Good morning and welcome to Ryder System  Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call [Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I now would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President of Investor Relation and Public Affairs for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Robert Sanchez President of Global Fleet Management Solutions and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Well thank you Bob.
And good morning everyone.
Today we'll recap our first quarter 2011 results review the asset management areas and discuss our current outlook for the business.
And after our initial remarks we'll open up the call for questions.
So let me get right into an overview of our first quarter results.
And on Page 4 for those following on the PowerPoint.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.50 for the first quarter 2011 up from $0.24 in the prior-year period.
The first quarter this year included a $0.01 charge for acquisition-related items.
Therefore excluding this charge comparable EPS was $0.51 in the first quarter 2011 up from $0.24 in the prior year.
First quarter EPS was also above our forecast range of $0.40 to $0.44.
Total revenue grew 17% from the prior year reflecting recently closed acquisitions higher fuel services revenue and organic revenue growth.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 14% due to acquisitions higher Commercial Rental activity and improved Supply Chain Solutions volumes.
On Page 5 in Fleet Management total revenue grew 11% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes a 26% increase in fuel services revenue reflecting higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 6% mainly due to higher Commercial Rental revenue.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and contract maintenance was up slightly.
Full Service Lease revenue increased 1% however this growth was largely offset by lower contract maintenance revenue.
Commercial Rental revenue grew 34%.
Rental revenue benefited from improving global demand higher pricing and an increase in the fleet size.
Net before tax earnings in Fleet Management were up 78%.
Fleet Management earnings as a percentage of operating revenue increased by 220 basis points to 5.4% -- in this the seasonally lightest first quarter.
FMS earnings were driven primarily by a stronger Commercial Rental performance and better Used Vehicle results.
FMS also realized a gain of $2.4 million on a facility sale and a small benefit due to acquisitions.
These improvements were partially offset by higher maintenance costs on an older leased fleet increased compensation expense and investments in sales and information technology initiatives.
On Page 6 turning to Supply Chain Solutions segment both total and operating revenues were up 36% due to the Total Logistic Control acquisition in December and increased trade volumes.
SCS net before tax earnings were up by 72%.
Supply Chain's net before tax earnings as a percent of operating revenue increased by 80 basis points to 3.7%.
Higher SCS earnings resulted from the TLC acquisition the improved operating performance and higher volumes.
In Dedicated Contract Carriage total revenue was up by 16% and operating revenue was up by 15% reflecting the Scully acquisition and higher fuel costs pass-throughs.
DCC's net before tax earnings were unchanged while earnings as a percent of operating revenue were down 80 basis points to 5.8%.
The earnings benefits from the Scully acquisition were offset by lower operating performance due to unusually high shutdown costs on closed locations and higher driver expenses.
Page 7 highlights key financial statistics for the first quarter.
I already discussed our quarterly revenue results so let me start with EPS.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $0.51 in the current quarter up by $0.27 or 113% from $0.24 in the prior year.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined by 1.7 million shares to 51 million.
During the first quarter we purchased 250 000 shares at an average price of $47.97 under our 2 million share anti-dilutive program.
This program remains active with approximately 1.2 million shares available at quarter end.
As of March 31 there were 51.3 million shares outstanding of which 51 million are currently included in the diluted share calculation.
The first quarter 2011 tax rate was 40.7%.
The tax rate was negatively impacted by $1.2 million due to a tax law change in Illinois.
The negative EPS impact from this item of $0.02 was included in both our reported and comparable earnings numbers.
The first quarter 2010 tax rate was 42.8% reflecting nondeductible items on lower relative earnings.
I'd like to turn now to Page 8 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the first quarter in each of the business segments and some of the key statistics I'll discuss here are also included in the Key Performance Indicators page in the earnings press release tables.
On Page 8 in Fleet Management Solutions Full Service Lease revenue grew 1%.
The average lease fleet size declined 2% from the prior year's first quarter but was up slightly on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter 2010 reflecting recent acquisitions.
Contract maintenance revenue was down 4%.
This reflects a 2% reduction in the average fleet count versus the prior year.
However it sequentially stabled with the fourth quarter's fleet count.
Lease pricing on new units has been and remains firm as we're focused on realizing appropriate long-term returns for investments made in this contractual product line.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on the U.S.
lease power units increased over the prior year for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Miles per unit were up by 3% versus the first quarter 2010.
We realized strong organic growth in Commercial Rental revenue of 34% from the prior year on an 11% larger average fleet.
We're continuing to see benefits from improved demand and greater usage of rental trucks due to the higher cost of new vehicles.
Given these factors we rented each vehicle for a greater number of days during the quarter resulting in higher utilization.
Global Commercial Rental utilization on power units was 72.5% up 390 basis points from 68.6% last year.
Global pricing on power units was up 12% accelerating from the 10% increase we saw in the fourth quarter.
In Fleet Management we also saw a stronger unit vehicle result during the quarter reflecting an improved environment and I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
The trend of higher maintenance costs on our older lease fleet continued during the first quarter.
Since customers replaced leased units at a slower-than-normal rate during the past 2 years the fleet has aged and therefore our maintenance costs are up.
As discussed on our last call we expect this trend to continue throughout the year.
In Supply Chain Solutions operating revenue was up 36% in the quarter with growth in all 4 industry verticals.
The strongest growth was in our newest vertical retail CPG due primarily to the TLC acquisition.
We also saw a very nice growth in the auto and high-tech sectors mainly due to increased volumes.
In Dedicated Contract Carriage operating revenue grew 15% due to the Scully acquisition and higher fuel costs pass-throughs.
Following year-over-year earnings declines in the prior 2 quarters DCC's earnings were stable this quarter.
Earnings benefited from the acquisition but were negatively impacted by unusually high shutdown costs on closed locations and higher driver expenses resulting from increased use of temporary outside drivers.
And at this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 9.
First quarter gross capital expenditures totaled almost $450 million which is up $172 million from the prior year.
Spending on lease vehicles was slightly down from the prior year reflecting the timing of vehicle deliveries and increased usage of rental vehicles to fulfill these contracts.
We expect lease capital spending to ramp up over the balance of the year.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was $317 million due to refreshment and growth of the rental fleet.
This was an increase of $175 million over the prior year.
Our full-year gross capital spending forecast remains on track with previously expected levels of $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion.
However the mix between lease and rental capital may vary depending on the amount of rental equipment used to fulfill new lease contracts.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $71 million that's up $22 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher used vehicle pricing partially offset by fewer units sold.
Including proceeds from sales net capital expenditures increased by $149 million to $377 million.
We also spent $84 million this quarter on acquisitions primarily related to the purchases of Scully and Carmenita.
We expect acquisition holdbacks of $20 million mainly from these 2 deals to be paid later this year.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of $218 million in the quarter that's down by $54 million from the prior year.
The reduction is primarily due to changes in working capital reflecting increased receivables on higher revenue.
We generated a little over $300 million of total cash for the quarter that's down by $32 million from the prior year.
Increased Used Vehicle sales proceeds partially offset the reduction in cash from operations.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by $113 million to $313 million reflecting increased rental vehicle purchases.
The company had $10 million of negative free cash flow for the quarter and this is in line with our recent full year forecast.
Free cash flow was down $146 million from the prior year's positive free cash flow due mainly to higher capital spending on vehicles.
On Page 11 total obligations of $2.9 billion are up $61 million as compared to year-end 2010.
The increased debt level is largely due to higher vehicle capital spending and recent acquisitions.
Balance sheet debt-to-equity was 195% as compared to 196% at the end of the prior year.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 202% that's largely unchanged from 203% at the end of the year and below our target range of 250% to 300%.
Our equity balance at the end of the quarter was over $1.4 billion that's up by $36 million versus year end 2010.
The equity increase was driven by earnings of $25 million currency translation adjustments of $24 million partially offset by dividends of $14 million and share repurchases of $12 million.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to provide an asset management update.
Thank you Art.
Page 13 summarizes key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our global Used Vehicle inventory for sale was 5 000 vehicles down by 1 800 units from the first quarter 2010.
The Used Vehicle inventory is only down 200 units sequentially from the end of the fourth quarter 2010 and remains below our target level.
We anticipate that this inventory will grow somewhat as the year progresses reflecting increased lease expirations and rental vehicle out-servicing.
We sold 4 100 vehicles during the quarter down 13% from the prior year due to our smaller inventory available for sale.
However sales were up 3% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
We saw a continued strength in Used Vehicle demand and pricing in the first quarter.
Improved demand is a result of both relatively better market conditions and the desire of some truck buyers to obtain pre-2010 engines.
Stronger demand combined with less available inventory in the market has allowed us to up price generally and to increase the proportion of retail sales were we realized better prices.
Compared to the first quarter 2010 proceeds per vehicle were up 42% on tractors and up 44% on trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 9% and truck pricing up 7% versus the fourth quarter 2010.
Going forward we expect continued strong used vehicle pricing in all classes with further improvements primarily in tractors.
At the end of the quarter approximately 7 400 vehicles were classified as no longer earning revenue.
This was down by 2 400 units or 24% from the prior year.
The decrease reflects fewer vehicles held for sale and better rental utilization.
As expected the number of lease contracts on existing vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term declined versus last year although it's still running somewhat above normalized levels.
The number of these lease extensions in the U.S.
for the quarter was down by almost 400 units or 19% versus the prior year.
This decline reflects an increase in new full-term lease contract sales instead of lease extensions by customers.
Early terminations of leased vehicles declined by almost 450 units or 33%.
Early terminations were roughly half what they were 2 years ago and were at the lowest level in at least 6 years.
This is a very positive indicator of improved lease demand.
Our average global Commercial Rental fleet during the first quarter was up by 11% from the prior-year period and in line with our plan.
Finally let me turn to Page 15 to cover our outlook and forecast.
In Fleet Management we expect organic strength in Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales to continue this year.
In Full Service Lease our sales results improved this quarter for both new business and fleet renewals.
We remain on track with our prior expectation that the number of leased vehicles on an organic basis will inflect and turn up starting in the second half of the year.
Including vehicles from recent acquisitions we expect that total leased fleet to be higher at year end versus the prior year.
In Supply Chain we anticipate continued benefits from our acquisition and from organic new sales versus the prior year.
Earnings will be negatively impacted however due to production cuts related to the Japanese disaster primarily with 1 significant automotive customer.
Based on currently available information we anticipate production to be at very low levels in the second quarter and then ramp up during the second half of the year with this customer.
However this outlook is subject to change as conditions develop.
Our forecast includes a $0.04 to $0.05 negative EPS impact in the second quarter and a $0.10 to $0.15 negative impact for the full year from this account.
Despite this impact we're still increasing our full year 2011 comparable EPS forecast from our previous range of $2.80 to $2.90 up to a new range of $2.90 to $3 an increase of $0.10 over our prior forecast.
Our new full year EPS forecast range represents a 31% to 35% improvement above last year's comparable EPS of $2.22.
We're also providing a second quarter EPS forecast of $0.72 to $0.77 versus the comparable prior-year EPS of $0.58.
This represents second quarter EPS improvement of $0.14 to $0.19 or a 24% to 33% increase.
And that does conclude our prepared remarks this morning and we'll move on now to our questions-and-answer time.
Due to the number of callers in queue I'll ask that you limit yourself to 2 or 3 questions each.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to get back in the queue and we'll take as many calls as we can.
So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Can you talk a little bit I guess starting off with Supply Chain Solutions to what the earnings revenue growth would've been excluding TLC? And then also in the 4 segments you mentioned that they all saw a nice growth is there 1 that you know outperformed the others? Yes I think there is a page in the appendix that covers that but I'll ask -- I'll turn it over to John Williford to comment.
I think it's 12% growth excluding the acquisition in SCS.
And I think by segment if you're looking globally by segment that is -- give me a second here -- in automotive automotive is 15% year-over-year growth.
High-tech is 10% and retail CPG excluded -- retail CPG you got to add the acquisitions up.
I'll give you the raw numbers for retail CPG it's 104% compared to 42%.
Oh yes 149% 149% growth in retail CPG.
Okay.
And then on the used truck pricing up 42% 44% year-over-year and up sequentially from the fourth quarter how far are we still from the prior peak levels of what you would see as kind of a more normal used truck market or what they have been in the past cycle? Robert do you know or Art how far we are away from the peak even with the growth we've had in those prices at 42% 44% respectively.
I think we're at least 20% below the peak still I’d say.
So we got a little way to go.
Yes and that would include that fact you've got some inflation in the vehicle investment too so.
And then Greg overall I mean it sounds like a pretty solid quarter -- everything or most things are going in the right direction.
But what disappointed you most in the quarter and what are you kind of focus on fixing that you didn't expect? Well I would say as a matter of perspective nothing truly disappointed me.
I think that there are things that happened in the world that you can't control.
I think the unfortunate devastation in Japan is a calamity of a human scale and is also business impact.
But you know you deal with the cards that you're dealt and you kind of face that and that's something that's an issue.
I think we look for the same thing that many of you look for.
And we predicted that by the second half of this year lease revenue lease units will actually increase.
And as we said in our comments the sales that have been going on in Fleet Management and the renewals that have been going on in Fleet Management we think were on track to deliver what we anticipated would begin to show up in the second half of the year but we're still waiting to see that.
So on a total unit basis we're up because of the acquisitions -- on the organic basis in those units they haven't turned yet.
But we're on a positive path we think to get that by the second half of the year which was exactly in our plan.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Greg we've heard from some of the large public trucking companies about weakness on the West Coast.
As you've expanded your presence out West did you see any of that weakness? I would have to say no.
I'll turn to Robert and see if he saw anything from his business segment but I have not heard that.
No we're not seeing that.
And again I don't know if it's a particular segment you might have heard that from? It's the truckload sector.
Yes.
No again the majority of our customers are not in the truckload business but no we haven't seen it with our customers.
And Greg in your Commercial Rental I think last quarter you talked about seeing extended rentals such as over the weekend are you still seeing that trend in Commercial Rental? I think the fact that utilization is up almost 400 basis points would suggest that customers are holding onto equipment longer than they did in the downturn.
And I think that clearly is the case to get that strong a utilization in the first quarter of the year which is always seasonally the weakest.
Okay.
And you talked about miles driven being up for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Could you comment on your April trends regarding miles driven? We don't have the numbers yet but generally we expect that the miles per unit to continue to be at the existing levels plus some rising throughout the year.
So we expect that to continue be strong.
Okay.
Well thank you for your time this morning.
I appreciate it.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I guess my first question is for John.
Did the $0.10 to $0.15 hedge because of the 1 particular customer in Japan -- adding that back because it looks like the underlying profitability at SCS is quite good am I not looking at that the right way? And if it's quite good x this 1 customer what are the 2 or 3 different things that are taking place in there? Yes I would say that the profit margins in SCS before this impact that we've been talking about are at or slightly ahead of what we would have expected and that that's really been across the board.
The TLC acquisition's gone well and that's performed at or slightly ahead of our expectations.
And we've seen decent volumes in both auto and high-tech.
So all parts of that business other than this 1 impact seemed pretty strong.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The lease fleet -- changing subjects the lease fleets that's rolling off is there anything unique about the composition of the customer base that you think is going to be rolling off for the near term relative to...
[Technical Difficulty] [Operator Instructions] LLC</strong> The lease fleet that's rolling off over the next 6 to 12 months is there anything unique about the composition of that fleet either the size of the customer that we need to be paying attention to as you bring new business on? I think if I understood the question is there anything different about the lease fleet that's rolling off in the next 12 months in terms of customers or anything like that.
No I think there's nothing unusual about it other than obviously we're in a year where there's a larger percentage from the high end if you will of the 15% to 20% of the fleet that terms out each year.
So we have -- we'll have more units terming out than the average but nothing unusual in terms of customer concentration or anything like that.
As you know we have a pretty well diversified customer base.
LLC</strong> Okay so it's not like you got an unusual number of small customers coming off and you also have a large percentage coming off correct? Yes.
No there's nothing unusual about the size of the customers' fleets or the size of the customers that are terming out.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
I'll get back in line.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I don't think you spoke to the spreads in the Leasing business.
Can you maybe just quantify what type of spreads are you writing incremental business at right now? Well Peter we don't get into the details of the returns but we are -- I think a way to look at them it is they're consistent with the returns that we have -- that we've written in the past.
And we target to be anywhere between 60 and 100 basis points above our cost of capital so we continue to be in that range.
Inc.</strong> And in your sales -- internal sales conversations what kind of color do you get from your customer base about what tips the scale to get the FMS business the New Lease Origination business starting to move a little more aggressively? Peter I think it's confidence in the economy and the sustainability of the growth in the economy and a rebound in the economy.
As customers begin to get more and more comfortable that's when you start to get a lot more requests.
Clearly as rental rates continue to move up that helps in the decision -making also but it's -- a lot of it has to do with just overall confidence in the sustainability of the recovery.
Inc.</strong> And I guess last question I think historically you might have talked about 80%-type capacity utilization to Commercial Rentals as sort of effectively full utilization.
Is that sort of still the number? Yes I think if you look at any seasonal periods -- so if we were in peak season in the third quarter 80% would be full utilization.
I think over a year -- a full year period you’re probably looking at something in the high 70s as really full utilization.
As you can see in the first quarter we had a very strong utilization quarter for this time of year and we were still in the low 70s.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is from Alex Brand with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> Greg I think you said the specific Q2 impact of Toyota versus the full year number but I missed it.
$0.04 to $0.05 for the second quarter $0.10 to $0.15 for the total 3 quarters remaining.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Now Greg I don't know how -- as I think about your comments about the gradual ramp-up of the FMS business is there something -- does this feel like a normal sort of gradual ramp or is there a point where we should expect that there's a release from Ryder 1 day that you've got a big order for some trucks for your lease customers or some sort of tipping point in time that we should expect to see? Your first part you said how do we feel about sort of the gradualness of this impact over time and it has been gradual.
I think that from Robert's comments earlier it's an issue of confidence relative to each customer.
Each customer attains their level of confidence in their own business relative to the economic growth and their confidence in their own business at different points.
So I think that's what's gradual.
The encouraging thing is that we find that there are more units being signed up now and a good renewal rate.
If it becomes a floodgate or a surge we'll know it in the results and you'll hear it from us.
But I think that we continue to see progress somewhat modest thus far but continuing to expect to accelerate over time.
Inc.</strong> All right and 1 more question if I could.
If I look at your guidance which is up sort of $0.10 for the year with another $0.10 or $0.15 impact so kind of underlying $0.20 $0.25 and I think about the waterfall chart you provided at year end where would that $0.20 to $0.25 come from? I would say that it would certainly come from Rental.
It would come from Used Vehicle sales and maybe better than expected performance on the acquisitions.
And a little bit in a few other places but those would be the big 3.
Inc.</strong> Good.
I appreciate the time guys.
Our next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> First Greg you had commented I guess last quarter and then I think you just mentioned it again rental rates and maybe rental rates moving higher starting to have some positive impact on customers moving over into a Full Service Lease.
Can you just talk a little to -- have you started to see any success from that initiative? And if not does that mean that there's room still to push rental rates higher? Yes and I'll disconnect a little bit.
We don't raise the rental rates just trying to move people in the lease.
We move rental rates based on the supply and demand of classes of vehicles and geographies.
The fact that rates go up may cause more customers to think about when do they make the decision.
So the fact is that with rental rates up 12% this quarter versus 10% last quarter whether they go up some more -- they might if demand continues to be heavier than the supply and if there's still freight to move and the economy is in decent shape that could certainly happen.
I think for lease it will be an issue more of long-term confidence and that's maybe the word of the day thus far on this subject is customer confidence.
I think the lease units will come from that customer confidence as opposed to just purely higher rental.
I'll let Robert comment if you'd like.
Yes.
I guess the only things John I'd add to that is that rental rates are coming up really from a pretty low bottom that rates went down over the last couple of years as demand softened.
So part of this is just getting rates back up to the levels that you need to in order to justify the investments in the fleet.
In addition to that we have the increased investment required for the new EPA 2010 technology that we're having to recapture also.
So I think as Greg articulated the rates are going up for -- because the rates needs to go up to justify the investment and because of the EPA 2010 a by-product of that or a consequence of that is that obviously for customers trying to make a decision on whether to continue renting or leasing it may accelerate that decision.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that explanation.
Also when you look at maybe some success that you are having on the lease side are you seeing a mixed shift between maybe there's more customers with a specialty equipment need re-upping now whereas maybe a customer that has just the need for standard equipment is not really willing to rent in this kind of environment? No I don't think there's any movement or proportion moving to specialized equipment.
I think that the vast majority of what we lease and are renewing are your standard tractors your standards straight trucks was -- Robert is there anything...
No we are seeing more activity if you will around sales during this last quarter across the board.
I think there's a lot more customers who are looking for quotes and a lot more customers that are active in the market today than there was let's say 3 to 6 months ago.
LLC</strong> And Greg recognizing that the Lease business is a late-cycle business and we probably are getting close -- you're seeing more activity and you've talked about it as being much of a contributor to the second half of your year than the first half so I get that.
But does this cycle feel even later than the normal cycle and does it go into that whole confidence thing that that the confidence hasn't rebounded with your customer base nearly as quickly as maybe it has in prior recoveries? I would say compared to prior recoveries the rebound is coming out at a much deeper chasm so that's part of the issue.
Many more customers affected in a much deeper way and therefore the willingness to make that next commitment is obviously being more thoughtfully and time-consuming conservative.
So I would say compared to past downturns which were not as deep the recovery was a little more swift.
I think because of the depth and the nature of this downturn and its recovery you have the same thing reflected in longer-term lease commitments.
And we still have a long way to go.
Look at the housing market look at current unemployment rates we still have a long way to go.
LLC</strong> All right very good.
Thanks for your time.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Our next question is from Jeff Kaufman with Sterne Agee.
Greg I just want to go back to an earlier question.
Did you notice any change in terms of the rental-to-lease conversions if we look at it geographically.
For instance we've heard that the economy has been a little bit stronger in kind of the farm belt a little bit weaker on the Coast.
When you look at your network geographically are you seeing any different behaviors? I'll let Robert comment.
I guess the only comment that I might have on that is that it clearly -- in parts of the country that housing and construction were bigger drivers of the economy clearly those areas you're not seeing the demand coming back as quickly as some of the other areas.
So if you look at parts of the southeast and parts of the southwest you are seeing in that those areas coming back slower.
But other than that I think I'm not sure it's a geographic issue more than it is a sector issue.
And then just 1 follow-up I know that the tax rate was a little bit higher on the Illinois change.
What should be thinking about in terms of full year tax rate are we thinking something in the low 40s or are we thinking something in the middle of 38s.
We had provided guidance at the beginning of the year that our comparable tax rate was I think around 38.5%.
As we sit here today we probably are still comfortable with that.
We may actually a little bit lower as we finish the year.
There is a little bit of seasonality in our tax rate if you will.
So it's typically lower in the back half of the year.
But I think overall right now we've looked at it probably low – mid- to low-38% for the full year.
Okay guys.
Congratulations and thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Wolfe with Wolfe Trahan.
Art can you take us through a little bit on the depreciation side you've got CapEx rising you've got used equipment values rising depreciation is coming down though.
How do we think about that and obviously the value of the tractor is going up so when you think about what the usual life and the end value of the tractor that's going up as well.
Can you talk about how we should we look at depreciation going forward with all of these cross turns? Okay maybe we can talk first about the first quarter.
The first quarter we had in line of what you're saying we had a -- in line of positive pricing we had lower write-downs at our used truck centers.
And it's about $7 million less this year than last year.
So that's a big driver of why you see depreciation dropping year-over-year.
Some of that is where from a comparability perspective we've carried a little fleet here for about a year.
We're going to start to catch that tail if you will to a certain extent.
So we don’t really see that benefit continuing as largely going for the balance of the year.
So in light of that with the increasing CapEx we would expect depreciation to start rising so that's kind of what we would forecast out as you start seeing depreciation be higher versus the prior year over the balance of the year.
So $206 million goes towards where -- gradually throughout the year towards $220 million? Right $220 million and up probably over the balance of the -- or the second half when you factor in a large amount of CapEx obviously.
Okay.
Second on the acquisition side I think John Williford said on the Supply Chain the internal growth would've been about 13%.
Can you give us similar numbers for what the different product lines would've been net of acquisitions? Can you look at Full Service and Rental and Dedicated? There was much less impact from acquisitions.
They're virtually de minimis.
So the Commercial Rental Used Vehicle sales FMS that was pretty much organic.
Okay that's helpful.
Right.
And then on the Dedicated side to add to your point about 10 points of the revenue growth probably is coming from the Scully acquisition.
Remember when we acquired that late in January so a good chunk of it is coming from there.
Thanks.
Okay and going forward then it's a little more than that because you didn't quite have it for the whole quarter is that the way to think about it? Yes.
And FMS is about 1 percentage point so -- for us mostly.
It’s 1% growth that was added by acquisition? Right.
Switching gears on Slide 13.
Greg I thought you said right at the end of the slide that -- and I lost track here a little bit but I think you're saying that vehicles no longer earning revenue were up 3% and that's a very good sign for future leasing.
Can you talk to that a little bit? And did I hear that right? I said for -- let me see let me go back to those specific words.
The early terminations? The early terminations declined by almost 450 units or 33% and that was roughly half of what they were 2 years ago.
So now we're at our lowest levels in at least 6 years.
And I said that was a very positive indicator of improved lease demand.
And then the early termination is when obviously you sign a five-year lease saying and somebody tries to cancel it earlier? Or their business may fail it may be some issue that came from the economy that caused them to go out of business.
There was a lot of that going on over the previous couple of years.
And there were a lot of extension as I recall as well.
Where are you in seeing people instead of renew extend? Extensions were down compared to where they were recently but still at a higher-than-normal rate.
And if you were able to flip eventually to the appendix which is on Page 23 you'll see that over the same period last year we had 2 088 extensions and this year we did 1 701.
So that's down from last year but still higher than the norm.
Okay.
So what is your read -- if you had to guess when -- I mean I think there's kind of a chicken or an egg here thing.
At some point your economy slows and rental slows and maybe it's 1 of those word sequels where the lease never catches or you would think the lease would start to catch.
And it sounds like you're starting to see some early signs of the lease starting to catch am I reading that right? What's your best guess on that? I think that's a fair terminology for what's occurred in new sales new customers and renewals.
I would say that lease is starting to catch.
And if -- in your opinion catching we would see -- in what? What would revenue look like next if it caught? Well I'm not in a position to forecast next year's.
We're not going to go out a year out.
We'll be able to do that after we see what we expect in the second half of this year.
Remember that the bulk of the revenue will impact 2012 more than 2011.
So if in fact things do occur as we see and as we predicted and the unit count goes up by the end of the second half of this year the revenue will go up in 2012 by comparison but we're not at a point of giving that forecast in the next year yet.
Last 1 -- I'll let someone have it are you seeing an increase in truckload carriers -- as customer they've been talking about capacity tighten up quite a bit recently? Predominantly no.
I think that they consider what they do to be core and so -- no not a lot of action there that would be unusual.
Okay.
Thanks for the time I appreciate it.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Most of my primary questions have been answered but any concerns about equipment supply going forward as things ramp up? What's your -- quoting to your customers on the potential delivery times has that changed at all recently? No it's -- I was just stretching out a little bit but we have pretty good terms with our suppliers in terms of slot dates.
And we agree to those at the beginning of the year and then are able to fill based on that.
Inc.</strong> Robert do you think that could actually provide you a competitive advantage as time wears on if things really start to pick up? Absolutely.
That's something that when things heat up certainly becomes a factor in our customers' decision-making.
It could be a driver to an in acceleration in the Full Service Lease revenue.
Sure.
That would be a factor.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
Yes 1 other thing I just want you to touch on.
I can't remember your comment on this but I know through the downturn you talked a lot about after going through the credit crisis we went through as we come out of that a lot of the customers that you couldn't touch in the past because they have their own ability to finance and they were kind of comfortable having that capital on their balance sheet would change as time wore on.
Are you seeing signs of that and are you seeing the pool of potential new customers grow to any significant degree? Really this first quarter is when we've really begun to see more activity in general in sales.
And certainly some of that is due to the fact that you got folks who historically maybe have purchased -- they're now looking at leasing as an alternative.
And I don't have any statistics on the details of why they're looking but certainly there's some anecdotal evidence out there that some of these folks are doing it or doing that as a way of helping them finance their fleet.
Inc.</strong> Great.
That's all I have for today.
Thanks for your time.
Our next question is from Matt Brooklier with Piper Jaffray.
So in your prepared remarks in the release you cited that you're adding to your sales headcount.
Maybe talk a little bit to that in terms of your adding to the sales force because of kind of current near-term demand being stronger on the Commercial Rental side or you're just trying to get ahead of I guess potential demand curve on the Lease side maybe just provide a little bit more detail? Yes it's really primarily on the Lease side.
Certainly as we look out over the next few years as we said before there's more units terming out and needing to be replaced in the next couple of years than average.
In addition to that we know that the general truck population in the marketplace has aged and there's probably more opportunity to capture market share than there has been in other years.
So we've made some investments in adding headcounts for our Lease sales.
We've also initiated some activities around inside sales so we're building up a group to do some inside sales which we're thinking also provides some longer-term benefits.
And those heads are in place or you're phasing those heads in now how should we think about that? As of the end of the first quarter the majority of the additional sales people are in place they were really ramping during the quarter.
And then inside sales will continue to evolve over the next several quarters.
Okay.
Fuel in the quarter obviously is spiking up.
We know that Ryder typically holds a -- kind of a fixed margin if you will -- what was the fuel impact from a margin basis year-over-year during first quarter? Yes the margin impact was not significant really Matt as you...
Was it kind of flattish? Was it a benefit? Was it a negative? Flattish.
Flattish okay.
And then I think a couple of years back there's the -- and then previous quarters you had seen a little bit of benefit but that doesn't sound like it was the case this quarter.
Last question your guidance being raised a portion of that is the strength at Commercial Rental -- you're getting better utilization you're getting better price how should we think about volume and the overall fleet? Is it time to start maybe pushing a little bit harder and adding more vehicles to the rental fleet versus what you were thinking about 3 months ago maybe talk to that.
No Matt we're not there yet.
As of the end of the first quarter about 55% of our incremental rental purchases -- or actually not our incremental -- our rental purchase had hit the ground.
So we still have quite a few units that will be coming in in the second quarter and certainly we're looking forward to those units hitting the ground and beginning to be utilized.
So we're watching it closely but we certainly are not at a point to say that we're going to add any more units beyond that.
Okay so there's no change in your kind of the thought process on what the rental fleet looks like at the end of '11? No the only play we have is if we may hang on to some units a little bit longer that we would have gotten out of earlier in the year.
That's the only play that -- or level we are considering now as we look at demand.
Okay.
Thanks for the time.
Our next question is from George Pickral with Stephens.
Greg you're talking about increasing demand for Used sales for Rental and now you're talking about maybe your Lease I think you said is catching.
Does that imply that maybe the Rental side could be re-leasing if you will that people are going to give up their short-term rental and move in to the lease? Or do you think that all 3 are kind of full steam ahead from here? Well I think all 3 can be strong and growing simultaneously because we still got a lot of catch up to do compared to the freight volumes that we were moving just a couple of years ago.
So since this was a long multi-year and deep downturn I think it's going to be a long multi-year upturn.
And for that reason when you had previously all those factors going down you certainly can have all factors going up.
They may not all be increasing at the same rate or at a stronger rate as in the recent past like Rental but yes they can be all growing.
And in fact the fundamental is that our rental fleet should be a fairly consistent proportion of the lease fleet because the rental units are there to also fulfill our promise and our value proposition to our lease customers and it's not just for occasional renters.
Got you.
And then along those same lines given the rise of fuel over the past couple of months given the rise of used vehicle prices and rental rates are you getting any pushback at all from customers on pricing or not? Not from customers who have freight to move.
Sounds good.
And then last question any thought you could or any color you could give on a potential I guess positive or negative impact that a rising interest rate environment could have on your core Leasing business? Yes based on our percentage of variable rate debt on our portfolio -- I guess we use a rule of thumb if you take a 1% change in interest rates that would increase our expense annually about $7 million.
So that's kind of the rough cut way to do it.
Okay great.
Thanks for the time guys.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
I was hoping if you could provide a little more detail on the better-than-expected performance among the acquisitions whether it was concentrated in 1 deal or another? And really what drove that better-than-expected performance here year-to-date? It's probably a combination of factors.
1 was we did just have better better operating performance on the accounts than what we have planned.
Also the integration costs associated -- this would be around really the Scully acquisition came in lower than we thought.
And then our net financing costs probably a little bit less than we had planned.
So if you look at it it's all 3 of those and then the split is probably 50-50 between both businesses -- I mean both acquisitions.
Okay good.
And then if we can look at DCC and margins in that segment volume or revenue is rebounding nicely and kind of nearing mid-2005 levels so we're still 200 basis points or so off of that 8% operating revenue target that you have highlighted in the past.
What is needed to get -- to drive margins back to those levels given some of the volume improvement that we've seen in that segment? John? Yes.
We pointed out 2 factors that were causing the reduction in margins one is driver costs and that impact probably peaked in August and September and has been gradually declining since then.
It still was a -- maybe a 0.4 impact in the first quarter and so -- and we expect that we'll be able to -- unless something unusual happens that impact will be gone by the -- either at the end of the second quarter or certainly by the third quarter.
And then the other impact was there were some closed locations both some -- a couple of lost customers and then some locations where existing customers changed their network and we had costs for moving around.
And same thing we expect that to kind of disappear.
So we should be back in the margin range that we've been talking about which is the 6% to 7% of operating revenue for DCC for the rest of the year.
Okay for 2011 and beyond do you think that the levels that you realized in those 7% or 8% are more -- are still attainable in that segment? Well I think we can do better than the 6% to 7% -- I'd rather not say exactly what that's going to be and get into 2012 and beyond.
But yes I definitely see us bringing the margin up directionally from the 6% to 7% that we're talking about for the rest of this year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And our final question today is from David Campbell with Thompson Davis &amp; Company.
I wanted to ask about the weather -- is there any weather impact or adverse impact from the auto production loss in the first quarter? No we really had no comment nor feel that there was any significant impact on weather.
We think weather happens every year winter comes every year and did again this year and we don't really talk much about it.
It's just something that occurs no specific impact.
If you were talking about the tsunami in Japan no material impact in the first quarter but we have forecasted a $0.10 to $0.15 impact on EPS for the last 3 quarters of this year.
Right.
And as far as the tsunami effect and the auto production loss in the second quarter why wouldn't that be offset by increased production in the last 6 months of the year? That is the $0.04 to $0.05 negative impact you're estimating in the quarter why wouldn't that be offset by higher production in the last 6 months? It's possible but the communication has been unclear as to the level of ramp- up.
We've commented and from what we've been led to believe there can be a ramp-up production later in the year but it's hard to tell how that will be spread around the world.
And before we got too optimistic we're going to maintain some conservatism in our forecast.
And you're assuming there's be another -- at least 5% -- $0.05 impact in the I suppose the third quarter from the auto production.
Well if you deduct the $0.04 to $0.05 from the second quarter in the last 2 quarters of the year we're looking at $0.06 to $0.10 in total.
So a $0.03 to $0.05 each quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
And this concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Swienton for closing remarks.
We'll thank you for everyone for joining the call.
We're a little over time we think we got everybody in with at least 1 question.
If you've got further follow-up you can get together -- give Bob Brunn a call in Investor Relations.
And thanks for being with us.
Have a good safe day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in the economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Robert Sanchez President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Today we'll recap our second quarter 2011 results.
We'll review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook for the business.
And after our initial remarks we'll open up the call for questions.
So let me begin with the overview of our second quarter results.
And for those of you following on the PowerPoint we're on Page 4.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.79 for the second quarter 2011 up from $0.58 in the prior year period.
The second quarter of this year included a $0.10 charge from a tax law change in Michigan and a $0.03 charge for transaction costs related to our recent acquisition of Hill Hire in the U.K.
Excluding these charges comparable EPS was $0.92 in the second quarter 2011 up from $0.58 in the prior year.
Second quarter EPS was also above our forecast range of $0.72 to $0.77.
The second quarter out-performance was driven by better Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales results.
The Japan disaster impacted the quarter negatively by $0.02.
However this impact was less than our forecasted estimate of $0.04 to $0.05.
The Hill Hire acquisition also contributed $0.02 to EPS in the quarter.
Total revenue grew 18% from the prior year.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 15%.
The growth in revenue reflects both the benefit of our recent acquisitions and organic revenue growth.
On Page 5 in Fleet Management total revenue grew 14% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes a 29% increase in fuel services revenue reflecting higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
FMS operating revenue which excludes the fuel grew 10% mainly due to higher Commercial Rental revenue and acquisitions.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and Contract Maintenance was up by 2%.
Full Service Lease revenue increased 3% while Contract Maintenance revenue declined 2%.
Commercial Rental revenue grew 38%.
Rental revenue benefited from improving global demand higher pricing and an increase in the fleet size.
Net before tax earnings in Fleet Management were up 46%.
Fleet Management earnings as a percent of operating revenue increased by 220 basis points to 8.7% in the second quarter.
FMS earnings were driven primarily by stronger Commercial Rental performance improved Used Vehicle results and the benefit of 4 FMS acquisitions closed in 2011.
These improvements were partially offset by higher maintenance costs on an older fleet increased compensation expense and planned spending on growth initiatives.
Turning to the Supply Chain Solutions segment on Page 6.
Both total and operating revenues were up 26% due to the Total Logistic Control acquisition in December higher volumes and new business.
SCS net before tax earnings are up by 37%.
Supply Chain's net before tax earnings as a percent of operating revenue increased by 50 basis points to 5.5%.
Higher SCS earnings resulted from the TLC acquisition higher volumes new business and favorable insurance claims development.
These improvements were partially offset by impacts from the disasters in Japan.
In Dedicated Contract Carriage total revenue was up 22% and operating revenue was up by 19%.
This growth reflects the Scully acquisition and higher fuel costs pass-throughs.
DCC's Net Before Tax earnings increased 16%.
The earnings benefits from the Scully acquisition and lower insurance costs were partially offset by some lower operating performance.
DCC's earnings as a percent of operating revenue were down by 20 basis points to 6.9% due to the inclusion of fuel cost in the operating margin calculation for the Dedicated segment.
Excluding fuel costs Dedicated margins would be up by 30 basis points.
Page 7 highlights key financial statistics for the second quarter.
I already discussed our quarterly revenue results so let me begin with EPS.
Again comparable EPS from continuing operations were $0.92 in the current quarter up by $0.34 or 59% from the $0.58 in the prior year.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined 1.3 million shares to 51 million.
During the second quarter we purchased 570 000 shares at an average price of $52.43 under our 2 million share anti-dilutive program.
This program remains active with 618 000 shares available at quarter end.
As of June 30 there were 51.1 million shares outstanding of which 51 million are currently included in the diluted share calculation.
The second quarter 2011 tax rate was 45.5%.
The tax rate was negatively impacted by a tax law change in Michigan which resulted in a $5.4 million catch-up charge related to prior periods.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate would be 37.7% in the second quarter of 2011 versus 41.4% for the prior-year.
The decline in the comparable tax rate versus the prior year is due to a higher proportion of the amount of earnings in lower tax jurisdictions and lower contingent tax accruals.
Page 8 highlights key financial statistics for the year-to-date period.
Operating revenue increased 15%.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $1.43 improving by 74% from $0.82 in the prior year.
Excluding the Michigan tax law change I discussed earlier the comparable tax rate was 38.8% in 2011 versus 41.8% last year.
Adjusted return on capital which is calculated on a rolling 12 month basis was 5.3% versus 4.2% in the prior year as growth and earnings outpaced growth and capital.
We are now forecasting full year adjusted ROC of 5.6% a 40 basis point improvement over our prior forecast.
I'd like to turn now to Page 9 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the second quarter in each of the business segments.
In Fleet Management Solutions full service lease revenue grew 3%.
The average lease fleet size grew 0.6% from the prior year's second quarter and was up 1.3% on a sequential basis versus the first quarter 2011 reflecting recent acquisitions.
We acquired 1 900 power units and 6 100 trailers in the Lease Product line as part of that Hill Hire acquisition that closed on June 8.
Including this units acquired late in the quarter the ending lease fleet was up 7% versus the second quarter last year and also up 7% sequentially from the first quarter 2011.
Financial returns on new lease contracts signed remained firm as we're passing along higher vehicle investment costs and lease rates.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
leased power units were unchanged from the prior year but seasonally increased by 3% from the first quarter this year.
Contract maintenance revenue declined 2%.
This reflects a 2% reduction in the average fleet count versus the prior year.
However it's sequentially unchanged from the first quarter's fleet count.
We realized a very strong growth in Commercial Rental revenue of 38% from the prior year.
The average rental fleet increased 16% excluding acquisitions and was up by 19% including the 5 500 rental units acquired from Hill Hire late in the quarter.
The Hill Hire rental fleet included 2 100 power units and 3 400 trailers.
Even with the increase in the rental fleet size during the second quarter global utilization on rental power units continued to improve and was at 78.7% up 100 basis points from the 77.7% last year.
Global pricing on power units was up 11% this quarter.
In Fleet Management we also sold stronger Used Vehicle results during the quarter reflecting a continued strong demand environment.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few moments.
The trend of higher maintenance costs on our older lease fleet continued during the second quarter.
Since customers replaced leased units at a slower than normal rate during the past couple of years the fleet has aged and therefore our maintenance costs are up.
As outlined in our business plan we expect this trend to continue throughout the year.
In Supply Chain Solutions operating revenue was up 26% in the quarter primarily due to the TLC acquisition as well as higher volumes across all industry sectors and new business.
These benefits were partially offset by the impact from the natural disasters in Japan.
In Dedicated Contract Carriage operating revenue grew 19% due to the Scully acquisition and higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
Earnings benefited from the acquisition and favorable insurance claims development but were partially offset by lower operating performance.
We've seen a reduced impact from driver wages which was more of an issue in the second half last year.
Overall we've had fewer open driver positions both because driver availability has improved somewhat in the market and we've successfully implemented some internal initiatives in the area.
Page 10 highlights our year-to-date results by business segment.
And in the interest of time I will review these results in full detail but will just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $74.2 million up by 71% from the $43.5 million in the prior year.
And at this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 11 year-to-date gross capital expenditures totaled $880 million which is up $250 million from the prior year.
Spending on lease vehicles was up $25 million from the prior year reflecting improved sales and higher investment cost on new vehicles.
We expect lease capital spending comparisons to ramp up over the balance of the year.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was $518 million reflecting both refreshment and planned growth of the rental fleet.
This was an increase of $224 million over the prior year.
Our total full year capital spending forecast remains on track with previously expected levels.
As compared to our original forecast we anticipate some movement of reported lease capital in the rental capital.
This reflects our asset management strategy of using mid-life rental trucks to fulfill new lease contracts.
The activity under this program will be at a somewhat higher rate than planned and reported rental capital will reflect the new trucks we're ordering to backfill the vehicles used for lease sales.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue-earning equipment of $143 million.
That's up $39 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher used vehicle pricing partially offset by fewer units sold.
Including proceeds from sales net capital expenditures increased by $211 million to $737 million.
We also spent $349 million year-to-date on acquisitions primarily related to purchases of Hill Hire and Scully.
We expect acquisition holdbacks of $16 million on these deals to be paid later this year.
We closed the acquisition of Hill Hire in the U.K.
on June 8.
We paid approximately $252 million for this deal which added around $147 million in annual revenue and expands our fleet offering in the heavy duty vehicle market.
This transaction has nice synergies for us and we anticipate good earnings accretion as Greg will comment on later.
We're also pleased with the pricing on this transaction which resulted in no goodwill recorded for Ryder.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of $473 million year-to-date down by $58 million from the prior year.
The reduction is primarily due to changes in working capital reflecting increased receivables on higher revenue and a decline in accrued liabilities compared to the prior year.
We generated $646 million of total cash year-to-date.
That's down by $22 million from the prior year.
Increased Used Vehicle sales proceeds partially offset the reduction in cash from operations.
Cash payments for CapEx increased by $273 million to $817 million primarily reflecting increased rental vehicle purchases.
Company had year-to-date negative free cash flow of $172 million.
Free cash flow was down $295 million from the prior year's positive free cash flow due mainly to higher planned capital spending on vehicles.
At the midpoint of our 4 year forecast we now expect free cash flow of negative $215 million as compared to our prior forecast of negative $265 million.
The improvement in our free cash flow expectation reflects increased earnings and higher prices on Used Vehicle sales.
On Page 13 total obligations of approximately $3.3 billion are up $480 million as compared to year end 2010.
The increased debt level is largely due to recent acquisitions and higher vehicle capital spending.
Balance sheet debt-to-equity was 222% as compared to 196% at the end of the prior year.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 228% up from 203% at the end of 2010.
We now anticipate our total leverage ratio to be 220% at year end up from our prior forecast of 207%.
This increase was driven by the impact of the Hill Hire acquisition.
Including acquisitions completed to date our forecasted leverage remains below our target range of 250% to 300%.
Our equity balance at the end of the quarter was almost $1.5 billion.
That's up by $55 million from year end 2010.
The equity increase was driven by earnings and to a lesser extent currency translation adjustments.
And these were partially offset by dividends and net share repurchases.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes the key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our Global Used Vehicle inventory for sale was 5 000 vehicles down by 900 units from the second quarter of 2010.
The Used Vehicle inventory is unchanged sequentially from the first from the end of the first quarter in 2011 and does remain below our target level.
We sold 4 400 vehicles during the quarter down 6% from the prior year due to our smaller inventory available for sale.
However sales were up 7% sequentially from the prior quarter.
We expect the number of vehicles sold in the second half to be consistent with our first half sales levels.
We saw continued strength in Used Vehicle demand and pricing in the second quarter.
Improved demand is a result of both relatively better market conditions and the desire of some truck buyers to obtain pre-2010 engines.
Stronger demand combined with less available inventory in the market has allowed us to up price generally and to increase the proportion of retail sales where we realized better prices.
Compared to the second quarter 2010 proceeds per vehicle were up 41% on tractors and up 31% on trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing increased 6% and truck pricing was 3% higher versus the first quarter 2011.
Going forward we expect strong continued Used Vehicle pricing in all classes.
At the end of the quarter approximately 7 100 vehicles were classified as no longer earning revenue.
And this was down by 900 units or 11% from the prior year.
The decrease reflects fewer vehicles held for sale.
As expected the number of lease contracts on existing vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term declined versus last year and although it's still running somewhat above normalized levels.
The number of these lease extensions in the U.S.
for the quarter was down by almost 700 units or 16% versus the prior year.
This decline reflects an increase in new full-term lease contract sales instead of lease extensions by customers.
Early terminations of leased vehicles declined by 600 units or 26%.
Early terminations were less than half what they were 2 years ago and were at the lowest level in at least 6 years.
This is a very positive indicator of improved lease demand.
Finally let me turn to Page 17 to cover our outlook and forecast.
In Fleet Management we expect organic strength in Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales to continue this year.
In Full Service Lease our sales results have improved so far this year for both new business and fleet rentals.
We remain on track with our prior expectation that the number of leased vehicles on an organic basis will inflect and turn up in the second half.
Including vehicles from recent acquisitions our lease fleet has already significantly grown.
In Supply Chain we anticipate continued benefits from the TLC acquisition and from organic new sales versus the prior year.
The impact of the Japan disasters will be negative to SCS earnings but to a lesser extent than previously anticipated.
In the second quarter we saw a $0.02 impact from the Japan tsunami compared to our prior forecast of $0.04 to $0.05.
Given current production estimates we now expect a full year negative impact of $0.04 to $0.05 in EPS as compared to our prior estimate of $0.10 to $0.15.
The Hill Hire deal which was closed in early June added around $0.02 to second quarter EPS.
For the full year 2011 this acquisition is forecasted to add approximately $0.12 to $0.17 to EPS for the almost 7-month period of operations with Ryder.
We've seen continuing strength in Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales into early July and are expecting improved results in these areas relative to our prior outlook.
We also expect a modest improvement in leased results as the impact of fleet aging is somewhat less than previously forecast.
Given the benefits of Hill Hire a lower impact from the Japan disaster and improvements in our transactional businesses we're increasing our full year 2011 comparable EPS forecast from a previous range of $2.90 to $3 to a new range of $3.33 to $3.43 which represents an increase of $0.43 over our prior forecast.
Our new full year EPS forecast range represents a 50% to 55% improvement above last year's comparable EPS of $2.22.
We're also providing a third quarter EPS forecast of $0.98 to $1.03 versus a comparable prior year EPS of $0.76.
This represents third quarter EPS improvement of $0.22 to $0.27 or a 29% to 36% increase.
That does conclude our prepared remarks this morning.
We're going to now move to questions and answers.
Due to the number of callers always in queue I'll ask that you limit yourself to 2 questions each.
If you do then have additional questions you're welcome to get back in the queue and we'll take as many calls as we can.
So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Greg in looking through your presentation you had your normal bar chart in here that showed extensions and terminations and that type of thing.
It looked like your early terminations and some things like that had really reached kind of the lowest level in several years.
And I'm just curious is this the inflection point you've been looking for on the lease side? Should we expect just start seeing growth on the number of vehicles under lease on a go-forward basis from here? Thanks for your question or comments John.
in fact for those of you who've got the PowerPoint you're referring to the Appendix on Page 29 which among other things does show the early terminations and the extensions.
I would say the early terminations may be a reflection of an improved economy but I think it makes your point.
What also makes your point is the reduction in the extensions.
That means that rather than extending units I think we're seeing more customers who now are committing for new leased equipment.
So I'd say your comment is right but I would add both of those bar charts on early terminations and extensions.
LLC</strong> So what you're saying is we should anticipate that's the indication that we've kind of hit that inflection point on the number of vehicles in the lease fleet? Yes and I think it's a matter of degree and I think it's a matter of timing and ramp up.
So unless impacted by other external forces like what's going on in Washington and confidence level and freight to move all other things being equal yes I think we're seeing the point that we predicted in the business plan for the second half of this year.
LLC</strong> And then in terms of along the same lines now that we're starting to see the extensions come down and things like that is this the point where we should start to see more new equipment showing up in the lease fleet and as a result we should begin to see maintenance cost moderate from here? Right.
That's correct.
Now of course that takes time to feather in.
But directionally that's exactly what you should expect to happen.
Our next question is from Alex Brand with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> So Greg I just want to follow up on John's question.
If we're going where we need to go we're going to get more full-term lease contract business how should we think about as we move into maybe next year and if the pattern is what we hoped isn't the margin on the rental fleet a little higher? So as you shift into the longer-term contracts is there a transition period there that we need to sort of worry about? Or is it all incremental as you look out? Well the areas of improvement yet that we'd begun to see but expect more of FMS NBT as a percent of op revenue in this quarter was 8.7%.
You may recall that at our peak it was 12.8% to 13%.
So we have a lot of things there are a lot of moving parts in the segment.
So it's not as quite as simple as a rental and lease trade off.
But we expect during a period of still uncertain but improvement in the economy over time improvement in housing probably getting to a more reasonable employment level all of the things that have to add up over a multiyear bumpy erratic period that all of those factors should move positively in a good direction.
And we believe that when all of those are not only in recovery but we're now taking advantage of our strengths our initiatives our sales force activity our technology deployment as well as our acquisitions we expect that that all can move in concert positively.
Inc.</strong> And when I think about where your guidance is going now I mean I hear you saying that lease is improving.
But it looks like most of your guidance doesn't really have anything to do with the core Lease business as you raised that guidance.
And I also haven't heard you guys talk about really the meaningful step ups in CapEx for the core lease fleet yet either right? Well the big pick ups the reason that we've raised our forecast the big items that make a difference and we've tried to highlight those so that's clear continuing strength in the transactional Commercial Rental Used Vehicle sales the acquisition the less negative impact from things like the Japanese tsunami.
But yes you can't say that there's robust growth yet that's showing up on the revenue line the earnings line in the EPS from lease sales.
That takes time.
First you start getting the sales then you got to place the orders and you got a 3 4 month lag so that's not going to show up substantially until the end of this year and then ultimately in EPS.
But as that becomes a larger portion of the revenue stream and the earnings stream that's solid and that's good for years.
Our next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Greg kind of along Alex's lines.
When I look at your guidance raise it seems like barring an economic collapse you're in a sweet spot.
And maybe what we're seeing this cycle it could elongate the cycle and the timing of a new leasing cycle is uncertain but Commercial Rental is carrying the day.
Is that -- maybe this cycle is a little bit different and could actually be elongated compared to past cycles because of the uncertain economic environment? Yes it certainly can.
And that's been our experience on this slow recovery generally in the last couple of years.
We're not at any point now ready to say that we're not going to continue the lease sales.
Part of it is economic recovery and part of it is us.
Part of us is our value proposition.
Part of us is making sure that we provide real value to customers who might want to consider Full Service Lease or standalone maintenance.
All of those things in addition to our ability to have been in so strong a financial position and a balance sheet position to do acquisitions all of that may tilt what your past comparisons may be for our recovery.
So we think we're a little bit different.
A lot of it a lot of this recovery clearly is stronger than others in transports right now.
But we think that's because of what we have done during the downturn to improve our business model and improve our position.
But there is nothing better than economic recovery.
And let me follow up.
You talked about acquisitions and your balance sheet's in great shape and I think you've made 5 acquisitions since December.
How's the M&amp;A pipeline look today? Is it still pretty strong? Probably the answer is the same that we've given you for the last several years.
We continue to have great interest.
And it's just a matter of timing.
And you never know when a bunch of them hit.
And they did.
Right at the end of last year going into this year and that's been a nice pick up.
So we continue to be interested.
We continue to be capable.
But it all depends on willingness timing for other parties where we've got a good fit.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Terrific results especially given the macro backdrop that we're all dealing with right now.
I guess my question is I definitely hear you on the late cycle leverage.
A lot of that still ahead of us and it could be very powerful.
On the flip side though I mean most of the strength of this cycle to date has been the short cycle businesses: Commercial Rent Used Truck sales now Acquisition.
If we go into an air pocket here in terms of macro growth how do you guard yourself against losing the momentum in the short cycle businesses and losing some of that earnings momentum before some of the later cycle leverage kicks in? Well I'd say one argument is that in our sales proposition and I'll just focus on FMS for the moment which I think your question is primarily oriented toward.
Even in an environment which might be worsening or not really improving we also have to think about the rest of the parts of the macro environment.
We think that the outsourced value proposition that we offer continues to be more compelling now than even in the recent past.
So with increasing cost increasing complexity of new equipment and new technologies that have to be deployed we believe that our approach and our value to potential customers actually strengthens.
In addition whether you have even more of a financial crisis than we've had in the recent past access to capital is still available from us.
And many customers as we've been seeing even who are healthy now have been more inclined to put their own capital to use in their own core business as opposed the tangential activities that they need like in logistics and supply chain and distribution and transportation and utilize outsourced services.
So even though -- you could try to guess and model out downturns and economies and impacts I still think that during this period and going forward we've got a value proposition that I think matches what some of the macro economic issues are.
In addition when you see us doing things like adding new services that hadn't been provided before that has a lot of customer interest right now like natural gas heavy duty vehicles these are again new sources of opportunity for growth.
So we're going to keep pushing the innovation and growth theme because we think we're in a leadership position.
We're going to keep doing it and not just think about some of these negative economic potential issues that obviously we can only react to and not necessarily influence or drive.
Inc.</strong> And as a follow-up question on the balance sheet is there a way of gauging what percent of your funding structure renews over the next 3 to 4 quarters or so? I'll ask our Chief Financial Officer to get that handy.
We don't have a ton Peter of debt maturing over the next year.
I want to say it's a couple hundred million dollars.
We have a medium term note renewing then.
If you look at the makeup of our mix of debt we're about now about 40% of our debt is variable rate debt so it reprices relatively on a short-term basis.
So that's a little bit higher than we have been.
And it can drive -- if you get an increase in interest rates it can impact the results.
But other than that we're 40% variable now 60% fixed.
Our next question is from Jon Langenfeld with Robert W.
Baird.
Ben Hartford in for John this morning.
First question Greg you had talked about the delta between FMS margins today and the previous cycle.
I wanted to get your sense on what the drivers are to that.
You had talked about maintenance being a key driver.
Is there anything beyond maintenance? I mean you look at the book of business you look at the revenue base you're at levels comparable to '04 '05.
But you're dealing with a delta of 400 to 500 basis points there on the margin.
So as we get to organic lease fleet growth over the course of the next 18 months and the lease fleet age falls is that the key driver? Is that the only driver between margins today and margins at the previous peak? If you look at the major drivers and I'll just highlight 4 of them and if I missed some I'll ask Robert Sanchez or Art Garcia to fill in others.
If you look at the major differences in the EPS drivers especially as it relates to FMS when we were at peak in 2008 it came from Commercial Rental Used Vehicle sales including carrying costs and depreciation all the rest from a leasing downturn as well as our non-operating expense of the pension cost.
Because even though the pension is grandfathered and/or frozen going forward we still have a tail there and that was a big impact in EPS and where the market closed in 2008.
So of those you mentioned 2 are largely restoring.
That's Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales.
But pension and the leasing earnings are not there yet.
So I'd say those are the big ones.
Those are still yet to be restored why we have confidence that we'll get back to the other NBT levels when all 4 have converted.
If I've missed any others Robert or Art you could comment.
I guess the only thing I would add to that is the size of the power fleet also needs to come back because all of the overall fleet now with the acquisition that includes trailers has gotten us back up to those levels.
The power fleet is still down about 5 000 units.
So you still have growth in there that we need in order to fully restore and get back to the levels that we're at.
So we need the fleet to get newer and you need it to get bigger.
Right and as a follow-up around pension.
Pension expense increased about $0.75 from '08 to '09.
And we're only about halfway back on that.
And that's really a function to Greg's point about asset returns and where pension assets are.
And then second on the acquisition synergies it looks like they're trending better than expectations.
I wanted to get your sense for what's driving that whether it was just conservatism upfront whether there's something unique about the targets that you've been able to acquire whether you guys are one of the few actively in the marketplace that seems from a publicly traded company standpoint? Or is it better integration? Or maybe all of the above? Can you talk a bit about why the synergies have trended better than expectations? Well there's a lot of those if not all of the above.
I would say that the smaller acquisitions other than Hill Hire we have always been able to integrate those as well in North America.
And they've always been somewhat accretive.
But you probably figure a few cents in every one and let me do our waterfall charts that's the way that it would show up.
The one that became more substantial this year was Hill Hire.
That was really the first one done over in the U.K.
We had a great buying price.
And there's no goodwill as we mentioned earlier in the call very attractive returns.
There are logical synergies.
We think it's good for customers good for the large proportion of employees who are working operationally in conjunction with us.
And it's going to work well.
So that's why we pointed out that probably beyond most expectations until we just spelled it out for this year which is only a little over 7 months for Hill Hire alone is $0.12 to $0.17 in EPS and it's going to continue being accretive next year as well.
Our next question is from David Ross from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> On the FMS side of things I was talking to a private fleet operator the other day.
He said it's now cheaper for him to get a Full Service Lease from Ryder for all of his new trucks that he's adding to the fleet than to buy it himself and do the maintenance on it with their maintenance infrastructure.
I guess because your cost of capital is so low and you have significant scale economies in purchasing.
How many people out there do you think know that this is now the case that may not have been the case before? And then is there -- are you seeing any change in terms of your mix who's signing Full Service Leases that may not have signed them before who's renting now that may not have been renting before? I'm going to turn that over to Robert for a little bit more detailed info for you.
David I guess at the end of the call I'd probably ask you for the name and number of that private owner you were talking about.
I think to answer the question we are seeing an increased interest from the ownership side.
And we're also seeing increased -- an improvement in our ability to win those deals.
So those 2 are 2 very positive things that we're seeing in our sales.
I'd tell you they're still not -- this doesn't move the needle significantly.
But we are seeing an upturn in interest from private fleet owners as they look at the economics of having to go out and borrow the money to buy their own trucks and do their own maintenance on more complex technology versus turning to somebody like Ryder who has the capital available has the better pricing on the equipment and can perform the maintenance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And what about actual carriers rather than private fleet other for-hire carriers? Are they showing any more interest than in the past? No.
I think on the for-hire carriers as Greg mentioned some of the innovation initiatives that we have one of the things that we're looking at is providing more transactional-type maintenance for some of these companies.
And we're finding that you do get more interest from carriers on that type of activity.
They typically want to continue to do some of the maintenance activity.
But in geographies where they're not present they are looking for partners that can help them with that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> One question for John on the Supply Chain Solution side of things is the mix of I guess profitability or business much different now after the TLC acquisition than prior? I guess if you could talk about maybe the breakdown between transportation management contract logistics other services and product management? Yes the primarily difference is where we've got a stronger CPG less dependent on the more cyclical automotive sector.
The TLC acquisition was -- the revenue was mostly CPG warehousing.
And so it's also strengthened our Warehousing segment.
And it's given us a nice group of customers that we can grow with where the business is pretty stable.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc.
Greg can you talk about the expectation for the size of the rental fleet into the back half of the year? I know there's been some acquisitions and it sounds like you're going to be moving some vehicles to sell.
I just want to get an idea of how we should be thinking about the average size of the Commercial Rental fleet in the third and fourth quarter.
Again I'll turn over to Robert to give you a little bit more detail.
But we've been adding to the fleet this year both by our own capital investment as well as the acquisitions.
I don't know that there is much more equipment to already arrive.
I think what we want to make sure we watch how it plays out is how is demand? How is the economy looking? How is pricing? And right now we think we've got that right size but we would evaluate for the rest of the year based on anything else we might see.
In terms of the fleet size numbers I think Robert may have that if you'd like to comment.
Yes Todd at the beginning of the year we said that our goal was to be up 10% year-over-year on the power fleet for renting.
We're going to come in right around that number plus the acquisition units.
But we're still on track to be up around maybe 10% maybe a little bit higher.
Maybe when you average it out we might be up 11% or 12% plus the acquisition units.
And then Robert the way that it should work is roughly in the third quarter maybe flat sequentially with the second quarter but then drift a little bit lower into the fourth quarter to reflect the seasonality? That's correct.
That's correct.
We ended the second quarter a little bit higher than what we had planned maybe a couple of percentage points.
And that was just due to the fact that we're holding some of the vehicles we would otherwise out service themselves because of the strong demand.
But as we get into the fourth quarter those units will start coming out.
Okay great.
And just as a follow-up the change in lease miles driven on a per day basis being flat here year-over-year in the quarter and I think this is the first quarter they've been flat in maybe 4 or 5 quarters.
I think if I remember correctly there's a variable revenue component associated with that.
Looking to the back half and some concerns about maybe the strength of the recovery or the pace of the recovery how have you factored in the variable component related to miles driven on the lease fleet into the back half guidance? The assumption we've made on the guidance is that it continues at about the pace that it's at today.
There's some seasonal activity that happens that we've work in.
So we are not assuming that there's a significant rise from the current levels.
It is something that we're watching as you look at all of the indicators that we watch.
That's probably the only one where you're seeing something that maybe isn't growing at the clip that we would like it to see it grow.
But it's still a much healthier level than it was over the last several years.
So not at the peak in terms of miles per unit yet but still at a pretty good pace.
So there's other things that can be impacting it.
Customers have begun to utilize their fleet and have been using rental more.
So some of that could be impacting us getting to the peak levels.
Okay that makes sense.
And just to be clear I mean if you continue to see the trend the way it is basically you have that to a certain extent factored into the guidance with how it's setup right now? Yes we do.
Your next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Could you maybe talk a bit about Supply Chain and Dedicated the year-over-year growth? I'm curious how much of that is new business wins and how much of that is increased activity with existing customers.
I'll just let John Williford cover that.
Well you kind of tease out the different impacts Anthony.
I think we would just do supply chain and you were to take out the tsunami impact and the acquisition impact then we have operating revenue growth of about 10%.
And I would say that is about -- I've given you a ballpark about 50-50 net new sales and organic revenue growth.
LLC</strong> I understand that there's an estimate on that.
It's very helpful.
How about the Dedicated? On the DCC side basically -- well if you exclude the impact of fuel then more than all of our growth has come from the Scully acquisition.
So our dry revenue in DCC is actually down about 2.7% ex Scully.
And that's really -- we have net new sales in there and a slight decline in existing business because of a couple of big customers whose volumes were down.
LLC</strong> And then maybe a little bit of color on what the backlog looks like there.
Obviously despite the squishy in concerning second half we're all staring at capacity.
Recently for-hire markets seems quite tight.
Some of the for-hire carriers dedicated business has been fairly decent recently.
So I'm curious what your backlog looks like there.
Yes we've had -- in DCC we had very strong sales months.
We had poor sales in January and February and then very strong sales months in March through June.
And we have a very strong pipeline.
LLC</strong> How does that fall? Is that sort of a 60 to 90 day once you close the sale that they start to show up? Yes.
There's probably a 60 to 90 days to close the sale or to win or lose the bid.
And then there's a ramp-up period of another 60 days or so to bring on new business.
LLC</strong> And I guess related to Dedicated I think recently you had some struggles on the driver front there.
But I thought I heard someone say that the driver situation has improved.
And I'm wondering what magic you're working there because that sounds like great news.
Yes you're right.
The driver shortage really hasn't abated.
We've just put a lot of focus on it.
We started reporting on this in the second half of last year when we saw kind of a quick spike in the number of leased drivers we had to have.
And so we really put a focus on recruiting and put a few new programs and then really have dramatically cut the number of days on average that it takes us to fill in an opening.
And so the impact on leased drivers has really almost completely gone away.
And we would expect that to be really almost a 0 and certainly year-over-year 0 impact going forward.
Our next question is from Ed Wolfe with Wolfe Trahan.
I just want to make sure I'm looking at this right.
If I back into $0.20 or so on an annual basis for Hill Hire it implies about a 12% pretax margin relative to where you're at in FMS this quarter around 8%.
And am I thinking about that right? Is there some synergy built in? Or is it just a higher margin business at this stage.
That would include the benefits of synergies as well as the purchase price and the financing on that transaction.
But I am thinking about that right? Right now that's a higher margin business for you? Yes.
Second Greg you took us through Slide 29 with the U.S.
asset management update in terms of talking about why you saw some potential for the leasing maybe to show some life in the second half.
I'm sorry I just didn't catch what you were focusing on.
Can you do that again? Yes the original question that we went to the appendix on Page 29 was about early terminations but I extended the answer to also include extensions.
The fact that both terminations early terminations as well as extensions were down was a good sign that when equipment came due customers in particular weren't either giving up because they didn't need the equipment or they weren't just extending.
The lack or the reduction in extensions was a reflection of the fact that they now had enough confidence and/or freight to move that those will be coming actual new leases with new equipment.
So we think that that snapshot is a good good sign for future lease sales revenue and earnings.
Is there's something on the slide that if it starts to go up would be positive like early replacements or redeployments? Or are those -- what do expect there? There will be some movement around early replacements.
But that should stay fairly low as that chart would indicate.
Redeployments might mean that if that goes up we're having to be a little bit more creative because you don't have your natural model movement to the Used Truck sales or you're moving them between coming out of service or being extended into DCC.
So as that's kind of reduced and leveled off that's just fine.
I think the expectation of all of these again would be the extensions and the early terminations.
Extensions are still high by normal standards.
But as those come down that means those customers are selecting and asking us to get them new equipment which is a good sign.
Last question Commercial Rental at 78%.
What's kind of the practical peak utilization as you look at that? Well probably in some places we're at it.
It depends on what -- is there anything less in some yards.
That means that some locations are pretty pretty low on equipment.
But Robert if you'd like to further comment on it.
Yes there's some seasonality there.
But I think we're at the levels now where certainly for this quarter your rent level's where I would say is the target and at a peak.
And while I still have you on I think Art had one other follow-up point on your earlier question about Hill Hire Ed.
Yes Ed around the benefits in the accretion from Hill Hire one point I wanted you to make sure you're aware of is Hill Hire is based in the U.K.
We have a lower corporate tax rate there.
The corporate tax rate in the U.K.
is 28% versus the high 30s that we have here on a global basis.
So that also adds a little bit of accretion to the transaction.
Right direction for the U.S.
government I would say.
Your next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
It's actually Kanchana Pinapureddy in for Jeff.
I just had one quick question for you.
Could you talk a little bit about the spread between new contracts and your cost of capital now versus what's coming off of lease? Robert you want to comment? Yes Kanchana.
What we stated publicly is that we target 60 to 100 basis point spread.
And without getting into a lot of the detail we're certainly getting that in this environment.
So we're happy with the pricing.
The pricing that we're getting is slightly better than what we had expected at the beginning of the year so that's just another indication that the environment certainly is strengthening and we've got a good sales pipeline.
Our next question is from Matt Brooklier with Piper Jaffray.
This question's for John.
Curious as to how far along you are in terms of integrating TLC at this point in time.
Were there cost synergies achieved thus far with that business? Kind of what's left as we move into the second half of this year? And then on the flip side maybe talk a little bit about the revenues synergy opportunities there.
We did -- the vast majority of the integration in the first 60 days.
So that's behind us.
The primary benefits from the acquisition are on the customer side.
There weren't any big cost takeouts.
There's just some very small cost benefits.
But we've really focused on bringing an enhanced value proposition to TLC's customers and then also bringing that combined value proposition out to new food beverage and CPG customers.
And I'm really happy with the response we're getting.
I think almost at all the customers we have some growth opportunities almost all the existing TLC customers.
And then we're seeing lots of new customers that we wouldn't have been able to see if it wasn't for this acquisition.
And customers I guess the existing base of TLC customers it sounds like they've been relatively receptive to kind of the cross sell effort with Ryder's other products.
Typically how long does that take before you start to get traction in terms of selling other products? That's probably a good 9-month cycle.
Because you start out talking about kind of big picture opportunities and getting to know these new customers.
And then over time you start to zero in on actual projects.
Quite often the customer then these are big companies they'll often put out a bid on a new project and then you have to go win the bid.
And so we've been very focused on these customers since January.
And now we have built up -- we've won some new business and we've built up a pretty good pipeline of new opportunities.
Then as we win new opportunities it will be a ramp-up period.
So it probably will be next year before we start to see measurable revenue and profit growth from these initiatives.
But the pipeline we're seeing and the kind of conversations we're having with these customers are all very positive.
And just a follow-up to that the NBT Supply Chain Solutions at 5.5% you take out the $0.02 of negative impact from the Japan situation a little bit higher.
Were there any kind of volume anomalies because you saw nice growth with existing customers? Were there any volume or cost anomalies that pushed up that margin? Or is this kind of the run rate of the profitability moving forward? Well I think if you take our 5.5% margin and you add in the tsunami impact you have what might be I'm not a historian for Ryder but it might be a record NBT.
It certainly is a percentage margin that is at the high end of what I've said publicly we could get to at some point.
I think everything has been going right.
I don't think you can expect -- I wouldn't take our NBT add on the tsunami impact and say that's what we're were going to get every quarter.
But I think everything was going right.
And we're not expecting a lot to go wrong in the rest of the year.
But it was one of those quarters where everything went very well.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Swienton.
All right.
I think we've gotten to everybody's call.
And it's a little past noon so we're going to sign off.
Thank you all for your participation.
Have a good safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Robert Sanchez President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Well thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Today we'll recap our third quarter 2011 results review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook for the business.
And In addition we're going to provide you with a brief overview of several future enhancements that we plan to make with our financial statement reporting and after those remarks we'll open up the call for questions.
So let me get right into an overview of our third quarter results.
On Page 4 for those following the presentation online net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.10 for the third quarter 2011 up from $0.76 in the prior year period.
The third quarter results included a $0.01 tax benefit from acquisition-related costs incurred in the prior year.
Excluding this benefit comparable EPS was $1.09 in the third quarter 2011 up from $0.76 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.33 or 43% over the prior year period.
Third quarter EPS was also above our forecast range of $0.98 to $1.03.
We delivered on our targets in Fleet Management with strong results on Rental acquisitions and Used Vehicle sales.
We exceeded our plans in supply chains due to acquisitions and strong performance in both existing accounts and from new business.
Total revenue grew 19% from the prior year.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel in all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 17% with double-digit growth in all 3 business segments.
The increase in revenue reflects both the benefit of our recent acquisitions and organic growth.
Page 5 includes some additional financial statistics for the third quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined by 700 000 shares to 50.8 million.
During the third quarter we repurchased approximately 203 000 shares at an average price of $46.90 under our 2 million share anti-dilutive program.
This program remains active with approximately 415 000 shares available at quarter end.
As of September 30th there were 51.1 million shares outstanding of which 50.8 million are currently included in the diluted share calculation.
The third quarter 2011 tax rate with 35%.
The tax rate reflects the benefit of $600 000 from acquisition transaction costs incurred in the prior year.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate would be 35.7% in the third quarter 2011 versus 36% in the prior year.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics for the year-to-date period.
Operating revenue was up by 16%.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $2.52 up by 61% from $1.57 in the prior year.
Excluding tax law changes from earlier this year and other items the comparable tax rate was 37.5% in 2011 versus 39.2% last year.
Adjusted return on capital which is calculated on a rolling 12-month basis was 5.5% versus 4.5% in the prior year as growth in earnings outpaced growth in capital.
We now expect a positive spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital of a positive 20 basis points for the full year.
This is above our previous forecast which estimated a breakeven spread for the year.
It also represents an improvement of 150 basis points from last year.
I'll turn now to Page 7 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the third quarter in each of the business segments.
In Fleet Management total revenue grew 16% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes a 28% increase in fuel services revenue reflecting higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 12% mainly due to higher commercial rental revenue and acquisitions.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and Contract Maintenance was up by 4%.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 5%.
The average lease fleet size increased 7% from the prior year's third quarter.
On a sequential basis from the second quarter 2011 the average fleet was up 6% reflecting recent acquisitions.
Excluding the acquisitions the U.S.
organic lease fleet grew slightly from the second quarter resulting from both improved retention rates on expiring leases and new business wins.
We're very pleased to see this positive inflection in our U.S.
lease fleet and expect the global fleet to also increase from current levels on an organic basis by year end.
Miles driven per day per vehicle on U.S.
lease power units were down 1.5% from the prior year.
We realized strong growth in Commercial Rental revenue of 40% reflecting improved global demand higher pricing and an increase in the fleet size.
The average rental fleet increased 30% and was up by 12% excluding acquisitions.
Global utilization on rental power units remained strong at 79.3% up 10 basis points from last year.
Global pricing on power units was up 11% versus the prior year.
In Fleet Management we also saw stronger Used Vehicle results during the quarter reflecting a continued strong demand environment.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Improved FMS results were partially offset by higher compensation-related expenses and higher maintenance costs on our older lease fleet.
We expect increased maintenance costs resulting from the lease fleet age to continue in the fourth quarter.
Net Before Tax earnings in Fleet Management were up 35%.
Fleet Management earnings as a percent of operating revenue increased by 150 basis points to 9% in the third quarter.
Turning to the Supply Chain Solutions segment on Page 8 both total and operating revenues were up 26% with operating revenue growth in all industry verticals.
Revenue increased due to the Total Logistic Control acquisition in December higher volumes and new business startups.
Revenue growth in these areas largely drove the improved earnings in this segment.
Earnings also benefited by approximately $2 million from favorable insurance development foreign exchange gains and a facility sale.
Increased SCS earnings were partially offset by higher compensation-related costs.
In total SCS Net Before Tax earnings were up by 47%.
In Dedicated Contract Carriage total revenue was up by 31% and operating revenue was up by 26%.
This growth reflects the Scully acquisition and higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
DCC's Net Before Tax earnings decreased 3%.
And while earnings increased as a result of the acquisition and better operating performance these improvements were more than offset by increased compensation-related expenses and legal claims.
As a result DCC's earnings as a percent of operating revenue were down by 170 basis points to 5.6%.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of our income statement which I just discussed and is included for your reference.
Page 10 highlights our year-to-date results by business segment.
And in the interest of time I won't review these results in full detail but will just highlight bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $130.5 million up by 57% from $83.1 million in the prior year.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 11 year-to-date gross capital expenditures totaled $1.25 billion which is up $354 million from the prior year.
Spending on leased vehicles was up $127 million from the prior year reflecting improved sales and higher investment costs on new vehicles.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was $580 million due to both refreshment and planned growth of the rental fleet.
This was an increase of $222 million over the prior year.
Our total full year capital spending forecast remains on track with previously expected levels.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $224 million that's up $62 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher Used Vehicle pricing partially offset by fewer units sold.
Including proceeds from sales net capital expenditures increased by $292 million to just over $1 billion.
We also spent $362 million year-to-date on acquisitions primarily related to the purchases of Hill Hire and Scully.
Turning to the next Page we generated cash from operating activities of $782 million year-to-date down by $22 million from the prior year.
The reduction is primarily due to changes in working capital reflecting increased receivables.
We generated $1.1 billion of total cash year-to-date up by $38 million from the prior year as increased Used Vehicle sales proceeds more than offset the reduction in cash from operations.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by approximately $300 million to almost $1.2 billion.
Company had negative free cash flow of $113 million year-to-date.
Free cash flow was down $266 million from the prior year's positive free cash flow due mainly to higher planned capital spending on vehicles.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of approximately $3.3 billion are up $416 million as compared to year end 2010.
The increased debt level is largely due to acquisitions and higher vehicle capital spending.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 225% up from 203% at the end of 2010.
As you may recall last quarter we commented that we expected year end leverage to be around 220%.
Our leverage calculation includes the impact of a pension equity charge that's determined at year end based on planned asset values and discount rates.
At the levels we've seen recently in the market our leverage forecast would increase by approximately 10 to 20 percentage points.
The final calculation will be done as of 12/31.
Looking ahead changes in asset values and discount rates for our pension plan will likely also impact earnings in 2012.
Again this impact will not be determined until the measurement date on 12/31 but at recent levels we estimated negative EPS impact next year of approximately $0.01 to $0.06.
We'll provide the actual impact on both leverage and earnings on our fourth quarter call.
Turning back to third quarter results.
Our equity balance at the end of the quarter was $1.45 billion that's up by $47 million versus year end 2010.
The equity increase was driven by earnings partially offset by dividends currency translation adjustments and net share repurchases.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our Global Used Vehicle inventory for sale was 5 100 vehicles up by 400 units or 9% from the third quarter 2010.
While the ending inventory was higher the average inventory was down by 4% for the quarter.
Additionally our Used Truck inventory remains well below our target level.
We sold 4 100 vehicles during the quarter down 7% from the prior year due to lower average inventory available for sale.
We expect the number of vehicles sold in the fourth quarter to be consistent with year-to-date sales while in 2012 we anticipate sales volume to increase due to higher lease renewals.
We saw continued strength in Used Vehicle demand and pricing in the quarter.
Improved demand is a result of both relatively better market conditions and the desire of some truck buyers to obtain pre-2010 engines.
Stronger demand combined with less available inventory in the market has allowed us to up-price generally and in the U.S.
market to increase the proportion of retail sales where we realize better prices.
Compared to the third quarter 2010 proceeds per vehicle were up 39% on tractors and 20% up on trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 6% and truck pricing was up 5% versus the second quarter of 2011.
Going forward we expect continued strong Used Vehicle pricing in all classes.
At the end of the quarter approximately 7 600 vehicles were classified as no longer earning revenue.
This was up by 700 units or 10% from the prior year and reflects an increase in lease replacement activity.
As expected the number of lease contracts on existing vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term declined versus last year.
While extensions are still running somewhat above normalized levels they're now below 2009 levels for the first time this year.
This decline reflects an increase in new full-term lease contract sales instead of lease extensions by customers.
Early termination of leased vehicles declined by 650 units or 22%.
Early terminations were less than half what they were 2 years ago and were at the lowest level in the past decade.
This continues to be a very positive indicator of improved leased demand and sales.
Let me turn to Page 17 to cover our outlook and forecast.
In Fleet Management we've seen continued strength in Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales into early October and are expecting these areas to be in line with our prior outlook.
In Full Service Lease our sales results have improved very nicely this year for both new business and fleet renewals.
We saw the positive inflection in our organic U.S.
fleet that we've anticipated and we expect the global fleet to grow organically in the fourth quarter.
Including vehicles from acquisitions our lease fleet has already grown by 8%.
We expect to benefit over the next couple of years from the need for replacement of aging private fleets along with a higher cost and increased complexity of new vehicle technologies.
In supply chain the TLC acquisition has helped us more than double our revenue in the retail and CPG industries and we're seeing very solid interest from customers in the services we can now deliver by combining Ryder and TLC's service offerings.
Organic growth in our other industry business verticals is also helping us deliver improved earnings in this segment.
While margins were somewhat higher than usual in the third quarter we anticipate solid margins in this segment to continue.
In DCC while margins were down this quarter due to a couple cost items revenues are up strongly from our acquisition and we're seeing a better new business pipeline.
Given these factors we're providing a fourth quarter EPS forecast of $0.92 to $0.97 versus a comparable prior year EPS of $0.65.
This represents fourth quarter EPS improvement of $0.27 to $0.32 or a 42% to 49% increase.
And this range is consistent with the fourth quarter guidance implied in our prior forecast update.
With this fourth quarter outlook we're increasing our full year 2011 comparable EPS forecast range from a previous $3.33 to $3.43 to a new range of $3.44 to $3.49.
Our full year EPS forecast range represents a 55% to 57% improvement above last year's comparable EPS of $2.22.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call we plan to make several enhancements to our financial reporting format starting in the fourth quarter.
So I'll turn the call back over to Art to provide a brief overview of these upcoming changes.
Thanks Greg.
A brief description of the enhancements to our financial reporting and their effective implementation dates are provided on Page 19.
First we're going to revise the format for the Ryder System consolidated income statement.
Our current income statement format is more typically seen for transportation companies and presents a single line for consolidated revenue.
The new presentation is more consistent with the nature of Ryder's business model which includes vehicle leasing and rental as well as other services.
You'll see this change starting next quarter with our fourth quarter reporting.
Second we plan to combine the financial reporting for the Supply Chain and Dedicated Contract business segments.
These businesses have become more integrated over recent years from both an operational and sales perspective and therefore it makes sense to combine them from a financial reporting view as well.
The third enhancement will exclude the non-service portion of pension costs from segment earnings and report this cost separately.
This will provide better visibility to the segment's operating performance as well as to the performance of our frozen pension plans.
The segment changes will be effective with our first quarter 2012 reporting.
As we've done in the past for any reporting changes we'll provide historical information under the new formats for comparative purposes.
The next several pages outline the format of the new financials for each of the 3 changes.
Page 20 shows the current and future formats for Ryder's consolidated income statement.
The current format shows one number for consolidated revenue.
Under the future format you'll see the revenues for leasing and rental activity other services and fuel.
The new format also separately provides the direct cost for each of these 3 revenue items along with some additional detail on other costs such as SG&amp;A expense.
Key items such as depreciation that are no longer separately listed on the consolidated P&amp;L will be shown elsewhere in the financials.
This presentation provides a more detailed breakout of revenue and expenses and better aligns the expenses with the type of revenue supported.
Page 21 presents the revised segment reporting format which will show combined results for Supply Chain and Dedicated contract.
Current DCC segment revenue will be presented in the relevant industry vertical along with Supply Chain segment revenue.
In addition we will show as a memo item the combination of standalone DCC segment revenue with DCC revenue previously reported within Supply Chain.
This change aligns our reporting format with how the businesses are being operated.
It will also provide you with a combined view into total dedicated activity throughout the company which was previously included in 2 separate segments.
The last reporting enhancement will exclude non-service pension costs from segment pretax earnings.
A comparison of the current and future presentation is provided on Page 22.
Our pension plans have been frozen for several years.
However non-service components of pension can drive significant pension expense volatility because of changes in equity markets and the overall interest rate environment.
Currently this pension volatility is presented in segment results.
Going forward segment margins will more accurately reflect the true operating performance of the business rather than being skewed by pension.
You'll also be able to see the impact of the pension plan on Ryder's results separately.
Again we'll provide historical information both in our earnings call materials and online for comparison and modeling purposes.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to Greg.
Thanks Art.
That does conclude our prepared remarks this morning and we'll move on to the Q&amp;A portion.
[Operator Instructions] So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the FMS segment Contract Maintenance is down 2% year-over-year can you just comment on why you think that was and what's holding back kind of the increased maintenance outsourcing? Sure let me ask Robert Sanchez to comment on that.
Yes David.
If you look at the -- although the revenue is down the fleet count is up and that's really because of a change in the mix of units that we have in there now.
We lost an account that had heavier duty equipment picked up an account that has lighter duty-type vehicles.
As you know we're trying to expand our -- and broaden our service offering.
So that's really just a change in the mix of business that we have.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And have you any issues with mechanic recruiting? There's -- you talked about driver shortage but I also hear that mechanics are difficult to find.
We are -- as with everybody in the industry we're seeing certainly a little more difficultly in recruiting technicians than maybe what we had 5 to 10 years ago.
But we actually view that as an advantage for us because we're very good at it and especially as compared to private fleets that are maybe doing maintenance on their own that are having to go through this on their own we view that as an opportunity for us.
And just the last numbers that I've seen from HR this year in 9 months we've hired 1 100 technicians.
I mean that's due to a lot of retirements and really some of the aging out of people who've been in service here for 34 years.
So you're going to have some of that over time so were doing a lot of hiring obviously when you can hire 1 100 you have access to a lot of people.
Our next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg as I look at this cycle maybe compared to previous cycles it feels a little elongated this time as we keep seeing strength in Commercial Rental I think given the uncertain economic environment do you expect Commercial Rental to remain strong with economic uncertainty that continues to dominate the headlines? I would say that this cycle is both elongated and probably different than a lot of things we've seen in the past.
And that's why people ask is there a new normal? I would say in our case for Ryder's case I think what we expect to continue is very strong Commercial Rental and simultaneous growth in new lease Full Service Lease sales.
And that's what we predicted and that's exactly what we're seeing now.
We have an inflection and an upward turn in our lease replacements as well as new business sold as well as very strong 40% Commercial Rental growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Another question.
You've talked about I think maybe some higher maintenance costs in Q4 because of the lease fleet age do you anticipate maintenance cost moderating some in 2012? Robert you want to...
Yes I think that they will moderate but it's -- we're still probably 12 to 15 months out from it really turning the corner because you've got the vehicles that were signed in '06 which are now entering into the fifth and sixth year.
And that as those units begin to go through a replacement cycle you'll then see maintenance costs and you'll see that average fleet age start to come down.
But in the near term we expected it to still continue to be somewhat higher.
Our next question is from Alex Brand with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
This is Sterling in for Alex today.
I wanted to ask about revenue in the fourth quarter with all of the improving trends you've mentioned growing lease fleet the trends in Commercial Rental I guess I'm not sure if we should expect revenue to be up sequentially in the fourth quarter? And if you can walk us through at least in FMS qualitatively the different segments and whether or not we should expect upward revenues sequentially.
I think generally they'd certainly be up considerably over the last year.
Sequentially maybe Art if you've got that available? Yes Greg to your point they're going to be up year-over-year reflecting the benefit of acquisitions and organic growth.
We do see some seasonal declines in rental as well as in our automotive business and supply chain and then also with the acquisition of TLC the CPG business has a little bit of seasonality in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And fair enough and just as a follow-up to that.
The Full Service Lease revenue with organic growth starting in that segment should we expect sequential increase in revenue there? Yes you're going to see revenue be relatively flat sequentially but continue to be up year-over-year.
We should see it up somewhere in the 5% range year-over-year.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And I just wanted to last ask about the DCC segment.
I understand reporting is going to change there.
But the cost increases you saw in salaries is that -- I assume that's mostly driver pay is that something we should continue to expect to escalate? Well it's partially driver pay but you may also recall that over the last 2.5 years we've also had management salary freezes so part of the increases are due to just giving people increases again and probably paying them in line for the results this year.
So on a year-over-year basis you get a disproportionate impact.
So I wouldn't hang all of that on just driver pay.
So that's something else that of course is an industry issue and we manage but you have to consider the other compensation restoration that are in there.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you say what Full Service Lease growth was sequentially if you were to strip out acquisitions? In terms of units it's probably around 300 sequentially on Full Service Lease net.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what will be realistic numbers to think about maybe a range over the next couple of quarters? We'd like to be able to do that or better.
If we continue the trends that we have seen in the recent past in terms of improvement of retention lease replacements and new business growth we would expect that number to accelerate.
The specifics especially for the second quarter out we're not commenting on yet for 2012 but I think directionally that's what we would expect.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that net of -- that's net growth correct? That is net growth yes.
Net organic growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then instead of asking another question I'll ask Bob.
Is it possible to provide the new formatted historical information ahead of the next release? I'll just throw that out as a request for you to consider.
Just give us some time to update our models before you actually print the number.
Yes I think Anthony we'll look at some of those.
I think the ones around segment reporting and the exclusion of that non-service portion of pension from the results we'll be able to provide those I think earlier on.
The piece on the Ryder's consolidated income statement that's something that we're completing and I think if we're ready to do it we'll get it out.
If not it will come out right around the same time as the earnings call.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so Art answered and Bob was nodding his head yes.
I'm just figuring out who will have to do all that work.
Well mostly it's Art and actually his staff.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to try to ask my question very high level because I'm struggling with it a little bit.
So third quarter numbers come in better than expected.
We have a fading macro backdrop throughout most of August a lot of uncertainty.
The Full Service Lease business actually starting to accelerate which gets me kind of intrigued because that's where the late cycle leverage is and that's where numbers can really move.
And then fourth quarter the guide it's kind of consistent with what you saw 3 months ago.
And on the one hand beggars can't be choosers into a fading macro backdrop keeping guidance for fourth quarter flat with where you were 3 months ago it should be considered a victory.
But I'm just trying to understand am I missing something that changes in the business as the late cycle business ticks up.
Do you kind of lose some of the Commercial rent fees or is -- or maybe this cost in the Dedicated concert business coming in more than I anticipated or --  so I'm just throwing out there kind of high-level open-ended question.
Well you sort of have 2 categories in the question.
One is the macro trends and then maybe some specifics regarding the fourth quarter.
I think that in spite of sort of the uncertainty that you hear in the marketplace we do have a lot of macro trends going for us.
I think generally when things are difficult and things get more complex and more expensive which is in the case both in Fleet Management and supply chain that the outsourcing proposition and specifically our outsourcing value proposition in which we can show to customers that we can perform these functions more efficiently and cost-effectively that serves us well.
So regardless of the economic climate we believe and we are committed to selling through that.
Of course a strong economy is always better and easier but we think we can continue to sell through that and sell the value proposition.
And I think that a lot of that was reflected in the third quarter and actually carries into the fourth quarter.
So many macro trends in our favor including aging fleets and outsourcing and all the rest.
Regarding the fourth quarter yes we hailed the same as we did in the previous quarter.
Because you tend at least historically to have a bit of a seasonal falloff.
Our first quarter is always the lowest the second quarter picks up we peak in the third and we usually flat or falloff a bit in the fourth.
That's just something that happens by the nature of the business activity we're in.
We could do better and that's why we put a range on it.
And we thought all things considered and we've been somewhat accused sometimes of being a bit conservative we thought it was appropriate to maintain that level of forecast that we had 3 months ago.
But there's certainly nothing that would indicate that Commercial Rental is going to slow down or that our sales are going to slow down.
We are as committed as ever to be able to sell and drive that value proposition we expect to do it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I do have a really quick one for Art.
Art is there any update you can provide from the pension funding levels and what we might anticipate in terms of the pension income headwinds on a consolidated basis for next year? Yes I mentioned -- I had that in my comments earlier Peter.
It's -- right now if you look at current levels kind of what we're seeing in the market around equity returns and the discount rate environment we'd be looking at an increase in pension expense next year of $0.01 to $0.06 depending on how it plays out.
And that it also would impact leverage.
We had -- I had previously given an update of forecast around 220 at the end of for leverage baking in what we're seeing around pension volatility that could increase that number 10 to 20 percentage points.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg maybe one more on the seasonality question.
As I look back on Commercial Rental it seems like if I go back the fourth quarter was always a little bit stronger from a utilization standpoint.
That hasn't necessarily held true in the past couple of years.
What would your expectation be from utilizations sequentially with the rental fleet going into the fourth quarter? And also what should we expect for the size of the rental fleet maybe on a year-over-year basis? Robert you want to comment? Yes.
Tom in terms of utilization we typically see it come down a little bit.
But more importantly we normally bring our fleet down in the fourth quarter as just part of the normal cycle.
As we get into the tail end of the holiday season the business slows down a bit and then we start -- we outsource vehicles try to get them out that the fleet so that we start the first quarter with a smaller fleet that's more aligned with the demand for the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> So on the average the size of the Commercial Rental fleet in the fourth quarter means it's going to be up 25% year-over-year or 20%? Sequentially you'll probably see it go down any -- right around 1 500 units.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the follow-up I think when you laid out the guidance at the end of the second quarter you talked about Hire Hill (sic) [Hill Hire] being $0.12 to $0.17 accretive in the second half.
Do you have a number of where that came in for the third quarter and what the expectation for that would be for the fourth quarter? Hill Hire it was probably a little bit better than our forecast but not significantly.
So that our $0.12 to $0.17 range is still a good placeholder.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing anything different with the trends in Europe versus here domestically given some of the things that are going on in those markets? Actually not.
We found that Commercial Rental on both sides of the Atlantic have been very strong and new lease commitments have also done well.
Our next question is from Ed Wolfe with Wolfe Trahan.
Can you talk a little bit on the logistics side? John big quarter obviously with Supply Chain but $22.4 million I think is a record in a quarter versus $15 million a year ago and $17 million last quarter.
Is there some things in there that are onetime in nature or is this a fair run rate going forward? Well yes thanks for pointing that out Ed.
I think it was a record and I think we mentioned that there were a couple of kind of onetime things benefiting us in the quarter.
The third quarter is always our best quarter anyway.
I think 6.9% might even have been a record.
I think there's maybe about $2 million of things that you could categorize as good outcomes or onetime benefits then there's about $0.5 million of tsunami cost working against us and that's all out now.
So I think if you've factored and netted that out it would still have been a really good quarter but it wouldn't have been kind of off the charts good.
Sure but if I take that $1.5 million away it's still $21 million that's a fair number to work off in this quarter at next year? Well next year is a long way away.
We've been saying for a long time that this business can do for a year and keep in mind that third quarter is the best quarter but that for a year we can do in the fives and that we're hoping to get up to around 6 eventually.
And then that's what I've been saying for a while.
I think we're making good progress on that getting up to 6 for a year although I don't want to commit to that for next year.
But I think we're improving our margins and we're getting up towards that.
And as the second question more general for Greg or Robert.
I know you haven't set your CapEx budget next year but directionally at this point would you expect giving current trends CapEx would be directionally up flattish or down at this point? I would expect CapEx to be up and that would be a sign of a very good news because it would mean that we're replacing a lot of existing leases and we're selling a lot of new business.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me this morning.
Looking at the daily miles driven by -- in those lease fleet being down 1.5% second quarter in a row that number's been down.
Can you address that and talk about if something unusual is going on there and if we need to be worried about that directionally? Robert you want to comment? Yes Art it's down 1.5%.
Last quarter it was relatively flat.
So it is -- I think it's too early to tell if it's something that's really something to worry about.
I think some of it is -- as customers are beginning to look at leases bring lease vehicles into their fleet give back some of the rental units there's a little bit of noise there.
So we're expecting going into the next -- going into the fourth quarter to -- that it will be down again about 1% year-over-year.
So not a significant drop.
It hasn't hit the peaks in terms of miles per unit that it hit in '07 so there should still be some room for those numbers to move up but probably a little early to tell in terms of -- if it's some type of trends we should worry about.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to address the used truck pricing strength just conceptually.
What do you think has been the driver of this strength here year-to-date.
Is it more of a -- is it simply a scarcity function given the age of the fleet and the limited availability of 3- to 4-year-old trucks.
Or do you see a trade down of some of the customers that might normally deal with dipping down into buying used equipment.
How much of it is demand and how much of it is supply? I think both parts that you mentioned are relevant.
There certainly is a supply and demand issue.
There's more freight to move than a year ago and used trucks are obviously if they're well-maintained by Ryder they're reliable and they're a good bargain for their purpose.
I believe that we are seeing some new buyers because there always is a core of used truck buyers but we do believe that the extra surge in demand affecting the supply-demand relationship is a reflection of a desire for pre-2010 engines which are a lot less expensive than buying a new one.
So I would say both are the case.
And Robert I'm not sure if you want to add anything...
Yes I think that the trade down that we're seeing the most is folks who would normally buy maybe a 3-year-old used piece of equipment are now buying a 5- or 6-year-old because there's not enough of the 3- and 4-year-olds.
If you look at the average age of what we sell it's anywhere from 6 to 8 years old.
So we do see customers coming in who would normally be buying maybe a 3- or 4-year-old vehicle now looking at buying something older because there's just not availability.
So we're certainly happy with what we're seeing in the market.
We're seeing strong pricing and a lot of certainly a lot of demand from customers that are looking for equipment and we expect that certainly that trend if you just look at fleet agings across the network we expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> And then I think related to that can you talk about the lease pricing dynamics.
There is some reluctance to take new equipment demand is stable but still relatively weak.
Have you seen any changes in the lease pricing dynamics here in the third quarter and what your expectations over the next 6 to 9 months as you kind of turn the corner on organic lease fleet growth.
Yes Ben we're seeing certainly stable pricing in the market.
We are seeing that the recapture if you will of the higher costs in that and we do -- we do see it we're seeing a lot of activity on the lease sales side where we have a very strong lease sales.
Sales for us is new contract signed.
We had a strong quarter in the third quarter and the pipeline is very strong right now so we like where it's going.
We are seeing customers that are now willing to put pen to paper and sign new contracts as their fleets have gotten older and as they're making decisions on whether to buy trucks or lease vehicles.
We're beginning to see more interest on that side also.
So we're happy with that trend and where it's going.
Our next question is from Matt Brooklier with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly expectations for your fourth quarter tax rate.
I know there's been kind of a little bit of volatility into the end of the year but just is there a decent number for us to use? Yes Matt our -- the rate for Q3 was 35.7 which it is seasonally lower in the second half for us and we expect that to continue in the fourth quarter so that's the rate I would be using the high 35s.
Research Division</strong> 35.7 in fourth quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe you could talk to how demand trended in the quarter into September and thus far into October how things are feeling from a demand perspective within your lease and your rental business.
And also maybe talk to some of your larger rental customers and in terms of how they're positioning themselves into what feels like it could be a smaller peak season but just generally how are they positioning themselves from a rental product perspective? Well on the rental side we're -- October seems to be following the same trends that we saw in the third quarter so still relatively strong.
We are seeing the seasonal customers that normally come to us in the fourth quarter are showing up.
And they are going through a similar pattern as they go in this time of the cycle.
So I think continued strength in rental is really the story so far in October.
On the lease side as I mentioned earlier we had the very strong third quarter.
It was actually the second strongest third quarter sales quarter for us in the last decade.
So only in 2006 did we see more sales here in the U.S.
as it relates to lease contracts.
So we're happy about that we're seeing that continuing in October and we think that marries up well with our expectation around the replacement cycle that we're seeing in the OEM sales that are out there.
Our next question is from Jeff Kaufman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Greg I want to come back to Peter Nesvold's question.
Because I think that's what the market is kind of scratching their head over today with the shares.
You basically you guidance by $0.08 or $0.09 and you're kind of forward guiding flat versus your previous expectations each of the last 2 quarters you raised your guidance.
Is this -- the way I interpreted your comments is this you not just wanting to get over your skis because there's a lot of good things happening you don't want to overpromise or is there really something here beneath the surface where you're kind of slowing down your speed on the mountain here.
Well we banked everything that we've made and we pushed that forward and as you say we've maintain the fourth quarter.
I wouldn't say that there is something that we're seeing that causes us any concern in the fourth quarter.
You can make your guess as good as anybody else as to whether we're going to have some slowdowns whether we're going to have a slow Christmas whether it's going to be low volume.
We just don't know either.
But I would say if we're -- right now if you're on the meter of bullish versus bearish we're a little bit more on the bullish side because we haven't seen a slowdown yet.
Robert just talked about the strength that we're seeing thus far.
This is October 25 right? So were one month into the last quarter and we haven't seen it slowdown yet.
If it keeps up then we're going to be very happy.
But in terms of making predictions or as you say not getting too far over the front of your skis yes we're going to be appropriate and prudent and kind of down the middle.
And we'll see how it plays out but there's nothing that suggest to us now that it’s not going to another solid quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up question for John Williford please.
John I always thought of the logistics  business as we really shouldn't look at operating margins it's not the right way to look at it or pretax margins.
And to Ed Wolfe's point here you are north of 5% and that's something you really didn't think this business could do.
Is that the right way to think about what you're achieving in the business or is there something's changing where 6% is becoming a margin we think we can do? Yes I tend to say don't focus as much on operating margin focus more on growth and profits.
Our business and SCS is so big in that types of projects are stable enough that it can be -- really be a way to think about growth and profits is to compare operating margins from year-to-year but it really is what I think about.
And what I'm happy about for the quarter is we grew our NBT by 47%.
So and I think we can continue to grow our NBT at good levels and probably at levels that are a little faster than our growth in revenue and that when you look that over a big portfolio of business and it probably does cause our margin to start to climb up from what people are used to of around 5% in a good year to something that starts to get above 5% and closer to 6% over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If we think about kind of what's different and what might be causing this.
Is this more you just controlling your overhead well is this you're into new businesses that might afford you better numbers is this better customer mix? Kind of what's changing that's leading us to be able to do this outside of executing very well and doing a great job? Well part of it is execution I think.
Part of it is growing the business with the roughly the same size or less growth rate in the overhead than you have growth in the number of projects than the profit coming from projects.
I also think we're tending to focus on more higher value projects and more integrated projects as we're growing into new segments and new industry groups like the CPG verticals has been very good for us and we are selling lots of our -- a big part of our pipeline.
Actually half of our pipeline is in CPG right now.
And a lot of that is integrated projects where we're combining different functions for our customer.
And those tend to be a little more profitable on a margin basis.
Our next question is from David Campbell with Thompson Davis &amp; Company.
Greg you've talked a lot about the fourth quarter and I appreciate your answers.
Just to sort of clarify for me.
In order to earn $0.92 in the quarter you probably had to have some disappointing and sudden change in the Commercial Rental growth.
Everything else is pretty visible isn't that right? Most of what we do is long-term contractual and unless there should be some sudden volume decline yes we could count on the longer term rental.
I think in terms of the transactional maintenance we're through pretty much the month of October and we're feeling good about that.
I think the one the other factor you still have to continue to keep in mind is the maintenance impact from the older fleet.
We're still facing that as a headwind.
But everything else looks real good.
Our next question is from David Mack with J.
Goldman.
I have a question on the full service NBT excluding fuel.
And your thoughts longer term about getting back towards the margins that the business had back in '06 '07.
What are the barriers to getting back to those margins and can you talk about some of those puts and takes? Sure.
Robert...
Probably the biggest barrier left is the actual fleet itself and 2 things need to happen is the fleet needs to get younger and the fleet still need to grow some.
Because even though if you look at total fleet count were back at those levels that fleet count includes a number of trailers that we acquired through Hill Hire the Hill Hire acquisition that obviously aren't -- don't generate the same revenue and profit as a tractor would.
So we're still short our tractor fleet probably about 5 000 units.
So we still need to grow some and we need to get younger.
That -- to put it in perspective it's probably -- you're probably several quarters out maybe 12 months out before those '06 units that are the ones that are driving the units that we purchased in 2006 are the ones that are driving a lot of that fleet age.
Once those units get to the end of life and turnover into new equipment you'll see the fleet age start to shrink and that's when fleet starts to get newer maintenance costs come down and you'd see the profit level start to return.
And in terms of pricing on your new deals.
So you would say that pricing is where it needs to be when you combine it with the factors you just mentioned to get back to those types of margins? Yes.
Our next question is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just another question on the engines.
You guys look at more Class A tractors than anybody else out there.
Do you have any comments Robert on the use for life miles per gallon life cycle costs of kind of the '07 engines versus 2010 engines? Or maybe just on the '07 if there's not enough new data on the 2010 anything you're seeing surprising.
Probably the most interesting thing we're seeing is that we are seeing improvement in fuel efficiency on the 2010 engines.
And that is something that is certainly helping with the purchase of the new equipment and certainly convincing more customers to go ahead and purchase new equipment versus continue to run the eight [ph].
Because although the cost to the equipment is higher the fuel savings certainly helps to offset if not all of it a good portion of it.
And that's become a very important factor.
So really the SCR technology we are seeing some fuel efficiency improvement there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And most of the new customers that are signing up for these 2010 engines are looking at the SCR versus the EGR? As you know certainly over the last several years the larger portion of our lease fleet is with freight liner which is SCR.
So we are continuing to see that this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for John on the retail side.
Any comment on retail inventories coming on activity as the retail customer base in October? Yes.
Retail we're still growing the retail industry group.
And so our exposure maybe isn't as broad as it someday will be.
What we've seen though is a smaller peak the smaller summer ocean peak than you would have expected and in general the customers we work with working to cut their number of SKUs and cut their inventories in their stores relative to their sales and better manage inventories and I do think that's kind of worked its way through the ocean and maybe a little bit now through the transportation pipeline.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-ups.
I get this question all the time thought that I put it to you.
Can you talk to little bit about your incremental borrowing costs? And given that there's sort of a finance company overlay here what would cause your funding costs to at the margin to start to go higher? Well our incremental cost Peter if you look at today we borrow typically longer-term 5 to 7 years to match with the asset.
The funding costs are probably around 3.5% and if we go 5 years maybe 25 basis points less; 7 years maybe 25 more.
And so obviously that -- the U.S.
Treasury's drive and then we have a spread over that.
So those are the items that mainly impact our borrowing cost.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean the fact that you took your targeted spreads for the year was that a function of your returns getting better? Is it the borrowing costs getting better? Is it both? Function primarily of earnings earnings being better.
Our final question today is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just briefly you mentioned or I thought I heard you say that there were strong lease sales contracts or strong volumes recently signed.
Can you remind us from the time of the signing what's the typical period of time until a revenue is recognized? I know you sign them and then you go out and acquire the new equipment.
But from signing until revenue what's the typical length of time? That depends to fluctuate Anthony.
But right now we're more in the 4- to 6-month range based on OEM lead times.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's a little bit longer than normal? It is.
It is a little bit longer than normal.
And I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Swienton for closing comments.
Sure.
I'd like to thank everyone for adhering to our request to keep to 2 questions.
It enabled everyone to get their questions asked and people could get in queue again so thanks for that.
I appreciate your attendance.
Have a good safe day.
Bye now.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy for Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's fourth quarter 2011 earnings and 2012 forecast conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Robert Sanchez President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Today we'll recap fourth quarter 2011 results review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook and the forecast for 2012.
And as always after the initial remarks we'll open up the call for questions.
So let me begin with an overview of the fourth quarter results.
Beginning on Page 4 net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.92 for the fourth quarter 2011 up from $0.80 in the prior year period.
The fourth quarter results include a $0.05 charge for restructuring costs related to the Hill Hire acquisition.
Excluding this charge comparable EPS was $0.97 in the fourth quarter 2011 up from $0.65 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.32 or 49% over the prior year period.
Fourth quarter EPS was at the top of our forecast range of $0.92 to $0.97.
We achieved strong results in Fleet Management with significantly better Commercial Rental performance accretive acquisitions and improved Used Vehicle sales results.
Supply chain generated strong earnings improvement driven by the TLC acquisition favorable insurance claims development and new business.
Our total revenue grew 17% from the prior year and our operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 16% with double-digit growth in all 3 segments.
The increase in revenue reflects both the benefit of our recent acquisitions and organic growth.
Turning now to Page 5 which includes some additional financial statistics for the fourth quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined by 300 000 shares to 50.7 million.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately 153 000 shares at an average price of $50.21 under our 2 million share anti-dilutive program which expired in December 2011.
A new 2 million share anti-dilutive program has been approved with an expiration date of December 2013.
There has been no activity to date under the new program.
As of December 31 there were 51.1 million shares outstanding of which 50.7 million are currently included in the diluted share calculation.
The fourth quarter 2011 tax rate was 34.8%.
This compares to 16.4% in the prior year which last year reflected a favorable tax settlement of prior tax years and an expired statute of limitations.
Excluding these items in 2010 the comparable tax rate would have been 35.9% versus the 2011 comparable tax rate of 34.4%.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics for the full year.
Operating revenue was up by 16%.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $3.49 up by 57% from $2.22 in the prior year.
Adjusted return on capital was 5.7% versus 4.8% in the prior year as growth in earnings outpaced growth in capital.
And as anticipated we now have a positive spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital of 20 basis points for the full year.
And this represents an improvement in the spread of 150 basis points from the prior year.
I'd like to turn now to Page 7 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the fourth quarter in each of the business segments.
In Fleet Management total revenue grew 13% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes an 18% increase in fuel services revenue reflecting higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 12% mainly due to higher Commercial Rental revenue and acquisitions.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and Contract Maintenance was up by 4%.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 5% versus the prior year.
The average lease fleet size increased 8% from the prior year's fourth quarter largely due to acquisitions.
On an organic basis excluding acquisitions the global lease fleet increased sequentially from the third quarter by approximately 1 000 vehicles reflecting both improved new lease sales activity and higher retention rates.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units were down 2.6% from the prior year but were up slightly on a sequential basis from the third quarter.
We've analyzed the small variance in mileage and do not see it as an indicator of softening lease demand.
In fact lease sales activity has remained strong.
We realized strong growth in Commercial Rental revenue of 38% reflecting improved global demand a larger fleet and higher pricing.
The average Rental fleet increased 31% and was up by 13% excluding the acquisitions.
Global utilization on rental power units remained strong at 78.9% up 100 basis points from last year.
Global pricing on power units was up 8% versus the prior year.
In Fleet Management we also saw a stronger Used Vehicle results during the quarter reflecting a continued strong demand environment.
And I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Improved FMS results were partially offset by higher maintenance costs investments in sales and marketing and higher compensation-related expenses.
Earnings before tax and Fleet Management were up 41%.
Fleet Management earnings as a percent of operating revenue increased by 180 basis points to 8.6% in the fourth quarter.
Turning to the Supply Chain Solutions segment on Page 8 both total and operating revenues were up by 26%.
Revenue increased due to the Total Logistic Control acquisition in December 2010 and organic new business sold.
Improved earnings in this segment were largely driven by increased revenues and favorable insurance development.
In total SCS earnings before tax were up by 44%.
Supply Chain's earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue increased by 70 basis points to 5.5% for the quarter.
In Dedicated Contract Carriage total revenue was up by 29% and operating revenue was up by 23%.
This growth reflects the Scully acquisition and higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
DCC's earnings before tax increased 7% versus the prior year.
This increase was driven by favorable insurance claims development partially offset by lower operating performance.
As a result DCC's earnings as a percent of operating revenue were down by 70 basis points to 4.8%.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of our income statement which I just discussed and is included in the package for your reference.
Page 10 highlights our full year results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review these results in full detail but will just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable full year earnings from continuing operations were $180.6 million up by 54% from $117 million in the prior year.
And at this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 11 full year gross capital expenditures totaled $1.76 billion which is up $672 million from the prior year and is in line with previously expected levels.
Spending on leased vehicles was up $420 million from the prior year mainly reflecting improved sales as well as higher investment costs on new vehicles.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was $622 million up $244 million due to both refreshment and planned growth of the rental fleet.
Approximately $100 million of this rental spend was to replace rental vehicles that were transferred to the lease product line and signed on lease contracts with customers.
So this portion of rental capital spending is really related to lease activity.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $300 million that's up $66 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects higher Used Vehicle pricing for the full year partially offset by fewer units sold.
In addition we received proceeds of $37 million from the sale and lease back of revenue earning equipment in the fourth quarter.
Including these sales net capital expenditures increased by approximately $570 million to just over $1.4 billion.
We also spent $362 million in 2011 on acquisitions primarily related to the purchases of Hill Hire and Scully.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of just over $1 billion during 2011 that's up $14 million from the prior year.
Higher earnings and depreciation net of gains more than offset the impact from changes in working capital.
We generated approximately $1.4 billion of total cash for the year up by over $100 million from the prior year due to higher Used Vehicle sales proceeds as well as proceeds from the sale lease back.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by approximately $630 million to almost $1.7 billion.
The company had negative free cash flow of $257 million for the year.
Excluding a discretionary pension contribution of almost $50 million we made in the fourth quarter free cash flow was in line with our prior expectations.
Free cash flow was down $515 million from the prior year's positive free cash flow due mainly to higher planned investments in vehicles that will generate revenue and earnings in 2012 and future years.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of approximately $3.4 billion are up almost $600 million compared to year-end 2010.
The increased debt level is largely due to higher vehicles capital spending and acquisitions.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the year were 261% up from 203% at the end of 2010 and at the low end of our target range of 250% to 300%.
Our leverage calculation was impacted by a pension equity charge that was determined at year end based on planned discount rates and asset values.
Due to lower discount rates and lower actual investment returns year-end leverage increased by 30 percentage points due to our pension plans.
This impact is greater than the 10 to 20 percentage points we estimated during our third quarter call.
Our leverage ratio is now back within our target range for the first time since 2000.
Even at this level we continue to have balance sheet flexibility to support expected organic capital spending and acquisitions activity.
Our equity balance at the end of the year was $1.3 billion down by $86 million versus year-end 2010.
The equity decrease was driven by net pension charge of $173 million partially offset by earnings.
Before I turn the call back to Greg I wanted to remind you that starting this quarter we revised the consolidated view of our income statement to provide additional revenue and expense detail.
Both the old and new version of our consolidated P&amp;L is included in the earnings press release tables we published today.
3 years of quarterly history under the new format are included in the appendix to these slides and are also available for download on our website at investors.ryder.com by visiting the Interactive Analyst Center.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to provide an asset management update.
Thank you Art.
Page 15 summarizes that key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our global Used Vehicle inventory for sale was 6 300 vehicles up by 1 100 units or 21% from the fourth quarter 2010 and is well within our target range.
We sold 4 200 vehicles during the quarter up 5%.
We saw a continued strength in Used Vehicle demand and pricing in the quarter.
Improved demand is a result of both relatively better market conditions and the desire of some truck buyers to obtain pre-2010 engines.
Stronger demand combined with less available inventory in the market has allowed us to up-price generally and in the U.S.
market to increase the proportion of retail sales where we realize better prices.
Compared to the fourth quarter 2010 proceeds per vehicle were up 29% on tractors and were unchanged for trucks.
Excluding some older units in Canada that we took to the auction market truck proceeds would've been 4% higher than the prior year.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 5%.
Truck pricing was down 3% sequentially versus the third quarter 2011 or down 1% excluding the Canadian auction units.
At the end of the quarter approximately 8 900 vehicles were classified as no longer earning revenue.
This was up by 1 700 units or 24% from the prior year and reflects an increase in lease replacement activity.
The increase also reflects seasonal out servicing of older rental units which we expect to continue in the first quarter.
As expected the number of lease contracts on existing vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term declined versus last year although they're still running somewhat above normalized levels.
This decline reflects an increase in new full-term lease contract sales instead of lease extensions by customers.
Early terminations of leased vehicles declined by about 625 units or 17%.
Early terminations were less than half what they were 2 years ago and were at the lowest level in the past decade.
This continues to be a very positive indicator of improved lease demand.
Let me now move to a discussion of our 2012 outlook.
And Pages 17 and 18 highlight some of the key assumptions in the development of the 2012 earnings forecast I'll review shortly.
Beginning on Page 17.
Our 2012 plan anticipates a moderately improving overall economic and freight environment with higher new sales in all of our business segments.
Pension costs will significantly increase in 2012 due to lower actual and expected pension investment returns.
We expect that foreign exchange rates will reflect a continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
This negatively impacts reported revenue and to a lesser extent earnings.
In the Fleet Management area based on trends that started year we're anticipating stronger new contractual sales and improving customer retention levels.
This should lead to organic growth in the contractual fleet throughout 2012.
In Commercial Rental we anticipate a higher demand and continued strong utilization with further pricing improvement during the year on a larger fleet.
We'll also see a partial carryover benefit from the Hill Hire acquisition which closed in June of last year.
In the Used Vehicle area we expect that the number of vehicles sold will increase due to higher lease and rental replacement activity this year.
We anticipate Used Vehicle pricing to be stable.
Depreciation will benefit due to our annual residual review that incorporates improved vehicle pricing we realized in 2011.
Overall as margins are expected to increase due to organic growth the depreciation change as well as productivity initiatives.
And this increase in margin will be partially offset by higher maintenance costs on a slightly older lease fleet.
Turning to Page 18 in supply chain we expect growth in revenue and earnings due to both new business and higher volumes.
In our dedicated service offering we're working on operational initiatives to drive improved earnings.
As an additional note as some of you may be aware our supply chain segment provides logistics services to Kodak which filed for bankruptcy on January 19.
Our pre-petition trade receivables total approximately $3 million most of which was outstanding at year end.
Kodak is in the early stages of the bankruptcy process.
However we do not anticipate nonpayment of the pre-petition receivables.
As such no reserves have been set aside.
This is subject however to their bankruptcy finalization.
And if the situation changed from our current expectations we could potentially incur a charge related to the bankruptcy.
Page 19 provides a summary of some of the key financial statistics in our 2012 forecast.
Based on the assumptions I just outlined we expect operating revenue to grow by 6% this year.
Comparable earnings from continuing operations are forecast to increase by 14% to 17% showing strong operating leverage on our revenue growth.
Comparable earnings per share are expected to increase by 15% to 17% to a range of $4 to $4.10 in 2012 as compared to $3.49 last year.
Our average diluted share count is forecast to remain constant at 50.9 million shares outstanding.
We project a 2012 comparable tax rate of 35.9% below the prior year's rate of 36.7% reflecting higher earnings and lower tax rate jurisdictions.
Our return on capital is forecast to increase from 5.7% in 2011 to 5.9% this year driven by higher projected earnings.
The next page Page 20 outlines our revenue expectations by business segment.
In Fleet Management contractual revenue and lease and contract maintenance is forecasted to be up by 5%.
This largely reflects improved organic growth the impact of prior acquisitions higher rates on new sales resulting from increased vehicle investment costs and the CPI rate increases.
In Commercial Rental we're forecasting revenue growth of 17%.
This is driven by a modestly improved economic environment establishment of new rental customer relationships and use of rental by private fleet owners who don't want to purchase trucks themselves.
The 17% increase in projected rental revenue reflects an 11% increase in the average fleet size and a 6% increase in price.
Supply chain operating revenue is expected to grow by approximately 2% driven by organic new business activity and volume improvements.
Page 21 provides our waterfall chart outlining the key changes in our comparable EPS forecast from 2011 to 2012.
In 2012 pension expense will be higher by $0.18 above our prior expectations of $0.01 to $0.06.
The increase is driven by lower actual and future projected pension investment returns in the plans.
Next we plan to make several strategic investments to support the long-term growth and profitability of our business.
These investments mainly fall in the areas of enhancing the maintenance technology and processes in our shops as well as sales and marketing.
These strategic investments are expected to cost between $0.11 and $0.13 this year.
A stronger U.S.
dollar is projected to lower EPS by $0.06 in 2012 but this negative foreign exchange impact is largely offset by a tax rate benefit of $0.05.
We expect improved results in our Supply Chain Solution segment which will include all dedicated activity in 2012.
New sales improved volumes and lower overhead costs are projected to increase EPS by $0.09 in 2012.
The rollover benefit from the Hill Hire acquisition is expected at $0.14 to EPS this year.
In FMS we reviewed and modified our residual value estimates to reflect the impact of higher Used Vehicle prices we saw last year and the change in depreciation rates would benefit EPS by $0.22.
Our lease fleet size increased sequentially in the latter part of 2011 reflecting improved lease sales and renewal activity while maintenance costs will be higher on a full year basis due to a slightly older fleet.
Continued improvement in organic sales is expected to provide EPS growth of $0.13 to $0.17.
And finally a larger Commercial Rental fleet and higher pricing is forecast to improve EPS by $0.25 to $0.29 for the year.
So in total these items are expected to result in comparable EPS of $4 to $4.10 in 2012.
I'll turn it over to Art now to cover capital spending and cash flow.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 22 we're forecasting gross capital spending in a range of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion up by almost $350 million to $450 million from the prior year.
Lease capital is projected to increase by $340 million to $440 million.
$300 million of this is for projected growth of the fleet due to improved sales and also includes $100 million of higher purchase cost per vehicle related to the EPA technology.
Of course we expect to earn an appropriate return on this so the higher cost per truck will contribute to both revenue and earnings growth over their useful life.
The remainder of the increase largely stems from a higher-than-normal replacement cycle and improving retention rates on expiring leases.
Since this capital spending is spread throughout the year a significant portion of this increased investment will benefit revenue and earnings primarily in 2013.
We plan to spend almost $600 million on Commercial Rental vehicles including approximately $140 million on new units to grow the fleet.
These growth units combined with the rollover impact early in the year from the Hill Hire acquisition will contribute to an 11% growth in the average rental size.
The fleet at year end is projected to be flat year-over-year.
In addition to the $140 million of capital for new units the higher cost of new engine technology will require an additional $50 million for rental and we're pricing this into customers.
As always please note that lease capital is only ordered once we have signed contracts and the split of capital between lease and rental could be revised during the year based upon movements of trucks between product lines.
Proceeds from sales of primarily revenue earning equipment are forecast to improve by $90 million to $390 million primarily reflecting an increase in the number of used vehicles sold.
As a result net capital expenditures are forecast at roughly $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion that's up approximately $300 million to $400 million from the prior year.
Free cash flow is forecast at negative $400 million to $460 million due to higher capital expenditures.
This reflects the impact of fleet growth the current vehicle replacement cycle as well as a higher investment cost per vehicle which again should lead to revenue and earnings improvements in 2012 and future years.
Based on these projections total obligations to equity at year-end 2012 are forecast at 261% to 265%.
This forecast is slightly higher than 261% at the prior year end and remains at the lower end of our target range of 250% to 300%.
At this leverage we have capacity to support additional organic growth as well as a typical acquisition spend.
Turning to the next page our return on capital is forecast to increase from 5.7% in 2011 to 5.9% this year driven by growth in projected earnings outpacing growth in capital invested.
During 2011 the spread between return on capital and cost of capital turned positive after having been negative for 2 years due to the severity of the recession.
This spread is projected to grow from positive 20 basis points in 2011 to 90 basis points in 2012 which is in line with prerecession levels.
Over time we anticipate this spread could improve beyond historical levels to the 150 basis point range.
In addition to an improved spread in 2011 our total invested capital of $5.2 billion is projected to be higher than any time during the past 10 years.
At this point let me turn the call back over to Greg to review our EPS forecast.
Thanks Art.
Turning to Page 24 as I previously outlined in the waterfall chart our full year 2012 EPS is a range of $4 to $4.10 up $0.51 to $0.61 from a comparable $3.49 in the prior year.
We're also providing a first quarter EPS forecast of $0.55 to $0.58 versus the comparable prior year EPS of $0.51.
I'd like to point out that the difference in our view of the quarterly seasonality of EPS versus the Current Street consensus is primarily a swap between first and second quarters' projected earnings.
Coming into the first quarter of 2011 we didn't undergo the typical level of rental vehicle out-servicing because the market was strongly rebounding at that time.
But in this year in 2012 while the rental market remains strong and is still improving we're doing a bit more of the typical seasonal out-servicing of older vehicles.
In addition the prior year's first quarter benefited from a decline in pension expense positive earnings from acquisitions and 3% -- $0.03 property gain in FMS.
Given these factors there's more of a sequential decline from the fourth quarter last year into the first quarter this year as compared to the prior year.
Turning to Page 25.
As we discussed earlier pension expense in 2012 will be above our prior expectations and will be up by $0.18 this year.
Given the impact from pension expense we thought it would be helpful to provide you with you a view of historical and forecasted comparable earnings per share excluding the non-service pension costs.
This information helps when looking at the underlying operational performance of our business without the impacts of the equity markets and discount rate environment on our pension plans which have been frozen for several years.
Excluding non-service pension costs the midpoint of our 2012 EPS forecast is $4.44.
This is the highest comparable EPS we'd ever achieved including in our peak earnings year of 2008 which was $4.43.
And we still have significant earnings upside especially remaining in our core lease business.
Further as a reminder starting in the first quarter we'll move non-service pension cost below the business segment line for reporting purposes.
So going forward you'll be able to see more easily the operational performance of the segments.
We plan to publish historical information under the new segment reporting structure on or around March 1 so you'll have this in advance of our next earnings release.
This does conclude our prepared remarks this morning and we're going to move to questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Dedicated side can you just talk about where the biggest margin issue is there? And then can you also give us the margin for the quarter excluding the favorable insurance development? I'll let John Williford speak to some of the challenges in DCC and when they might carry forward a bit and the prognosis for improvement.
Yes David.
So yes we -- in the fourth quarter we had some account-specific issues that really are going to require commercial resolution with the customers.
These are mostly customers that we got with the Scully acquisition.
And we're working through these one at a time and it's going to take 1 to 2 quarters to complete that.
I think the impact of the favorable insurance in Q4 was about $400 000.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay John.
That's helpful.
Also just a few -- with just all the 3 segments which I guess will become the 2 segments can you talk about the competitive landscape both on the leasing side of things Dedicated side and the Supply Chain side and how that may differ? Well they surely do differ because you've got different competitors.
And I'll let John continue on  what he sees activity-wise and competitively.
And then Robert you can speak about what you see in leasing and maintenance and rental.
John? Yes in the logistics -- the world of logistics is a big fragmented market.
We're focusing on competing by industry group.
And as you know we have a strong automotive industry group.
We have a set of competitors there but we feel like we are certainly among the leaders.
We made this acquisition a year ago to strengthen our presence in CPG which is the biggest segment of outsourced logistics and we feel we have a very strong position there.
We have a slightly different set of competitors there than automotive with some overlap.
And right now about half of our pipeline is in CPG.
So we feel good about our presence there.
DCC once again has a slightly different set of competitors.
Some companies have done well in DCC by focusing on some niches that are adjacencies to DCC.
We're looking at some similar ideas and we're especially trying to connect working on connecting our DCC strengths with our vertical industry group strategy.
And we do find that we have a lot of good opportunities by connecting our strengths in these industry groups and offering -- with DCC and offering services where we're running fleets and warehouses or fleets and managing transportation.
We think that could be the competitive advantage for us going forward.
And I think just to further emphasize that point both our reporting and our marketing emphasis in getting that combination of fleets with warehousing and logistics op centers and just-in-time activity that's where we get the best returns because we're adding more services more revenue more return on combinations.
And when you then can include the provision of Ryder vehicles as a part of that ground transportation you have a home run for the organization.
Robert? Yes.
David I think on the full-service lease side as you probably know it's a good time to be in the business because there's a pretty significant replacement cycle that we're in the midst of that should continue for the next couple of years.
So that means a lot of activity around existing Full Service Lease customers that need to replace their -- or renew their leases.
And then also private fleet owners who need to make decisions on replacing the units that they own therefore gives us an opportunity to sell them on the benefits of the products that we sell.
So a lot of activity certainly has picked up during the year and continues to grow so we're very excited about that.
And on the rental side I think it's -- the competition I would say is consistent with what it's been in the past.
There is -- there has been over the last year much more activity in rental and again from a competition standpoint consistent with what we've seen in other years.
Our next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg you talked about miles per truck per day being down the past couple of quarters in a row and I think you attributed some of that to mix.
Was there something else going on that would drive this metric down or is it really just mix? We analyzed that and think about it because we're  always -- particularly want to be alert to is there anything negative in the way of a trend with those statistics.
We have concluded there is not.
There is not an issue and I'll let Robert comment a little bit about what you're finding closer to the business there.
Yes I'll just reiterate what Greg said.
It is down the 2.5% but it really is a bit of an anomaly relative to all the other indicators that we have in the marketplace around what we hear from our customers what we're seeing in terms of sales activity and what we're seeing in terms of rental activity.
So obviously we want to continue to monitor that closely but as of now we don't really see any real concern around that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Greg maybe I can touch a little bit on both leasing and rental here and in particular the margin profile.
I think the thought is that the margin profile in rental it's higher margin business but the utilization on that is close to 80%.
So it requires more sales and back office et cetera to support that rental piece.
But I think in theory leasing might be a lower profile but however it takes fewer sales people to sell that lease and they're sold in bulk versus the one-off spot rentals.
So could you address kind of the differences in margin profile between rental and leasing and maybe it might not be as great as some might realize.
Well while we don't disclose the specificity I think you'll probably gain some additional clues in the new reporting design supported by SEC changes that are in the appendix.
Apart from that I mean clearly a transactional product like rental you'd expect to have a better short-term margin profile that's just expected.
When you factor in all of the support costs however I don't think that marketing necessarily is that big a factor.
I think it's really more about demand price utilization.
But if you have anything else you want to add Robert I'll turn it to you.
Yes I think another way to look at it might be that over the cycle rental's margin will be better.
And depending on where it is in the cycle it could be better or worse right? Because if you're get into the downside of the cycle margins do suffer and rental when you get into the upside they do a little better.
So net-net you're going to be slightly better with the rental and lease to really accommodate for the additional risk and volatility.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
So I mean I think given that pension was the big variance here I have a few questions on that another quick one and then one question on the guide.
What was the pension status funding status at the end of the calendar year? Did you know underfunded status in dollar terms and in percent terms? Yes.
The underfunded by -- so the funded status is about 70% overall and underfunded about $500 million.
I think $500 million I don't have it here with me right now.
And what are the contribution requirements the funding requirements for '12 and the next couple of years? Next year it's about -- in 2012 it's about $80 million and then it would go up to around $110 million over the next few years after that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then last one on the pension side.
I pulled up the 10-K real quick and you only had a 7.65% assumed return on planned assets which I guess I'd take it if I could get it but in the context of most other companies it doesn't seem like it was unreasonably high.
Where did you bring that and was there a change in asset mix or anything else that drove that assumed return lower? There's a slight change in the mix but generally I think the expectations around have declined.
So we brought it down about 50 basis points overall.
50 bps.
Okay great.
And big impact from the discount rate.
Right.
The discount rate also came down about 80 bps that really impacts leverage.
You'll see that that's a big driver.
The pension equity charge has less of an impact on pension expense.
The expense is really being impacted by the fact that the returns were less this year or in 2011 and then we reduced the expected return by 50 basis points.
Okay great.
If I could flip over briefly then to the earnings walk.
When I do sort of a postmortem for 2011 it looks like you ended up putting up earnings about 24% 25% better than initially guided around $0.64 in actual terms.
By my rough math maybe half of that came from rental and half of it came from between rental and used trucks.
Versus your internal plan what were the other major sources of upside versus the 2011 walk? And how concerned are you that there's -- that you've kind of tapped out the rental and used truck earnings power here given how much stronger it was in '11 versus initially expected? Well I think first of all Commercial Rental is far from tapped out.
I think demand the market environment will remain strong.
We have really no exceptional expectations for the used trucks.
We're saying that pricing should be stable so we're not looking for a huge upside there.
And the other thing that contributed last year was acquisitions.
So we don't build acquisitions into the plan.
If we should have any this year then that's an upside.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm really disappointed I didn't get to tackle the pension question.
A question about the change in depreciation.
If you did not change your residual value assumptions based on the strength in prices where would that show up if you didn't make the change in depreciation? If we didn't make that change you would see that in future years starting into a certain extent in 2013 a little bit and then '13 and 3 or 4 years after that in higher vehicle gains because the vehicles would've come in at the lower net book value at the time we sold them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you -- could you just refresh us on the accounting rules.
How long and how strong -- or how long does the residual -- the actual results need to differ from residual before you can make that depreciation change? Well the way we do it is we're really using almost like a 5-year average rolling residual.
So we factor in current year sales and do a drop off to one 5 years ago.
So -- and that's kind of how the process works.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back to the Commercial Rental question which I thought was answered pretty well.
The 6% price just remind us historically what type of context it is.
It seems like it's not low but it's fairly conservative particularly since we keep hearing that everyone is sort of reaching new benchmarks in utilization.
How should we think about that 6% price expectation in Commercial Rental? Well I think it's -- it would be the third year of a significant price increase.
The percents were larger in previous years so 6% is not insignificant on this larger fleet after a couple of years of price increase.
And you also have to recognize that some of that has to come in being built in from new equipment or act of purchases because we're going to have to gain a couple percent just to -- in rates in rental just to cover the increase of the initial cost of more expensive equipment from the 2010 EPA mandated engines.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the miles per unit per day.
I do appreciate your explanation.
I just wanted to think about it additionally.
Is it possible that given what you've been able to do with extensions over the last couple of years that age of vehicle may be causing that as vehicles step out of service more often for maintenance events? Art this is Robert.
That could be a contributing factor but again there's just a lot of little things that could be contributing.
We'd look at it by customer and it's really -- there's really not a set pattern that you could really point and say it's that one contributing factor.
Clearly as the fleet ages you do have more days that it's out of service but I wouldn't pinpoint that as really the main driver.
And we also kind of wonder and think about as people actually add to their fleets they may be putting a little less per previous power unit on the miles.
So actually we're trying to figure out if this is a bad sign or not when you're increasing the number of units.
It may not be bad at all but as we said earlier we pay attention to it and try to -- and analyze it the best we can.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then back to the residual adjustment question with the rolling 5-year if we get these -- I mean okay even modest economic growth over the next couple of years is it fair to say that we should see given the fact that you're going to start rolling through '07 '08 and '09 that that number should continue to move favorably for you over the next few years? Yes if pricing stayed at the current levels you would expect that residuals would improve in future years also.
Yes because you can imagine in those bad years when the new bad years were rolling on a few years ago we were taking the pounding.
I'm not sure obviously Art I can't really -- we can't estimate what it would be.
Typically this is at a higher end of what you would see.
We -- usually you would see depreciation changes that could be $0.05 to $0.15 is on a little higher end of that because we did see substantial improvement in pricing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But the thought process that if we get okay economic growth going forward you're getting ready to roll through some horrific years on those sale prices so it could be somewhat of an earnings tailwind for you.
Yes that's true.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg back to the first quarter guidance.
In your comments -- if I understand that correctly it sounds like there's going to be some servicing on the rental fleet that didn't happen in the first quarter of last year that's going to be trade-off between the first quarter and the second quarter.
I was wondering if you can clarify that comment and then if you could also quantify maybe on a year-over-year basis how much that additional  expense is going to be in the first quarter? Robert? Yes Todd it's not so much just the additional  expense.
Todd we actually took the units.
We're taking the units out therefore you're not seeing the same amount of quarter sequential revenue and demand growth year -- quarter-over-quarter.
To give you an idea this year we took out 1 800 units I believe fourth quarter to the first in the rental fleet.
And last year we actually grew the rental fleet from the fourth quarter to the first.
So I think that's really what Greg was trying to allude to as an explanation for some of those sequential changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if I understand that correctly and in the context of how you guided the rental fleet we should see it come down a little bit sequentially in the first quarter but still be up year-over-year ramp up into that second and third quarter and then end the year flat year-over-year? Correct.
It will be -- on average it will be up year-over-year somewhere around 10% 10% 11%.
But we'll end the year flat in terms of unit count.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for my follow-up looking at the revenue the revenue guidance for the supply chain segment.
I guess I was a little bit surprised that you're guiding 2% operating revenue growth for 2012.
Is there something going on specifically either loss of business in one of the pieces loss of revenue at one of the pieces of that business or some clarification on why -- I guess to me that seems like a little bit lower than what I would have expected.
Yes and the fact is that we're actually selling revenue at a better rate than that.
It's a matter of actually when we're going to see it appear.
I'll let John Williford comment on that.
Yes it's a good question.
I'm glad you asked it.
2% revenue growth is less than we would want to expect.
There are couple of things holding us back.
We have some big accounts that are -- that have either sold the division or are redoing their network in some way and that's taking a few big chunks of revenue out.
Those are not -- those chunks don't have the same level of operating profit that our average business has.
There's also some expectation of a transition of some low-margin business out.
And then we have sold -- we had a really good 2011 in new sales.
We have a very strong pipeline.
Some of the big projects we sold especially at the end of 2011 have long lead times.
And we're not expecting the revenue to come on from those until -- at least the end of 2012 or into 2013.
So normally we would expect -- and I think we've said before 7% to 10% growth in this business per year.
And it is held back a little bit next year by those factors.
I think you can see it from the waterfall Greg showed that we are expecting profit growth to be significantly higher than that 2%.
Our next question is from Alex Brand with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on an earlier question that John answered about Dedicated which I think you kind of answered why maybe it wasn't growing as much we might think.
It seems like everybody wants more Dedicated but the profitability too -- I mean I hear you on the Scully piece but I would think that the other piece prior to that would've been maybe almost twice as profitable.
Is there something holding back the profitability there that could maybe improve a lot in 2012? Yes.
Okay.
I'll try and answer that as a 2-part answer.
If -- without the Scully accounts which we think we can fix through -- basically through pricing we would have had the same operating profit margin in Q4 2011 as we had in Q4 2010.
Now we think we can get that profit margin up over time.
What's happened over time is there have been cost pressures on the business and it's been very difficult to pass those along to customers.
And it's essentially what we're seeing just a little sharper version of with the Scully accounts.
Now we have good relationships with our customers.
We provide good service and we are going to be pushing over time a little harder to make sure we're compensated for the work we do.
And we would expect to see the margin over time and it takes a while but to get that margin back up above what we had in Q4 2010.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I mean I typically think of that as a cost-plus business with something like a 10% margin is that not the right way to think about it over time? Well the 10% margin if you're talking about 10% after allocating all your overhead that -- we're a ways from doing that.
We've got to get to 6% before we get to 7%.
But those are kind of the ranges of numbers we would be looking for over the next couple of years.
Our next question is from Ed Wolfe with Wolfe Trahan.
I guess this is for Robert.
Can you talk a little bit about the timing going forward of CapEx? So this will be the second year 2012 of kind of ramping CapEx and using some cash and investing back into the business.
Where do you think -- if you look out 2013 '14 when do you start to generate cash again? Well we expect -- as you saw we expect this year to still be part of the replacement cycle and the growth.
Next year if you look at OEM -- truck OEM production 2013 is an even stronger year than 2012.
So you could probably extrapolate and say we're going to be getting our fair share of that.
So capital requirement certainly on the lease fleet are going to continue to be strong.
I would expect rental either in 2013 or 2014 to really begin to slow down in terms of the amount of replacement we need to do.
But lease I would expect to continue strong next year 2013.
And then 2014 I think is when it maybe starts to level off some.
That's helpful.
And then kind of a bigger picture Greg and I know other people have asked this.
But when you think about the Full Service Lease business starting to come back in 2012 and you think about the rental at some point slowing its degree of growth but still being strong how do you think about the 5-year contracts and the pricing? Pricing feels like it's good now but you have some -- if you go back to 2007 2008 it's not so strong.
How do you think about the overall margins of FMS with these changes as you go forward? When you're talking about pricing not being as strong in the softer economic periods that would relate to rental.
The FSL the Full Service Lease pricing that we maintained even during the downturn because of the standards that would apply when we had the EVA requirements for -- on a per vehicle basis.
So I think pricing is not expected to move down in combination or in either.
You would expect pricing to go up just because we have to maintain our spreads and margins and returns and lease plus the equipment is more expensive and the same in rental.
Over time our expectation for the overall return to business we expect to continue to inch up.
The money that we spend now and continue to spend on investments and technology productivity efficiency sales and marketing innovation we think that helps our returns in the longer term.
In addition someday markets are going to come back the economy's going to be healthier and we're not going to have these headwinds with pension either.
And a lot of that is attributed in FMS.
So we continue to believe we think quite reasonably and conservatively that we're going to return to not only high and record levels of total corporate EPS but continued bottom line improvement in FMS for a quantity of reasons.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Just last thing can you give some form of guidance on D&amp;A and interest expense for the year in 2012? I thought I heard you say D&amp;A might even be down.
Did I hear -- I don't know how that can be though.
Yes no no.
I'm not -- no it's going to be up significantly right? I mean you see from the -- from our slides that we gave guidance around operating cash flow.
You can see that's up a couple hundred million year-over-year.
That's driven by a combination of improved earnings and then more so by higher depreciation expense.
So you're going to see depreciation move up a couple hundred million probably -- $150 million $200 million.
Off of the base of 872-ish? Yes.
Okay and how about on the interest expense side off of the base of 133? Interest will be up because the amount of our debt outstanding is higher in 2012 than it was in '11.
The interest rate we're forecasting kind of comparable to what you saw in the fourth quarter so downright 4% range maybe a little bit higher but just around there.
So you'll see it go up just because of the volume increase.
And how much is fixed and variable at this point of the debt? We're about 40% variable at the end of the year and it will probably be around there for most of the year maybe a little bit lower.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Greg I just want to ask I guess a conceptual question related to the guidance.
If I can go back to '05 and I compare that to where you ended the year in 2011 the EPS base was comparable some puts and takes with pension and acquisitions.
But if you strip those out it looks like your core guidance when you're sitting at the end of 2005 looking at 2006 the core guidance from an operating profit line was low teens but now we're looking at kind of upper teens.
And I'm just curious if that's emblematic of some of the secular opportunity in front of you.
How much of that is aided by maybe maintenance expense falling here at the near term and rental being strong? Can you talk a little bit about that kind of that delta of 5 percentage points or so on a core operating performance basis? And when you talk about low teens you were talking about growth in EPS? Research Division</strong> Yes growth in EPS.
Looking at the guidance that you gave at the end of '05 from that base of 341 the midpoint was about 12% growth.
And now a number of ways to normalize for but it looks like it's -- and certainly north of 15% on a core basis.
Yes and that was obviously -- well we thought it was a much healthier economic environment.
We didn't know what was coming around the corner.
I would say now I think we've got even a larger more stable base of customers.
I think we even have more service offerings and what we had clearly going for us then.
But even when you strip it out all of that pension activity I think to get now to the mid- mid to upper teens we think is a reflection of what we see in the way of market opportunity and our ability to capture it.
So when you think about the growth opportunities whether it's in that FMS side and private fleets or the expense and the complexity of FMS equipment or the value proposition and quantity of offerings we now have in the supply chain in industry segments we didn't have before we think -- I think the simplest answer to your question is mid to high single-digit bottom line growth is a reflection of our ability to capture real growth market opportunities and trends that we think we're better now equipped to go after than we were 5 6 7 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That makes sense.
And then lastly on the rental side a big contribution assumed this year in the guidance and obviously that worked against you in the '06 '07 time period.
What's different about that network today that allows you to be more responsive in terms of reducing that fleet or otherwise protecting yourself from some of the negative leverage that can materialize if trends were to weaken? Well I think for sizing right-sizing re-sizing I think that's a matter of continued expertise over time that our centralized Asset Management Group has been able to do.
So I think that works well for us.
The other thing that's different in rental since that last downturn is we probably have -- when we have more rental customers we have more national account customers.
One of the things that we had to do in that rental downturn was to do a lot more intense focused scrambling cold account calling to try to make up what the market was taking away from us generally.
And I think we've established a lot more relationships have a more effective contact sales organization and we may just have more regular renters than we used to have.
And I think that's a plus for the future.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Sal Vitale on for Jeff Kauffman.
So just a couple of quick questions on the commercial side.
I understand you don't break out the Commercial Rental profitability.
But earlier you made a comment you said you think you're far from tapped out in the profitability gains in the rental business.
So if I just think about it in terms of from the trough what the profitability was there to the typical peak how far along do you think you are in terms of the margin expansion? Are you 70% of the way there 50%? I'll let Robert try to guess from memory because I know we don't have that page right in front of us.
Yes I -- certainty the year-over-year growth last year was -- 2011 versus 2010 was a very strong year.
But I think to Greg's point there's still a lot of opportunity and we still expect in 2012 to have rental be a significant contributor to the year-over-year growth in earnings.
So maybe the easiest way to look at it is we expected to still grow this year in 2012 not at the same percentage clearly as it did in 2011 but still a strong contributor.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess the other question is on -- looking here are you saying  the utilization is -- was 79% for the fourth quarter? Just refresh my memory what is the -- historically what is the peak utilization you typically get in the business? Yes it's -- we're at that at this point.
It's 79%.
We're right around the peak.
We usually say for the full year peak is somewhere -- can be somewhere between 76% and 78%.
So when we're at 78% 79% we're at peak.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess then any further margin expansion is really going to come from increased pricing and fixed cost absorption on more units? Demand and pricing correct.
Demand from where -- demand that -- which comes along with more units and pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a last thing on the higher maintenance cost is that something you can quantify what it was in the fourth quarter? Yes we really haven't got into that point.
But maybe what you can think about is maintenance cost continues to be headwind throughout the whole year including the fourth quarter.
We expect that -- because of the fleet age we expect that to continue through probably the first 3 quarters at least of this year and then at the end of this year and certainly going into '13 as the fleet starts to get younger we'd start to see the benefit of maintenance costs coming down.
And if you were to recall the 2011 waterfall slide when we were together this time a year ago there was a big red bar that we highlighted for the impact of the older fleet and therefore the maintenance cost and that was like $0.30 EPS.
So this year you don't see that bar.
It's now buried within the FMS contractual.
So although there's a potential red segment the net of FMS contractual is up significantly.
So we're eating away at that age issue and over time it will turn positive too.
Our next question is from Brad Delco with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I understand leasing rates have certainly been strong and there seems to be the message that there's strong interest.
Are there any customers that are seeing these higher rates with the price of equipment and seeing any sort or of sticker shock? And if there are I mean is that driving any business away? Or I would expect maybe potentially driving more business to Dedicated.
Have you seen any of that activity in your business? Well you saw it over the last year.
You saw that a lot of customers stayed with rental for a period of time.
We also had a pretty significant increase in term extensions so certainly customers over the last couple of years have done as much as they can to delay if you will the increase.
But what we've seen I would say probably over the last 6 months is customers now making that commitment to either lease or obviously if they have to buy they've got to go out and spend the incremental dollars on new equipment.
So it is -- it has had an impact in there.
I think it's delayed some of the decisions but in terms of when they have to make the decision the choices are either you're going to lease a new piece of equipment or you're going to have to go out and purchase one also at the higher price.
I think the outsourcing decision relative to the sticker shock that you raised what becomes foremost in the customer's minds are the certainty of the maintenance in a more expensive and complex world and actually have a lease that works effectively rather than they also in addition to maintenance having to go out and get the equipment.
So I think for those customers who still prefer to have their own drivers they are going to continue to look as an outsourcing choice the Full Service Lease with the maintenance.
When they reach that next step and that comes at different times over time and they decide "Why am I doing and of this?" Whether it's for CSA reasons or complexity or cost and then one outsource the driver that's when they move on up the DCC.
Jeff one other thing that's helping with the decision is that there is an improvement in fuel efficiency with the newer vehicles that's helping to offset some of that increase in cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's great color.
And then I guess my second question may be more for Art.
You talked about that equity charge having a pretty significant impact on your total obligations to equity and it doesn't capture growth.
I guess if -- absent that charge I mean would there be areas of growth maybe on the acquisition front more this year that we could expect? And how comfortable are you with that level? And I guess the read I have was we could see growth potentially slow because of where that metric stands today versus where it was a year ago.
I don't know what I would say.
I mean obviously our plan doesn't contemplate acquisitions in it but as we look at our current level of leverage we believe we have capacity to handle organic growth in the business which we expect here over the term as well as a more typical acquisitions spend.
We spend I think a little bit more in 2011 just because of how things worked out with Hill Hire and the like.
The typical acquisition spend we see as still being available to us.
Also keep in mind that as we -- even in this year of pretty significant spending leverage is not really moving up that much.
So the business tends to de-lever pretty fast in that sense.
Our final question today is from Dan Moore with Scopus Consulting Group.
It's Scopus Asset Management.
Quick question.
Could you remind us of what your full year 2011 guidance was originally relative to where you came in this call last year? Last year? It was $280 million to $290 million and we came in at $349 million.
And then I guess the concern anyone might have at this point is leverage.
And I think there's a lot of -- there's been a lot of discussion around consumer rental.
And anybody that looks at the lease side of the business can obviously see a lot of opportunity over the next couple of years.
Can you remind us though how you're thinking about the potential for margin improvement over the next let's say 2 years in lease? And what difference is if any there may be in the cycle relative to your previous peak? Just trying to kind of put our arms around what a peak EPS outlook might be for the company as we move through the cycle.
Yes there's a lot of tentacles to that question.
I think on a broad look in the last couple of years people said "When do you think you'll get back to your peak earnings?" And we said over the next couple of years without being precise and that was part of the value of the chart on Page 25 that if you strip out the positive and negative impacts of service pension cost over the years this is the year when we're going to hit our peak again.
We expect to continue to be able to increase not only comparable EPS but the bottom line margin return.
You specifically talked about -- I think mentioned Full Service Lease or FMS and we've got several hundred basis points to continue to improve upon which we believe we can get to especially when you get the stability of the larger lease fleet and the lower maintenance costs from a more normal younger average lease fleet.
See we're not there yet either.
So that gives you a few concepts of why we think that's doable in addition to being able to improve the bottom-line operating leverage every time we do an acquisition we're putting units over an existing network every time that we add incremental growth new sales with good EVA they're being spread over an incremental network.
So we think reasonably those items plus productivity efficiency market opportunities they're going to continue to move up.
So if you want to add anything else on FMS Robert that I haven't touched upon.
No that's it.
I mean the fleet -- as the lease fleet gets larger and newer that's where you're going to see the margin expansion.
This does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Swienton for any closing remarks.
Well as I look at my watch it's now about 12:15.
So we're a little bit over our time but we had our longer presentation.
I think we've been able to entertain everyone's questions.
Thank you for joining us I appreciate it and have a good safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good  morning and welcome to Ryder's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Robert Sanchez President and Chief Operating Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
Today we'll recap our first quarter 2012 results review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook for the business.
And then after our initial remarks we will open up the call for questions.
So let me get right into an overview of our first quarter results and beginning on Page 4 for those of you who are following on the PowerPoint.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.68 for the first quarter in 2012 up from $0.50 in the prior year period.
The first quarter results included a $0.09 net benefit related to the resolution of a tax matter partially offset by a restructuring charge related to the Hill Hire acquisition.
The prior year's first quarter included a $0.01 acquisition-related restructuring charge.
So excluding these items in each period comparable EPS was $0.59 in the first quarter 2012 up from $0.51 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.08 or 16% over the prior year period.
First quarter EPS was slightly above the high end of our forecast range of $0.55 to $0.58.
Overall results in Fleet Management were generally in line with our expectations and benefited from accretive acquisitions organic growth of the lease fleet strong Used Vehicle sales and higher commercial rental performance.
Supply chain generated better-than-expected earnings improvement driven by higher volumes and new business.
Total revenue grew 8% from the prior year.
Operating revenue which excludes the FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 9% from the prior year.
The increase in revenue reflects both the benefit of organic growth and acquisitions.
Page 5 includes some additional financial statistics for the first quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined slightly to 50.9 million.
During the first quarter we purchased approximately 223 000 shares at an average price of $53.38 under our 2 million share anti-dilutive program which expires in December 2013.
As of March 31 there were 51.3 million shares outstanding of which 50.9 million are currently included in the diluted share calculation.
The first quarter 2012 tax rate was 26.9% which reflects the favorable resolution of a tax matter related to prior years.
The prior year's tax rate was 40.7% which was negatively impacted last year by a tax law change in Illinois.
Excluding the tax benefit item in 2012 comparable tax rate would have been 37.1% versus last year's rate of 40.7%.
The adjusted return on capital was 5.6% versus 5.1% in the prior year as growth in earnings outpaced growth in capital.
We have a positive spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital of 30 basis points for the trailing 12 months and this represents an improvement in the spread of approximately 100 basis points from the prior year.
I'll turn now to Page 6 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the first quarter in each of the business segments.
In Fleet Management total revenue grew 9% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes a 7% increase in fuel services revenue reflecting higher fuel cost pass-throughs.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 10% mainly due to the Hill Hire acquisition and higher organic Commercial Rental and Full Service Lease revenue.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and contract maintenance was up by 6%.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 6% versus the prior year due to fleet growth and higher prices on replacement vehicles.
The average lease fleet size increased 9% from the prior year's first quarter largely due to acquisitions.
On an organic basis excluding the acquisitions the global lease fleet increased sequentially from the fourth quarter by approximately 700 vehicles reflecting both improved new lease sales activity and higher retention rates.
This represents the second consecutive quarter of organic lease fleet growth.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on the U.S.
lease power units were flat compared to the prior year.
Commercial Rental revenue increased 26% reflecting higher pricing improved global demand on a larger fleet as well as acquisitions.
The average rental fleet increased 31%.
It was up by 13% excluding the acquisitions.
While total demand increased strongly it grew somewhat below our expectations and therefore power fleet utilization declined to 68.9% from 72.5% in the prior year on a larger fleet.
Global pricing on power units was up 5% versus the prior year which was generally in line with our expectations in the quarter.
In Fleet Management we also saw better Used Vehicle results during the quarter reflecting a continued strong pricing and demand environment.
And Robert Sanchez will discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Improved FMS results were partially offset by higher costs to maintain a slightly older lease fleet increased vehicle out-servicing costs and commissions on used sales.
Earnings before tax in Fleet Management were up 20%.
Fleet Management earnings as a percent of operating revenue increased by 50 basis points to 6.4% in the first quarter.
As a reminder beginning this quarter we moved the non-service portion of pension costs below the business segment line for reporting purposes.
We believe this provides better visibility to the segment's operating performance as well as to the performance of the frozen pension plans.
Historical results under this new presentation are included in the appendix for your reference.
Turning to the Supply Chain Solutions segment on Page 7 which now includes all Dedicated Contract Carriage activity.
Both total and operating revenues were up 7%.
Revenue increased due to both higher freight volumes and new business as well as a 1-month benefit from the Scully acquisition.
The strongest growth came from the automotive retail and consumer packaged goods industry verticals including 13% growth in the Dedicated Contract Carriage product.
Improved earnings in the segment were driven by higher volumes and new sales.
In total SCS earnings before tax were up 8% from the prior year.
Supply chain's earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were unchanged at 4.5% compared to the prior period.
Page 8 shows the business segment view of our income statement which I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 9 year-to-date gross capital expenditures totaled $787 million which is up $339 million from the prior year.
This was driven primarily by purchases of new lease vehicles which are under long-term customer contracts.
Lease vehicle spending was up $324 million from the prior year mainly reflecting improved sales and replacement activity.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was up $18 million due to both refreshment and planned growth of the rental fleet.
Capital spending for both lease and rental also reflects higher investment costs on new vehicles related to the 2010 engine technology changes.
These higher costs are being priced in the customer rates.
Our full-year gross capital expenditures remain on track with a $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion range we provided previously.
However the mix of this capital spend by product line may change modestly.
We're seeing better-than-planned acceptance of new vehicles by lease customers and therefore anticipate less usage of used equipment to fulfill new lease sales.
Conversely with somewhat lower rental utilization levels in the first quarter we plan to spend a bit less on new rental purchases.
Given these trends we expect lease spending will be modestly higher and rental spending will be modestly lower than our prior forecast.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $94 million up $23 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects higher Used Vehicle pricing and an increase in the number of units sold compared to the prior year.
Including these sales net capital expenditures increased by $316 million to almost $700 million.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of $186 million during the first quarter down $31 million from the prior year.
Higher earnings and depreciation net of gains were more than offset by changes in working capital.
The increase in working capital was driven by planned cash payments specific to the first quarter.
Depreciation increased by approximately $20 million.
As the year progresses and the fleet continues to grow we expect year-over-year depreciation comparisons to widen leading to a full-year increase of approximately $120 million.
Including higher proceeds from Used Vehicle sales we generated approximately $296 million of total cash during the quarter down slightly from the prior year.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by $158 million to just over $470 million.
The company had negative free cash flow of $175 million during the quarter.
Free cash flow was down $165 million from the prior year's negative free cash flow due mainly to higher planned investments in vehicles that will generate revenue and earnings in 2012 and future years.
Free cash flow in the first quarter is in line with the full-year forecast range of negative $400 million to $460 million we previously communicated.
Page 11 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of approximately $3.7 billion are up almost $210 million compared to year-end 2011.
The increased debt level is largely due to higher vehicle capital spending.
As expected total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 267% up from 261% at the end of 2011 and at the lower end of our target range of 250% to 300%.
Our leverage ratio should increase in the second quarter as we complete our seasonal purchase of rental vehicles and then decline in the second half of the year towards our prior forecast range of 261% to 265%.
At these levels we have the balance sheet flexibility to support expected organic capital spending and acquisitions activity.
Our equity balance at the end of the quarter was a little under $1.4 billion.
It's up by $53 million versus year-end 2011.
The equity increase was driven by higher earnings and currency translation adjustments.
At this point I'll hand the call to our President and COO Robert Sanchez to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 13 summarizes key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our global Used Vehicle inventory for sale was 8 700 vehicles up from 5 000 units in the first quarter of 2011.
This increase in inventory was driven by a higher number of vehicles out-serviced during the quarter reflecting both increased lease replacement activity as well as refreshment and out-servicing of some rental units.
Used Vehicle inventories are forecast to remain at the somewhat elevated level throughout the year largely as a result of the higher lease replacement cycle.
Reflecting strong market demand for Used Vehicles we sold 5 000 vehicles during the quarter which is up 22% compared to the prior year.
Improved demand is a result of both relatively better market conditions and the desire of some buyers to obtain pre-2010 engines.
We saw a continued strength in Used Vehicle pricing at levels somewhat above our expectations for the quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 proceeds per vehicle were up 20% on tractors and 3% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor and truck pricing were both up 1%.
At the end of the quarter 12 200 vehicles were classified as no longer earning revenue.
This is up 4 800 units from the prior year reflecting a higher Used Vehicle inventory.
The number of lease contracts on existing vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term increased versus last year.
This is consistent with the higher volume of renewal activity associated with the heavier lease replacement cycle.
Early terminations of leased vehicles declined by about 320 units or 36%.
Early terminations were less than half what they were 2 years ago and were at the lowest level in the past decade.
This continues to be a very positive indicator of improved lease demand.
Our rental fleet was up 31% including acquisitions or 13% organically in the quarter.
We're now expecting the full-year rental fleet to increase around 9% somewhat below our prior forecast.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to cover our outlook and forecast.
Thanks Robert.
And finally turning to Page 15 let me cover our outlook and forecast.
In Fleet Management we saw a continued improvement in results from our transactional products Commercial Rental and Used Vehicle sales.
While growth in Commercial Rental activity was somewhat less robust than we originally anticipated we saw solid organic increases in both total global demand and pricing in the mid to upper single-digit range in the first quarter.
Rental activity has been stable with typical seasonal improvement into early April.
In the Used Vehicle area due to a heavier replacement cycle and out-servicing activity we expect Used Vehicle inventories to remain at current levels this year.
Based on market demand we anticipate that Used Vehicle sales will remain strong and above our original forecast and that pricing will be generally stable.
In Full Service Lease our fleet size has now grown organically for the second consecutive quarter and in line with our expectations.
Customers appear to be increasingly confident in signing full-term agreements on the new engine technology.
Given this trend along with the higher cost and complexity of new vehicles we expect increased new lease sales to continue this year.
In supply chain we expect to see continued increases in new sales and activity levels including improvements in our Dedicated Contract Carriage results.
We anticipate overall supply chain results will be somewhat above our original forecast.
Given all of these factors we're raising our full-year comparable EPS forecast from a range of $4 to $4.10 to a new range of $4.02 to $4.12.
This represents an improvement of 15% to 18% from the $3.49 last year.
We're also providing a second quarter comparable EPS forecast of $1.07 to $1.12 versus the prior EPS of $0.92.
That does conclude our prepared remarks this morning and we will now move to our Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg we saw some softness in Class A truck orders in the first quarter and I wanted to see I know that you guys have a mix of vehicles in your fleet.
But was that reflected in your Full Service Lease business not and maybe being quite as strong as it could be? I didn't know if there were customers looking to take advantage last year of depreciation.
And then maybe they took the time off in the first quarter from ordering and you might see an acceleration later in this year.
Just talk about I guess how you see the Class A order market reflecting Ryder's CapEx and Full Service Lease? Yes I think it certainly looks as though some customers or potential customers may have done some purchasing at the end of last year.
I think that that impact to us though may have been more regarding the Commercial Rental than for customers who may have been moving toward Full Service Lease.
So if there were customers last year that had been using rental equipment more heavily and then last year because of the depreciation environment that they could take advantage of bought their equipment and now was delivered I think that may have had a bit of an impact a little bit on rental.
But I think for lease and for us I don't see a strong correlation necessarily between what had occurred among the OEMs who were manufacturing compared to what we're doing because we've had again good contractual lease sales and growth and organic growth in Full Service Lease units.
So I would say that that trend portends well for a pickup throughout this year whether or not OEM production really accelerates or not.
I think that for our value proposition to our customers I think it's going to remain very strong.
And because of cost and complexity I think we're well-positioned and we expect growth in that product line to continue through this year and forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then on the supply chain side given your relationships with GM and Toyota specifically have they commented at all or have you guys looked into the potential supply disruption from that plant explosion and given the [indiscernible] of resin? Yes.
And I think that was one in Germany? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
John Williford do you want to comment if at all? Sure.
I mean it's pretty early.
I know the OEMs are all looking at alternative sources of supply for those materials.
We don't -- we're not forecasting any shortages that would affect our volumes at this time but we're certainly talking to the OEMs about that potential.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned the 700 unit growth in the leasing that was organic in the first quarter.
Can you remind us what it was in the prior quarter? And then also is there a seasonal pattern to the lease growth? Yes I think the 700 is an increase organically from the fourth quarter.
And it was 1 000 up at fourth.
It was 1 000 units up between the third and the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there a seasonal pattern there? Or as your book runs off in 2012 it should -- any quarter should be particularly stronger than the other? Yes.
I'm not sure we call it seasonal.
Maybe lumpier is a better word.
You could have some quarters where it comes in a little bit stronger than others.
And that really just has to do with the timing of when customers decide to make decisions because even if a vehicle terms out in January they might extend it a few months before they make a decision.
So you could have some variability in the lease growth just based on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a different topic.
You mentioned some strong growth in Dedicated and I understand that you've changed the reporting there a bit.
But if I remember correctly the fourth quarter Dedicated saw some challenges.
Is this one quarter of John's magic [indiscernible] that's going on there or -- a little color of what's going on at Dedicated.
Go ahead John.
I like the phrase John's magic.
Yes we've made -- we talked about having some specific challenges with specific customers that we are working on and actually probably the third and fourth quarters last year.
And I think the DCC team has made a lot of good progress on those customers.
And between that and some growth we've seen good revenue growth in DCC or the legacy DCC and even better profit growth.
Our next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg in your outlook you talked about Commercial Rental being somewhat less robust than previously anticipated but your leasing reflects increased new and renewal sales activity.
Is this an indication that we are seeing rental demand flow into leasing do you think? Perhaps to some degree.
Although when you have 26% revenue growth in Commercial Rental with 5% increase in price year-over-year I would say that's still on a very very healthy trajectory.
I think over time you can expect some decline in that growth rate that would be natural but at the same time a faster acceleration in the Full Service Lease.
And I think that for those who have been following and watching and waiting I think the concern may have been that rental would fall farther faster before lease picked up.
And I think for the quarter and for the full year as we're forecasting rental will probably be a little lower than we forecasted when we did our business plan.
But the other parts of the business are going to be stronger.
And that includes to some degree lease and Used Vehicle sales and supply chain.
So I think the diversity of the portfolio of our company is working very well.
So even if rental slowed down a bit and as I say when you're in mid-20% growth with price increases that's still very healthy.
I think on balance we're in very good shape.
Research Division</strong> Great.
It sounds like the cycle is playing out.
And a separate question you guys are on acquisition spree about a year ago.
How does the M&amp;A pipeline look today? Well while you call it a spree it's because sometimes things just all come together at the right time and it always is about timing and willingness.
I think as you know we are always interested and active.
We don't speculate or comment about what might occur.
All I think is appropriate for us to say is that we continue to talk to and have possibilities that may come to fruition at some point but nothing firm to discuss yet.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions here.
When I look at the miles driven calculation and it was flattish in the quarter.
But this is the fourth quarter running where it's been negative.
Just thinking about that.
Does that get impacted as you grow the fleet? Can it have a slight negative pinch to that? Robert? Yes Art this is Robert.
I think yes the answer is yes.
As you have a lot of churn in the fleet in the lease fleet when you have a lot of units coming in and a lot of units going out that could for a period of time have an impact on that metric because you could have a unit that comes into the fleet and only runs for half the month yet the mileage -- you're going to get half the miles but you're going to get the unit count completely.
So there is some noise potentially from that.
As I said last quarter I think this still continues to be a metric that we're watching closely but there's no -- there's really not a lot of other metrics that are pointing to anything any type of decline that we should worry about.
So...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just a follow-up to that.
Then I mean if you're flattish and you're having that impact theoretically is it possible that actually on an apples-to-apples basis mileage driven was up in the quarter? It could be.
It could be slightly up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my third question on the higher vehicle the vehicles held for sale that higher count a little bit higher than we would have thought.
And I to think you addressed that well but just a couple questions related to that.
One can you refresh our memory on kind of where that range is that you feel most comfortable in that inventory? And secondly I hope this comes across correctly but if you wanted to push -- is demand there if you really wanted to move price where you could move those vehicles out? Or is -- in your commentary about that being kind of flattish going forward is a function of you really holding tight on price and just the churn that you're seeing in the fleet as is? That's a good question Art.
The range is -- 6 000 to 8 000 is our stated range for the inventory.
So we're slightly above the high end of the range.
The good news is that the market continues to be very strong for the vehicles that we have.
And yes we are holding on price because in this environment with such strong demand we think it's the right thing to do.
You have to remember that the vehicles that we're selling in our inventory are typically 7 8 years old.
Therefore many of them are pre-'07 technology which makes them highly desirable in the marketplace.
So we've taken the approach which we think is right of holding price for a period of time and it seems to be working well.
We have some opportunities.
You might see us move -- bring price down a little bit to move large volumes of units but generally that's the strategy.
And what we're expecting is that these inventory levels will remain high for the balance of the year but then start coming down as we get into 2013.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Just so I understand.
So it sounds like the average number of Used Vehicle in inventory there are 2 200 vehicles year-over-year but you had 1 700 more vehicles.
You've written leases for 1 700 more vehicles which I suspect had trades with them.
So is that -- I mean is that the way to think about? Is that -- your inventories are 2 200 higher but a lot of that is just because you're starting to see the long-term lease business kick in? I'm not sure I understood the question but I thought I heard you mention trades in there.
We don't do trades back to the OEMs.
We...
Or off lease.
The vehicles are coming off lease so they get put back to you.
And you're holding them in inventory.
The majority of these vehicles as you can see early terminations are way down.
So these are all vehicles that have run to the end of their lease term and then they go into our used truck inventory.
That's correct.
And then we put them into resale.
So since we have a higher lease replacement cycle this year and we're also refreshing the rental fleet we have a higher-than-normal flow of units into the used truck centers and then we are now working to move through those.
Okay.
You stated it clearer than I did.
Okay.
So that makes sense.
It's just not rare.
I guess one thing to point that jumped out a little bit Page 22 extensions were up year-over-year in the quarter.
Can you just describe why that was the case and what read across or what conclusions should we draw from that? Yes that's actually a simple answer.
The reason they're up is because we have more units that are coming up for renewal this year.
So the increase is proportional to the number of -- the increase in number of units coming up for renewal.
So as a percentage of total numbers of total units coming up for renewal it's about the same.
They're getting the same percentage of customers deciding to extend.
Our next question is from Brad Delco with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe Greg I think the question was asked earlier but I was maybe a little -- still has questions on it.
The data we've seen in terms of kind of demand for equipment in general even with some trailer data that came out today seems to be relatively weak.
Is there any way to kind of -- is there any correlation between some of the weakness we're seeing in order data versus maybe the sequential trends you've seen and whether it's commercial rental or leasing activity in the quarter? Generally there is a broad correlation between activity and manufacturing and what we're doing for lease depending on periods of time of replacement in our business and what the broad market has done generally.
It may be more loosely correlated.
Robert if you want to add any other color to that.
Yes I think what Greg said earlier where we saw it the most we believe was in the impact to our rental fleet.
We did see in our lease sales January and February came in a little weaker than what we had expected but March came in stronger than we expected.
So net-net for the quarter we were pretty close to where our lease sales -- the lease sales we were expecting.
So that's probably -- those are probably the 2 areas where we saw some correlation but probably not to the magnitude that the OEMs are showing.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Appreciate the color on that.
And then again another question I apologize if this was addressed.
But I guess the changing guidance in terms of probably lower outlook on rental first and the higher outlook on leasing activity is that mostly driven by a higher renewal rate or their new customers? Or what's really sort of driving that change? And then I guess my add-on to that is what's the seasonality in terms of your expectations for lease for the year? Are there any quarters where more come up for renewal than others? Well what we're seeing is 2 things.
You're right we're seeing rental coming in a little softer.
It's going to be offset by slightly better Used Vehicles and some lease activity.
I think the -- what we are expecting is that more of the lease demand will be met with new vehicles versus redeployed units as customers are getting more comfortable with the new technology especially as it relates to our fuel efficiency.
So we are now forecasting -- as we think about CapEx we're forecasting more of the lease sales to come from new equipment which would mean slightly higher CapEx on the lease side.
And that's really what Art was alluding to.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But is that new customers or is that renewing old customers that are coming off prior leases? It's both.
But I think that what Art was referring to was the growth capital which is really the new customers.
So we're expecting more of the new customers to use new equipment versus using redeployed equipment.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
So just wanted to ask a question about the gains on sale of $22 million in the quarter which increased a lot sequentially from where we've been.
Is that a sustainable run rate given the high number of units for sale? Maybe just give some color of what's in your guidance for gains on sale.
And then maybe related to that the higher mix of lease CapEx and a little bit less on the rental CapEx how does that in any way impact your thoughts up or down for 2013 CapEx? Let me -- this is Robert.
Let me address the question around gains.
First of all the improvement in gains is because of the higher volumes and obviously the higher pricing that we're getting.
We are expecting that to continue throughout the year.
We're expecting the Used Vehicle pricing to stay remain stable at where it is today.
There is an offset though that I want to make sure that you're aware of is that the impact on earnings from Used Vehicles the gains is one component which I think the year-over-year improvement was $10 million $11 million.
There is an increase in carrying costs because of the higher inventory.
And that increase in carrying costs year-over-year is about $4 million $5 million.
So the net impact is more like a $5 million year-over-year improvement.
That addresses the used truck question? Your other question was around CapEx for 2013.
I think it's safe to say that rental CapEx for 2013 will probably be down from this year as we are assuming we're -- based on where we are in the cycle we're going to see us slow that down into 2013.
Lease CapEx we expect to continue to be strong as we continue to renew equipment and to grow the lease fleets.
So without really getting into all or really even knowing the details of that yet I think that's the general trend.
Okay that's very helpful.
And just one other question.
If we look at the Commercial Rental fleet utilization which I think dropped a few points from the past few quarters how should we think about that impacting leasing or FMS margins? And is there a target for the Commercial Rental utilization? I guess the new line that we're getting the cost of lease and rental is a little bit higher than we thought.
And maybe just some color on how we should think about that line going forward as the leasing revenue accelerates and maybe the rental revenue decelerates against some really tough comps.
Yes I think ideally we'd like to have the utilization as we rigorously define it.
And I think everyone in the call knows how we do that that we'd like to be 70% 71% 72%.
When you get to be mid-70s and above you're really overheated and you're short of vehicles where we are now at 69.7% is not a reason for concern.
But I think the important thing is that as we have done we closely monitor that we are very effective and proactive in rightsizing that fleet because we don't want to have excess carrying cost.
So we want to have continued strong revenue growth we want to meet customer demand.
We don't want to turn away customers nor do we want to have too much equipment sitting.
So there's an art and science in asset management.
And we think that we've even taken some proactive actions now to right size the fleet.
So I think going forward that takes care of kind of the way we'll handle rental and lease Full Service Lease.
We'll take all we can get when we are signing good healthy positive EVA kind of revenue because that is the value and the solidity and the solidness of a long-term revenue earnings and cash flow stream.
Yes I think the question I mean directionally as we start putting more leased units in and lease becomes an even bigger percentage of the portfolio I would expect the percentage there the margin percentage to go down slightly since rental has a higher margin than lease would have.
So directionally you would see that cost -- the cost would move up the margin would move down slightly as we put in more lease into our portfolio.
That makes a lot of sense.
Just one quick follow-up to that.
The utilization in Commercial Rental are you back above 70% in second quarter with some changes you made in the fleet? Yes.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Speaking with the Commercial Rental utilization theme I'm kind of curious here in the first quarter.
Does it feel like that the utilization was impacted was just the size of the fleet being a little bit too heavy going into the quarter? Was it something different in the economy or with your customers? It sounds like there was a couple of things going on.
I just wanted a little bit more color as to what you really felt impacted the utilization in the first quarter relative to what you've been trending.
Yes.
Well in January we really saw no issue at all.
It was exactly right about where we expected.
And in fact right into the first or second week of February it was just a solid.
That's when we had earnings call therefore had no commentary.
As February went on as February mid-February to the end  February then it started to drop off.
Then March picked up again a little bit more normal and seasonal.
And I think April is the same.
So we can't be too overly concerned about one month or even one quarter.
It's when you see a multi-quarter trend that you then will take more severe action.
But even with a slight lower-than-expected performance then we're going to do some adjustments proactively.
So if that helps to give you a little more color on that.
Research Division</strong> No that really does and that's kind of the direction I was going with the question.
And along the same lines with that the timing with what you saw with the lease activity did that follow with what you saw with rentals? So a rental slowdown at the end of February was that when you saw a little bit of a pickup in the leasing? Or was leasing building strength regardless of what was going on with rental? I think leasing may have been more independent but it's certainly been picking up all through the quarter and continues to do so.
And we expect it to continue to do so.
The other -- the only thing I would add to that Todd is that lease miles per unit the metric that we follow which was relatively flat for the quarter it was slightly down in January down in February and then up in March so during the quarter.
Now as I mentioned to Art that could -- you could get some -- a little bit of volatility there as units are coming in and out of the fleet but for the general trend.
I think that was -- might be an interesting point also.
Research Division</strong> No that helps as well.
And then the follow-up I had there was an earlier question about the performance and supply chain.
When I look at the operating revenue being up 7% here in the quarter definitely good revenue growth.
However when I look at the operating margins they are relatively flat on a year-over-year basis and down a little bit sequentially.
How should I think about the leverage in supply chain? Is there something that was going on with mix? Or how come maybe -- I guess I would have expected a little bit more leverage on the margin line relative to the revenue growth.
Yes I think we pointed out in prior years the seasonality you'll see in supply chain margins.
So the -- there is a little bit of leverage because we have some overhead.
As we grow we should -- our overall margin should come up a little bit.
And I think we've shown that in the past few years.
And we've talked about a target of 6% for a full year and we're getting closer and closer to that.
We expect to get closer to that this year.
So we're right on track with our margin we're right where we expected to be.
And I think if you point out the sequential difference that's all a season -- a seasonality difference.
Our next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> When going back to the SCS division and the Dedicated Contracts related to the Scully acquisition I mean last quarter you were looking for kind of 1% to 2% growth for the year.
I know some of those repricing of contracts happened a little bit faster than previously expected this quarter.
But the question is how much of those contracts are left to reprice and if that activity is reflected in guidance now or if we should expect guidance to tick up over the course of the year as those contracts are kind of right sized? Yes.
Okay let me -- so let me go back a little bit.
We talked about 2% on an expectation for the year.
Last quarter we talked about an expectation for the year of about 2% growth and that's certainly lower than what we think the business will grow at over the long-term which we've said is more like 7% to 10%.
And we described that difference between let's say 7% to 10% long-term expectation and our expectation for 2012 of 2%.
That was really a function of some big customers who had either some network changes or had sold off some business units.
And that was giving us some -- a chunk -- taking a couple of chunks of business away from us this year.
We still expect those chunks to go away and some of it already has.
We beat the number the expectation of 2% this quarter because we brought some new business on faster than we expected and we did better on some new business.
We got more growth early in the startups than we had expected.
And we had some existing customers with a little stronger volume than we expected.
If you look at the year I think we're kind of expecting instead of that 2% not being all the way back to the 7% to 10% but maybe more like 5% for the year.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I mean the 5% now based on how these chunks as you say may flow through or is it reasonable to expect or is it possible I guess is a better way to say it that one of these big things works out or there's 1 new contract in your pipeline goes through then suddenly growth is at the 7% to 10% and guidance is up another 5%? Well nobody believed me when I said the 2%.
You've got 5%.
So now we're saying 5%.
I feel like 5% is a good number.
It's possible to beat the 5% but I'm sticking with the 5% for now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's fair.
And just as a follow-on when you look at kind of the new leases signed and to what extent there's been a shift from rental into lease can you comment on the duration of the new leases and how that stacks up I mean duration of structure just kind of lease terms? Any color you can add versus the average portfolio now? Yes probably the best way to look at that is based on the comment that Art made that more of our leases are being done with new equipment versus redeployment.
I would tell you that you're getting -- we're getting longer terms on those vehicles than when you sign a lease on a redeployed vehicle that may already be 2 or 3 years old.
So the lease terms are moving in the direction of longer terms as a result of that.
I mean our typical leases are 5 to 6 years if you look at it.
So that's what we're adding on term versus our portfolio maybe say 3 years on average right now.
And so for every incremental deal you're adding 5 to 6 versus a 3.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
So right now the whole portfolio is 3 years.
Correct? Right.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide any context in terms of the lease pricing dynamics you see on the Full Service Lease side in the market here 2012 relative to your initial expectations given on the margin it appears that banks have become more favorable as it relates to writing credit to the smaller owners.
I was wondering if that is allowing some of the financial lessors or even competitors be on the margin any more aggressive or favorable as it relates to rates in engaging new leases.
I think first of all pricing is up because it has to be up because the price of new equipment is so much more expensive.
Now if you want to talk about pricing and value and increases above the increase in cost then what's relevant is how we maintain our spreads and how our EVA calculation per vehicle are being priced and always continue to be strong and growing.
So I think there are 2 dynamics.
One is equipment costs a lot more than it used to.
So that has to be passed along.
And then of course having the discipline in pricing which comes from having a good value package to customers so they are willing to pay the appropriate level of premium when they do business with us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then I guess separately or in conjunction with that can you talk about any sort of traction that you might be having as it relates to some of the innovative leases that you've developed whether the shorter-term leases or diversification into specialized equipment natural gas-fired equipment and others? I mean is it a meaningful driver? Are we seeing -- how has that been received in the marketplace? And where is that trending relative to your expectations? Yes I think the receptivity has been very strong.
Natural gas for example we probably have deployed 220-plus units.
So in a totality of 200 000-unit fleet that's a small beginning.
I think what's important is that the market recognizes that thus far we have been the sole provider in our subsegment and we are gaining experience in the maintenance in the specification the spec-ing of the vehicles.
And I think that over time that will be a significant contributing factor because you have to believe that more and more industry and commercial customers are going to find natural gas vehicles attractive.
So we're at the very early stages but as in many industries I think it's really important and valuable to be the leader and at the leading edge of those kinds of changes which we are.
And I think that secondary benefit is that the awareness of that is even causing some customers that might not have been considering a seriously -- outsourcing to us are now talking to us about that and other possibilities.
We think that's very encouraging for the longer term.
So clearly not materially impactful on today's financials but they will be in the future.
Research Division</strong> And any traction in terms of the new products the shorter-term re-leases and some of the others? Yes the shorter-term leases have had a very good reception in the marketplace.
Those are typically units that we are -- we're going to provide for a let's say a 3-year lease instead of a 6-year and then we redeploy those into other applications when they come in.
So we got some good traction.
In terms of -- I think a meaningful impact I think to Greg's point you're still talking about over a 1-year period maybe having about 1 000 of those which does have some impact but certainly on a fleet of 200 000 still not the primary driver.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Sal Vitale on for Jeff Kauffman.
So just a quick question if I could go back to the rental side.
Just -- and I apologize if you mentioned these figures earlier.
But if I look at the decline in utilization year-over-year about 360 basis points holding the fleet constant what would the utilization have done? I'm just trying to get a sense for how much of it was due to the higher fleet size as opposed to just lower demand.
Well demand was up year-over-year.
I don't have the exact stat for you on that.
But I can tell you this you're exactly right.
We were up 350 basis points which really our game plan is to adjust the fleet about that much in order to get us back in line with our target utilization for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then if just asking on -- you mentioned in the press release demand was strong but a little lower than you anticipated.
Was that I guess in the number of vehicles deployed? Or was that more on the pricing side or some combination thereof? Pricing was still up.
Pricing was up 5%.
Rental days were up.
So I'd say probably overall rental demand was a little lower than what we were originally planning when we did the business plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it was probably more on the volume side than on the price side? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that also -- that applies to the out quarters for the rest of the year as well in terms of the guidance you gave? Yes unless we see another bend in the curve one way or another that's kind of what we expect.
And that's why we'll make some modest adjustments to the size of the fleet primarily this quarter.
We started in the first quarter.
Yes we're expecting to see the seasonal movement in rental that you'd normally see picks up in the second quarter third quarter and then into the fourth.
We're actually -- we've begun to see that through April.
So we're expecting it's just going to -- it's going to move like it would normally seasonally just at a lower level than what we had originally expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And by the way what is that normal seasonal uptick from 1Q to 2Q? Typically what we'll see is we'll see a -- in terms of demand we'll see a 15% 15% to 20% improvement from 1 quarter to the other.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question.
You mentioned the -- well the guidance you gave was up $0.02 essentially for the year.
That's in terms of EPS.
And you mentioned rental a few moving parts within the rental being a little lower slightly better vehicle sales gains and better lease activity.
Can you provide a little bit more color on the magnitude of the increases and decreases there? With that -- to that level of specificity no.
I think if you -- to help you a bit if you went to the original waterfall chart that we provided on the business plan call and we have those available because we always share those at investor conferences you can then look at -- it's sort of those bars and see the range on the big green bar.
And rental come down a bit you'll see supply chain come up a bit you'll see Used Vehicle sales come up a bit.
But to put a precise EPS number on each one I think that would be both difficult and then a bit problematic to be reporting on that.
So I think we have to kind of keep it in those broad generalities.
But when you look at the picture of that waterfall that will show you that we probably restricted some spending that was discretionary.
Rental down a bit lease pretty steady and SCS supply chain Used Vehicle sales up.
And I think that will give you kind of the broad picture to get you to that couple of cent improvement.
Our next question is from David Campbell with Thompson Davis.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> You may have answered this during the last conference call but regarding your new presentation of quarterly expenses I was curious why you think that's a better description or a better -- provides better visibility into the company's expenses and operations.
So there's some of the things you used to provide aren't there and of course now we have some new things.
So can you generally say why that's improved to your...
I mean David this is Art.
Part of it we try to provide that information supplementally around depreciation and subcontracted transportation.
Some of it is as we look at our business as a whole we're more than just a leasing or rental business.
We also have a service operation and we sell fuel.
And as we look -- the best way to present that since we are a public company you kind of are pushed to provide those earnings or the revenues and the costs by product line.
So as we looked at that and we thought that was a better way to go to comply with all the external requirements that's why we move to that.
We actually think it provides more information because it does give you a visibility into the margin of each key business as well as our overhead costs.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> Okay.
And as far as depreciation and amortization is concerned you show that of course in the cash flow where would that come out of in the P&amp;L your new P&amp;L presentation? That would be in SG&amp;A expense? Most of that is going to be in the cost of lease and rental.
It's the assets most of our depreciation associated with revenue earning equipment.
So you're going to see the lion's share of that is in cost of lease and rental.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> Okay.
So because looking -- so if I continue to show D&amp;A as a separate line item I would take just -- take most of it for purposes -- your purposes all of that as a cost of lease and rental? Yes.
You would take its 80% of it at least.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned that lease demand is increasingly being met with new equipment and I know you said you were happy with the EVA spread trends.
We also I guess recognize that that means you can sell more used equipment into a strong used market.
Does it do anything else to margins? And I'm thinking about say 2013 through 2015? And then because of the engine technology complexity does it stimulate contract maintenance sales? Robert? I think what it will do to margin is that you -- well more than what it does to margin I think it's what it does to term right? You get a longer term on the new equipment.
So you've got a contract for a longer period of time which guarantees that revenue stream for longer periods.
In terms of contract margins as you saw we did see some improvement in contract margin.
And I think some of that is coming from customers that are looking for maintenance on the more complex fleets.
So 1 quarter doesn't make a trend but certainly that's an area for some growth that we think will come in the next few years.
That's all I'm showing for questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Swienton for closing remarks.
Yes before we sign off I think Art Garcia wanted to clarify 1 comment.
Thanks Greg.
Yes I was going to -- on a question from David Campbell about the percentage of depreciation it's probably closer to 90%.
90% to 95% of that would relate to cost of lease and rental and the remaining piece of it would be in the other parts of the P&amp;L.
Okay thanks.
Well operator I think that's it.
I think we've handled all the calls and we're just after high noon.
So thanks to everyone for participating and have a good safe day.
Bye now.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objection please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Robert Sanchez President and Chief Operating Officer; and Art Garcia the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
This morning we'll recap our second quarter 2012 results review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook for the business.
And after our initial remarks we'll open up the call for questions so let me ride into an overview of our second quarter results.
I'll begin on Page 4 for those of you following on the web in the PowerPoint presentation.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.91 for the second quarter 2012 up from $0.79 in the prior-year period.
The second quarter results included a $0.09 restructuring charge for recent workforce reduction initiatives.
The prior year second quarter included a $0.10 charge from a tax law change and a $0.03 charge from acquisition-related transaction costs.
Excluding these items in each period for both years comparable EPS was $1 in the second quarter 2012 up from $0.92 in quarter 2 2011.
This is an improvement of $0.08 or 9% over the prior year period.
Second quarter comparable EPS was above the high end of our most recent forecast range of $0.90 to $0.95.
The outperformance was due primarily to higher used vehicle pricing in both retail and wholesale sales lower-than-expected maintenance costs resulting from ongoing operational initiatives and a modest decline in the lease fleet age as well as lower discretionary overhead spending.
Total revenue grew 3% from the prior year.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 6%.
Increase in revenue reflects both the benefit of organic growth and the Hill Hire acquisition which was completed in early June last year.
Page 5 includes some additional financial statistics for the second quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined to $50.7 million.
During the second quarter we purchased approximately 234 000 shares at an average price of $46.87 under our 2-million-share anti-dilutive program which expires in December 2013.
As of June 30 there were 51.1 million shares outstanding of which 50.7 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
The second quarter 2012 tax rate was 36.6%.
The prior year's tax rate of 45.5% was negatively impacted by a tax law change in Michigan.
Excluding this item from 2011 the comparable tax rate would have been 37.7% last year.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics for the year-to-date period.
Operating revenue was up by 8%.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $1.59 up by 11% from $1.43 in the prior year.
Adjusted return on capital was 5.6% versus 5.3% in the prior year as growth in earnings outpaced growth in capital.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital is 50 basis points for the trailing 12-month period and is now forecast to be 80 basis points for the full year.
I'd like to turn now to Page 7 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the second quarter in the business segments.
In Fleet Management total revenue grew 3% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes a 5% decrease in fuel services revenue reflecting lower fuel cost pass-throughs and fewer gallons sold.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 7%.
This mainly reflects organic growth of both Full Service Lease and Commercial Rental as well as the Hill Hire acquisition.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and contract maintenance was up by 5%.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 5% versus the prior year due to higher rates on replacement vehicles organic fleet growth and the Hill Hire acquisition.
At quarter end the lease fleet size increased organically by almost 2% or 2 000 units versus the prior year.
On a sequential basis the organic lease fleet was unchanged from the end of the first quarter 2012 which was in line with our original plan expectations due to the timing of sales activity.
The lease fleet age started to decline late in the quarter which was earlier than initially planned due to greater use of new vehicles for lease replacements.
Miles driven per day per vehicle on U.S.
lease power units increased 2% compared to the prior year.
Commercial Rental revenue increased 10% reflecting acquisitions and higher pricing.
The average rental fleet increased 17% and was up by 5% excluding acquisitions.
Global pricing on power units was up 6% which was in line with our original plan for the quarter.
Rental demand in North America was slightly down compared to the prior year and was below our initial expectations coming into the quarter.
As a result of lower-than-expected demand and a larger fleet rental utilization on power units declined to 75% from 78.7% in the prior year.
As discussed in our pre-release we've taken timely action to adjust the size of our rental fleet to current demand conditions and the fleet is already at our new target level.
Based on this action the year-over-year decline in utilization has already narrowed in July and this trend is expected to continue and further improve in the second half of the year.
In the used vehicle area we saw a continued strong pricing and demand environment.
Robert Sanchez will discuss those results separately in a few moments.
Overall improved FMS results were positively impacted by lower incentive compensation the Hill Hire acquisition and organic lease fleet growth.
These benefits were partially offset by lower Commercial Rental results.
Earnings before tax and fleet management were up 7%.
And FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue was 9.2% unchanged from the prior year.
Turning to Page 8.
In the Supply Chain Solutions segment which includes all Dedicated Contract Carriage activity both total and operating revenues were up 6%.
Revenue increased due to higher automotive volumes and new business.
The improvement in auto volumes included but was not limited to a year-over-year benefit due to production cuts in 2011 from the natural disasters in Japan.
We also saw very nice growth of 14% in our Dedicated Contract Carriage services this quarter.
Improved earnings in the segment were driven by higher revenue and were partially offset by unusually high medical benefit costs.
In total supply chain earnings before tax were up 9% from the prior year and supply chains earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 6.3% up 20 basis points compared to the prior period.
Page 9 covers the business segment view of our income statement which I just discussed and is included here for your later reference.
Page 10 highlights our year-to-date results by business segment.
And in the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but will just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $81.8 million up by 10% from $74.2 million in the prior-year period.
And at this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 11.
The year-to-date gross capital expenditures were $1.3 billion that's up $437 billion from the prior year.
This was driven by increased purchases of new lease vehicles to fulfill contractual sales to customers for renewal and growth of their long-term fleets.
This capital spending reflects an increase in the number of leases renewed growth in the fleet size and a higher investment cost per vehicle which is being priced into customer rates.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was down $18 million year-to-date.
Our full year gross capital expenditures are expected to be near the low end of the $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion range we communicated at the beginning of the year due to somewhat lower spending in rental and lease.
While our lease fleet size forecast has come down from our initial plan levels the associated reduction in lease capital has been partially offset by increased use of new rather than used vehicles for renewed leases.
As we commented on during the first quarter we continue to see increased acceptance by customers of the new technology for lease contracts which provides us with longer terms on these deals as well as the benefit of the step-up in rates due to higher equipment costs.
This has also contributed to the lease fleet age coming down earlier than we initially anticipated.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue-earning equipment of $199 million.
That's up $57 million from the prior year.
This increase primarily reflects more units sold compared to the prior year as well as higher pricing.
We also executed a $130 million sale-leaseback transaction on vehicles this quarter due to attractive lease financing rates.
Including these items net CapEx increased by $250 million to just under $1 billion.
Since the sale-leaseback transaction was not in our initial forecast for the year our net capital expenditures should now come in below our initial full year forecast.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activity of $472 million year-to-date unchanged from the prior year.
Higher earnings and depreciation net of gains and other noncash charges were offset by increased pension contributions and changes in working capital.
We generated approximately $830 million of total cash year-to-date.
This was up by approximately $190 million and included the proceeds from the sale-leaseback as well as higher used vehicle sales.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by almost $400 million to just over $1.2 billion.
The company had negative free cash flow of $370 million year-to-date.
Free cash flow was down $198 million from the prior year's negative free cash flow due mainly to higher planned investments in vehicles that will generate revenue and earnings in 2012 and future years.
This was partially offset by the sale-leaseback proceeds.
We've adjusted our full year free cash flow forecast range by $130 million to reflect the impact of the sale-leaseback transaction which was not included in our initial plan.
As a result of this adjustment our revised full year free cash flow forecast is now $270 million to $330 million as compared to our initial forecast of negative $460 million -- or $400 million to $460 million.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of approximately $3.9 billion are up almost $480 million compared to year end 2011.
The increased debt level is largely due to higher lease capital spending.
As expected total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 284%.
That's up from 261% at the end of 2011.
The increase in leverage reflects our seasonal purchase of rental vehicles which occurs during the first half of the year.
Our leverage ratio is expected to decline in the second half of the year towards the lower end of our prior forecast range of 261% to 265% excluding any year-end pension adjustment.
This forecast leverage is at the lower end of our target range of 250% to 300%.
At these levels we have the balance sheet flexibility to support expected organic capital and typical acquisition activity.
Our equity balance at the end of the quarter was just under $1.4 billion.
That's up $66 million versus year end 2011.
The equity increase was driven by higher earnings.
At this point I'll hand the call to our President and CEO Robert Sanchez to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our global used vehicle inventory for sale was 9 200 vehicles up from 5 000 units in the second quarter of 2011.
On a sequential basis from the first quarter of 2012 ending inventories were only up 500 units.
Used vehicle inventories are elevated beyond our typical target range of approximately 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles.
This reflects a planned increase in lease replacement activity.
It also reflects planned refreshments of the rental fleet as well as out-servicing of rental units related to our recent rental fleet downsizing.
Used vehicle inventories are expected to remain in the 9 000 to 10 000 unit range during the balance of the year.
We sold 6 200 vehicles during the quarter up 41% compared to the prior year reflecting continued strong market demand for used vehicles.
Retail pricing for used vehicles increased year-over-year and was somewhat ahead of our expectations.
Proceeds per unit comparisons were negatively impacted by a higher proportion of vehicles sold through the wholesale versus retail channel.
The increased use of wholesaling however was in line with our expectations as outlined in our recent earnings forecast update.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 proceeds from all vehicles sold including wholesale units were down 1% for tractors and up 6% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was down 12% and truck pricing was up 5% again including the increased wholesale activity.
At the end of the quarter 12 300 vehicles were classified as no longer earning revenue.
This is up 5 200 units from the prior year reflecting a higher used vehicle inventory but was only up 100 units sequentially from the first quarter of 2012.
The number of lease contracts that were extended beyond the original lease term increased versus last year by around 200 units.
This reflects and is consistent with the higher volume of renewal activity this year due to a heavier lease replacement cycle.
Early termination of leased vehicles declined by about 460 units or 28%.
Early terminations were about half of what they were 2 years ago and were at the lowest level in the past decade.
Our rental fleet was up 17% including acquisitions or 5% organically in the quarter.
With the softer-than-anticipated rental demand conditions we've seen in our recent de-fleeting actions we're now expecting the full year rental fleet to be down approximately 3% to 5% at year end below our initial forecast for the year.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to cover our outlook and forecast.
Thank you Robert.
Turning to Page 17 let me cover our outlook and forecast.
In order to address lower-than-expected rental demand we quickly took appropriate actions to reduce costs by aligning resources with the current business outlook.
As a result of our cost-reduction initiatives we expect to see an $0.18 EPS benefit in the second half of 2012.
We've also taken timely actions to reduce the size of our rental fleet.
We've already finished adjusting our rental fleet size to the current demand environment.
We still need to dispose of some additional used vehicles to get our inventories closer in line with our target levels.
However the increased wholesaling we're currently doing above normal levels is expected to be concluded later this year.
We expect that used vehicle pricing will generally be stable going forward and that demand conditions will be solid partially due to continued demand for pre-2010 engines.
In Full Service Lease we expect revenue growth in the low to mid-single-digit range during the second half of the year.
Additionally we've recently started to see the lease fleet age come down which may provide some earlier-than-anticipated upside to margins if this trend continues in the second half of the year.
In supply chain we expect to see continued increases in new sales and activity levels including improvements in our Dedicated Contract Carriage results.
We anticipate overall supply chain results will be somewhat above our original expectations for the year.
Given these factors and our final results for the second quarter we're raising our full year comparable EPS forecast from a previous range of $3.65 to $3.85 to a new range of $3.75 to $3.90.
And this represents an improvement of 7% to 12% from $3.49 comparable on the prior year.
We're also providing a third quarter comparable EPS forecast of $1.15 to $1.22 versus prior year EPS of $1.09 an improvement of 6% to 12%.
And that does conclude our prepared remarks this morning.
So we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg a month ago you guys lowered guidance on essentially lower Commercial Rental demand and having to wholesale more used trucks.
And now a month later you're raising your 2012 outlook essentially by the upside we saw in the quarter.
So does that mean the back half of the year assumes continued weakness in Commercial Rental revenue and lower wholesale used truck prices? And if Commercial Rental were to pick up in the second half of the year maybe due to housing improving would you cut back on the number of used vehicles you sell in the second half of 2012? All right.
I think first of all the expectation for demand is certainly considerably less than our original business plan and our forecast for the second half of the year reflects the demand levels that we think we've kind of matched up our supply with through the second half of the year.
If there should be some unexpected surprise or upside and demand suddenly heated up which is certainly not in our reasonable expectations at this time then we'd probably again adjust how much we move out in the fleet how much you may move to other service how much you may move to sell but that we'll monitor in the days ahead.
I think at this point we feel that we've about got it right.
You never know what's in the months ahead.
After the month of May things look pretty weak.
June stabilized.
July looks better.
But you can never tell in this environment this very weak uncertain economic environment kind of how things are going to go month-to-month.
So I think we'll monitor it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So June was better than May and July was a little bit better than June.
So the decline in volumes that you saw in Commercial Rental in May can you maybe -- could you help characterize that? How much is the tight driver situation maybe impacting some of your smaller customers where they can't find drivers and therefore have to outsource that business to say larger fleets? Frankly I don't think it has anything to do with drivers.
I think it has to do with how much freight and volume there is to move.
And as rental is the prime -- one of the prime users of -- for supplemental capacity for our customers who are lease customers as well as just rental customers I think that you had many things going on simultaneously but certainly a slowdown in May for volume.
And I really think that's the case.
It's not due to drivers.
Our next question is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the lease fleet declining in average age earlier than anticipated.
How much earlier than anticipated? I guess when did you expect that to decline? I think our original plans that -- were that maybe by the end of this year going into the start of next year we would begin to see some reduction in average age of the fleet.
So the fact that it's showing up now I think is a positive sign that portends well for the future.
Now the question is will that keep up and will that continue to kind of flow through.
But certainly that was a positive and an upside addition in the second quarter.
Maybe Dennis if you want to say anything from FMS in addition to that about fleet age at the moment.
No.
That's right Greg.
We were expecting it to decline towards the end of the year.
Due to the replacement activity that we're seeing we actually saw it start to come down sooner and that alone with the initiatives that we're driving bodes well for maintenance cost.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Even though extensions are still rising replacements are well exceeding extensions to bring the average age down? Yes.
The replacement activity is very high David.
So as a result we are seeing as we said the age come down sooner than expected.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on the dedicated side of things it sounded like you made some improvements there.
I know there was talk about fixing some legacy Scully account-specific issues.
Have either cost pressures gotten better? Have we kind of fixed all the Scully issues? Yes that's right.
That's good memory.
We had some last year in the third and fourth quarter we had some margin decline in DCC largely because of the accounts you referenced.
Our team has done a good job working on those accounts one at a time and brought the margins of those accounts back in line and that's part of what you see in these results.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And did you retain all of those accounts in bringing them back in line? Or did you have to exit some of them? Virtually all the accounts yes.
Our next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg can you just talk about as you take a look at the outlook for the remainder of the year can you give us a little bit more guidance around CapEx? I apologize if I missed that during the call.
But just as you see your business through the balance of this year and if you were to see another step-down in both leasing and the rental side how much further could you pare CapEx back? Well rental spending is fundamentally done and it's a little lower than our original forecast.
Lease is based on as you know the contracts that we signed.
But even there we've modified that a bit and we're at the lower end of our range.
And Art if you want to again provide your range numbers for CapEx being a little lower this year.
Right yes.
John remember we talked about a range of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion for the year.
We see the year ending up at the lower end of that range.
And I think to Greg's point if there was a significant slowdown it would manifest itself in less new sales and we just would not spend the capital if that occurred.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
So that'll fluctuate with activity in that business and rental's pretty much done.
Greg just one other thought.
I mean a couple weeks ago I mean your pre-announcement was kind of a dire -- I mean it kind of came across as world's coming to an end.
Business is falling apart.
And here we sit a couple weeks later and you're taking back up guidance.
I mean outside of what you've done internally that $0.18 you've kind of -- you've created of earnings and I applaud you for addressing that.
But then why not maybe just leave it alone and buy yourself a little bit of cushion? I mean it still seems to me like there's a fair amount of uncertainty out there.
Just why raise guidance here? Why not just buy yourself that margin of error? We believe that our best interests are always served to give you and everyone else who invests in and follows the company the best information with the right guidance that we possibly can at any point.
And I'd hate to think that you felt that the world was ending when we did the pre-announcement but the fact in May was we saw a falloff in May that we've just never seen before.
And as it came in rental which is often a leading indicator it certainly caused us not undue concern but reasonable concern about what was going on in the environment.
I think as you've watched other companies report we may have led in our description of softness but we're hardly the only one now and there are many others in transportation and other industries however reporting weak sales weak performance weak earnings year-over-year.
We think that with the aggressive timely action that we've taken and from our experience we know it's better to act quickly than hope for something to improve.
We think that the actions we've taken are timely and appropriate.
We've gotten the fleet levels where we want them.
We've taken out discretionary cost in some other aggressive areas.
And we believe that based on what we see and what we've calculated we've given you an honest range.
And we're not trying to sandbag or hedge our bets.
We're giving you the best guidance that we possibly can which is always our objective.
Our next question is from the Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg I just want to make I understand the trend that you're seeing within the lease fleet and then what your expectation is for the rest of the year.
It sounds like the number of units are a little bit lower but it's more new equipment versus used equipment that you're signing leases for.
And that having a -- it's having a positive impact on the fleet aging and potential positive impact on the margins.
Is that the right characterization of what you're seeing? And then what do you think is driving that? And how do you expect that to play out for the second half? Well I think fundamentally your comments are right.
And the first thing I would emphasize is that the good news through all of this time in the last few months and going forward the contractual business in both segments has held up and the contractual business with the full service lease and contract maintenance and FMS has held up.
And we think that that again supports the issues we've talked about for the longer term about the outsourcing trends and the value that we provide in the marketplace.
For the leasing units we're expecting to have 500 to 1 000 additional units at the end of this year compared to last year.
That's a little bit lower than our original forecast but we redid that and reassessed that in the pre-release just to be sure that in this environment that would hold up.
When you break that between power units and total units -- the number I gave you was for total units that includes trailers.
We're going to do a little bit of rationalization on trailers.
But for power units those units continued to sell even better and are a bit stronger or as strong at this point as we might have hoped.
So I think that portends and bodes well for the future.
It helps the maintenance costs and it helps the future revenue and earnings stream from those lease units.
And the contract maintenance units which may not be Full Service Lease but that we are serving on a maintenance basis those quantities of units are also going up.
Dennis if you want to add any other flavor or color to that.
No just building on what you said about the contract maintenance there's a lot of interest out in the marketplace for a provider who can be a one-stop shop.
Somebody who's got 800 shops across the country and the ability to lower maintenance cost along with increased truck uptime Greg is being received very well.
So we expect to see that demand continue.
Research Division</strong> So the new leases that are being signed with people taking new equipment is that private fleet conversion versus existing customers? And is that really what's driving the trend pushing the fleet age down and seeing more new equipment than what you maybe initially anticipated? Yes.
I think what we're really seeing Todd is that the fuel-efficient specifications that we're putting out there is getting a lot of interest.
So as a result we're seeing a lot of new equipment that's being put into our customers' fleets and that's really what's driving the age down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up on the rental fleet.
The comments in the prepared remarks it sounds like you have the rental fleet where you want it to be.
Is that based off of where the rental fleet ended at the end of the second quarter? Are there still more units that are going to come out into the third quarter? And I think I've got where it should end for the full year but I was just trying to get an idea of is the ending fleet count in the rental side of the second quarter is that really what we should think about for the third quarter? And can that give you kind of that mid-70s utilization based on what you're seeing right now? Robert? Yes.
Todd this is Robert.
Yes we're at the right level based on where we ended the second quarter.
So I think that was the comment that was made in the prepared remarks.
From here on in we expect that there'll be some natural de-fleeting as demand drops off and that's primarily in the fourth quarter but it's just what we would normally do.
There's no incremental adjustment to the fleet that would be needed if demand continues the way it's been the last couple of months.
So we're in a period that's a little less predictable.
But right now we feel really good about the progress that we made on getting the fleet right I think.
I've been through this cycle a few years in my -- a few times in my career and this is probably the quickest we've been able to adjust.
We saw the problem in February and got the fleet right by the end of June.
So we feel good about that now.
There's no more new equipment coming in.
So if we need to just more in the second half of the year we're much better positioned to do that.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question when you preannounced I suspect that you had envisioned some headcount reduction so I'm trying to make sense of the $0.09 charge.
I understand it from an accounting standpoint.
But I mean you sort of knew that some headcount reductions that were coming so I'm trying to reconcile that against the core EPS number.
And then I have a follow-up question.
I didn't quite hear the last piece of your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to make sense of the $0.09 charge recognizing that you probably knew that you were going to have some headcount reductions when you preannounced.
It would have been maybe helpful to get some color on that in the pre-announcement.
I'm just...
Well when -- Anthony this is Art.
When we had the pre-announcement we did identify that we were taking a restructuring charge.
We actually estimated it to be around $0.10 and it came in a little bit less at $0.09.
But the head -- the actions were already contemplated in that pre-announcement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then back to the earlier comments off of John Barnes' question just a little more color on what's happening in the core lease fleet.
I mean I guess we got a little bit of a tug-of-war going on here very low small-business confidence uncertainty about the economy but an aged national fleet benefits of outsourcing.
So bring us a little bit further into the weeds if you will with what's happening with your customer base as they look at leasing activity.
Go ahead.
Yes.
Anthony I think what's happening is you're right in it's a tug-of-war.
The demand is certainly less predictable than we'd like but the customers are seeing the benefits of the improved fuel efficiencies as Dennis mentioned.
So that is driving the replacement.
The other thing is that the units have also gotten to the end of their life.
I mean we've -- a lot of these units have already been extended so we're at a point where they need to be replaced.
So the good news I think for Ryder is as we're getting the heavy replacement with newer equipment the fleet age is coming in younger than what we had originally forecast.
And we've mentioned a few times in the past calls that in order to get lease returns back to where they were back in the '07 '08 time period the fleet needed to get a little bit larger.
We're probably about 2 000 power units off of what we were then.
And it needed to get newer.
And actually the newer is more impactful even than the additional 2 000 units.
So there's a margin benefit of the fleet getting newer which will provide a larger percentage of the return back to the '07 and '08 numbers then it will just grow.
So the fact that it's getting newer is a very good thing.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to -- I guess you guys aren't alone in rationalizing your rental fleet this quarter.
Curious what rental pricing is like here into the third quarter what your short-term view is while why there might be "excess capacity" in the market.
And similarly can you talk about very short-term lease demand into the fleet disposals that are taking place throughout the industry? Okay.
Well in the second quarter rental pricing was up 6%.
And now that we're in the third week of July Dennis if you have any stats or anything you can share for current inflow.
It's ball plan [ph] Greg but yet still up.
Original plan or re-forecast? Original plan.
Okay.
So we still see a decent pricing environment with rental just below our expectations originally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then as we've exhausted rental CapEx here year-to-date and you start to think about 2013 I know it's early.
I know a lot can change between now and then.
But can directionally you give us an idea of where you're thinking 2013 rental CapEx will be? Yes.
Although not official certainly we expect -- and I think rightfully you can expect that because the rental fleet is now rightsized and it is at an average age that we're really pleased with over the last couple of years the order of magnitude of rental CapEx could decline substantially.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one really quick point of clarification.
The sale-leaseback transaction in the quarter was there any EPS impact from that? Or was that all cash flow? That's pretty much a cash flow item Peter.
And it has some benefit because the rates were pretty attractive; I don't think it's significant to the results overall.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
So just want to follow up on the age of the fleet questions.
Can you give a little bit of color on where the age of the fleet is today and how much it's aged over the past couple of years? And is there any way to think about how much that's pressured maintenance expense over the past few years? I mean we're just trying to think about how we should think about the potential margin opportunities now that the fleet is getting younger.
And then just with that though Greg you didn't seem convinced that the fleet would continue coming down in age.
Why won't it come down further? All right.
I'll let Robert touch on that from an asset management point of view on those 2 questions.
And I think you're referring to the lease fleet and not rental right? Yes.
Sorry.
Yes the leasing fleet.
Yes.
The -- Scott the fleet -- the lease fleet is down -- the age is down a couple months from where we started the year and from where we expect it to be.
If you compare that to what the fleet age was in 2007 2008 timeframe it's about 1 year older so we still have some ways to run before we get to where we were then.
And in terms of the magnitude it is a pretty significant number that it's affected our maintenance cost.
And maybe one way to look at it is if you just step back and look at FMS margins from the ones that we're at now we're about 9% for the year versus back then we're about 12%.
So that 3 percentage points is really a combination -- is really coming from lease and it's a combination of the higher maintenance cost and the fleet being a little bit smaller from a power standpoint.
So the 3% of revenue if you assume more than 50% of that is going to come from the fleet getting younger that'll give you an idea.
It's a pretty significant number.
And then for certainty or caution regarding how that may move in the future would you -- might comment.
Yes.
Let me just elaborate that in June we saw some promising results in maintenance cost which is one of the things that we mentioned and that was a combination we think of the fleet beginning to get younger and then some of the key initiatives that Dennis and his team are working on.
We have not built that continued improvement into the -- our balance the year forecast because one month doesn't make a trend.
So I think if you -- if that were to continue for the balance of year we would have some upside on the numbers that we've -- the guidance that we've given.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And just the second question is when we look at Commercial Rental I think you mentioned that the fleet was up 17% and pricing is up 6% but revenue's only up 10%.
Can -- so can you talk about maybe some of the mix changes you're seeing within rental? And if you have any color on what U.S.
rental revenue was down maybe monthly trends or what you're seeing so far in July in terms of U.S.
rental revenue.
Yes.
I think the reconciliation of those numbers is really demand right? If the fleet is up pricing is up but overall demand for the vehicles was down.
So that's what caused the revenue to be down.
If I were to look at pricing year-over-year is about -- was up about 5% in the U.S.
and we expect that to kind of remain steady for the balance of the year.
I think as Dennis mentioned earlier the pricing environment even though demand is down the pricing environment still continues to be relatively stable.
Do you have a sense on what U.S.
rental revenue was up or down in the second quarter and then what you're seeing for overall rental revenue up or down in -- so far in July? Rental revenue in the second quarter was up slightly and we see that trend continue through July.
But then as we catch the tail of last year's really strong third and fourth quarter you'll see that flip a little bit.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just first a question on used vehicle sales.
You had quoted what the proceeds per tractor and proceeds per truck had done in the quarter.
Does that include the impact from wholesale? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us what those numbers did on a retail level? We have a few people trying to look for some pages to give you that answer if they can find it if it's in the room.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> While they're doing that just a clarification too on Commercial Rental.
I think Greg you had commented or somebody had commented that sequentially demand had improved in June and then had improved again in July.
Is that correct? We said June was considerably lower than our original expectation in June but had stabilized and was a bit better than May because May was really bad.
And July is holding up all right compared to our most recent re-forecast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is -- I guess the question I'm asking then is July -- what has it done relative to June? It's just a little -- a slight seasonal move.
So I would say it's stable with June.
I think a good way to look at rental is it's not continuing to decline.
It's been -- it's relatively stable which is sort of what we had forecasted going out and it'll move seasonally now for the balance of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was really my question was going to get to what -- is it doing things normal from a seasonal perspective.
So...
Yes.
Again with -- it's hard to tell.
This environment's been a little bumpy.
But we did adjust -- just so you understand the seasonal -- the seasonality we built into the balance of the year we did adjust downward to reflect maybe some more -- a little bit more conservative years that -- over the last 7 years.
So I think we've built some of that already in.
Dennis did you have an answer to the original question? Yes Art to your original question about the proceeds in the retail market.
For trucks it's up 17% year-over-year and for tractors it's up just shy of 11%.
So it's a robust retail market right now for used vehicles.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No that's what I thought.
I just wanted to confirm that.
Our next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one point of clarification.
On the rental fleet reduction when you said you're looking at a rental fleet down about 3% to 5% from where you were projected for the end of the year is that -- just there's a lot of numbers that are not there.
I'm trying to just conceptualize like how many actual trucks that is.
Is that somewhere around 2 000? Yes.
We'll be down -- from the beginning of the year we'll be down about 3 000 units.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
3 000 total.
Right.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then just another point on that line.
As you flood the wholesale market with these trucks I mean as you're putting more into the wholesale market than you normally would where are these trucks going? I mean is there a risk that suddenly excess wholesale sales will then detract from your future ability to sell in the retail market? First just to have all the listeners get the right impression the units that we're putting into wholesale would not be a flood.
It would be a more moderate kind of inclusion into the marketplace.
So it wouldn't be substantial and it wouldn't overwhelm it.
Many go offshore.
So we're always paying attention to where they go so they don't end up being connected to the retail market.
I don't know if we have or actually divulge the degree or the percent of where they all go or what the countries are but we do pay attention to the end markets because you wouldn't want to put them in a market where you're competing with yourself.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That makes sense.
I mean on that line is there geographical pockets of where you did most of your cutting or where you have pockets of excess trucks for sale? No I think the only thing -- the only additional color maybe I'd add to that John is that we do control that centrally.
So we do -- we have 55 or so used vehicle locations that we sell out of.
But the decisions on wholesaling are done centrally based on where we see opportunities.
And that's as Greg mentioned some of that is done -- you're selling to other resellers in some cases.
For the most -- a lot of it is also where we sell to folks that are going to be taking them offshore.
And again some folks are going to be selling to larger fleets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that's helpful.
But that reseller percentage is not something that you have available? No no.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to that last question first.
I think you said the fleet was going to be down 3 000 units from the beginning-of-year number.
Where would that be targeting the fleet? I want to make sure we're using the same beginning-of-year number.
Okay.
We're just rechecking the page.
We're getting -- you're asking about the start of year 2012 and end of year 2012 with the 3 000 decline what were their actual numbers.
Okay.
We're going to -- we'll end the fleet at about 38 000 units.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying you still have 41 000? No we were at the start of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Okay.
And then second question we've had a highway bill passed with pension reform provisions on smoothing of interest rates.
We didn't talk much about ForEx and you do have some operations outside the U.S.
Can you discuss when these new pension allowances might be able to affect your assumptions if at all and what the ForEx impact that you're looking at is? Sure.
Art? Okay.
Yes.
Jeff around pension we're going through the calculations now.
It -- we expect that it should impact or would impact our 2013 required pension contributions.
So the balance of the year we still expect to make the contributions we had in our beginning-of-year plan for 2012.
We would probably give more guidance on that as we move along but it should be an impact to our 2013 pension contributions.
Being lower.
Being lower.
A positive impact.
Yes yes.
It should be a reduction in the contribution since they're really allowing companies to use a higher discount rate in the calculations for funding purposes.
Then as far as your comment around foreign exchange that really did not have a big impact to us for the quarter nor do we expect it to have a significant impact for the balance of year.
Our next question is from Brad Delco with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Greg maybe I got a little confused on some of the answers at first and I hate to beat a dead horse.
But on the revised guidance would you say that your outlook for the back half of the year today is materially better or unchanged relative to where things were at June 22 when you released your revised guidance? Just from a macro high level.
Yes.
For the last 6 months it's really unchanged.
And then we did actually better than we expected for the remainder and the close of June.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Yes that's kind of what I was thinking.
And then maybe if we could get into some of the details on the used truck sales is there -- can you provide a breakout of what percent of the I think 6 200 trucks were sold in the retail market versus wholesale? And I guess what I'm really focused on is I know you really saw a 24% increase in your used truck sales in the second quarter relative to the first but the gains were relatively flat.
So I'm trying to understand how we should be thinking about that going into the back half of the year.
Yes.
We did -- just to expand that a little bit we did about 70% of the sales were in retail and 30% in wholesale.
And that's what we -- we forecasted that to continue to the third quarter.
Our normal -- a more normalized level would be an 80-20 85-15 level.
So that kind of gives you an idea of how much wholesaling we did.
Our final question today is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a follow-up on the sale-leaseback that you talked about due to attractive lease rates.
Is that going to have any impact on losing out to straight finance leases for private fleets considering to outsource? I didn't understand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess if lease rates are really low and somebody's looking to outsource and they look at Ryder Full Service Lease solution where you include the maintenance versus strict finance lease are some people just going with the strict finance lease option as opposed to going to the maintenance-included option? Yes.
No Dave I don't see that -- these are really 2 separate transactions where the sale-leaseback is more akin to a financing decision we'd make and how we could best monetize tax benefits available to us and that's why we did it.
I don't think it has really any impact on the value prop of our Full Service Lease offering.
Before you leave that Robert did you want to add something? Yes.
No actually I wanted to -- I just wanted to correct one thing on a previous question.
The question that was asked about the rental fleet I want to make sure I -- everybody's clear on the number.
The target ending fleet for rental is just around 38 000 units as I mentioned.
At the end of last year we were at 39 600.
So you're about 1 500 -- year-over-year we're going to be about 1 500 units lower.
The 3 000 is from where we ended the second quarter.
So we're going to be down 3 000 units from the 41 000 that we ended the second quarter in.
Okay.
Thank you.
David another question? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just on the SG&amp;A line that's one of the few expense line items that dropped on an absolute basis year-over-year.
Is that where a lot of the restructuring costs were? And were there any cuts in your sales force? No the reduction in the SG&amp;A line is driven in large part by reduced management incentive compensation expense this year relative to last year.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Swienton for any closing comments.
All right.
Well we do have a couple of minutes left but I think all questions have been handled and answered so we're going to sign off.
So thank you for being on and have a good safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Robert Sanchez President and Chief Operating Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Thank you Bob and good morning everyone.
This morning we'll recap our third quarter 2012 results review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook for the business.
In addition we'll introduce an enhancement to our financial reporting that we plan to implement in 2013.
And after our initial remarks we'll open up the call for questions.
So let me get right into the overview of our third quarter results.
On the PowerPoint slides turning to Page 4 net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.26 for the third quarter 2012 up from $1.10 in the prior year period.
Third quarter results included a $0.02 charge from a tax law change in the U.K.
The prior year's third quarter included a $0.01 tax benefit from acquisition-related transaction costs.
Excluding these items in each period comparable EPS was $1.28 in the third quarter 2012 up from $1.09 in the prior year.
So this is an improvement of $0.19 or 17% over the prior year period.
Our results also represent an outperformance of $0.06 to $0.13 versus our third quarter forecast of $1.15 to $1.22.
Our outperformance this quarter reflects contractual revenue growth and strong used vehicle sales.
Results were also supported by the timely actions we took a few months ago to adjust both our cost structure and the rental fleet size given current market conditions.
Although total revenue was unchanged from the prior year operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 2%.
And the increase in operating revenue reflects organic growth in Full Service Lease.
Page 5 includes some additional financial statistics for the third quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter declined slightly to 50.6 million.
During the third quarter we purchased approximately 87 000 shares at an average price of $39.86 under our 2 million share anti-dilutive program which expires in December 2013.
As of September 30 there were 51.1 million shares outstanding of which 50.6 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
The third quarter 2012 tax rate was 35.6%.
And this tax rate reflects the negative impact from a tax law change in the U.K.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate would be 34.7%.
The prior year's tax rate of 35% reflects the benefit from acquisition-related transaction costs.
And excluding this item in 2011 the comparable tax rate would have been 35.7% last year.
Earnings per share excluding the nonoperating portion of pension expense was $1.37 up by $0.22 or 19% over third quarter 2011.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics for the year-to-date period.
Operating revenue was up 6%.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $2.87 up by 14% from $2.52 in the prior year.
Adjusted return on capital was 5.6% versus 5.5% in the prior year.
And the spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital is 70 basis points for the trailing 12-month period and continues to be forecast at 80 basis points for the full year.
Earnings per share excluding nonoperating pension costs were $3.15 versus $2.68 last year up by $0.47 or 18%.
I'll now turn to Page 7 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the third quarter in the business segments.
In Fleet Management total revenue grew 1% versus the prior year.
Total FMS revenue includes a 3% decrease in fuel services revenue reflecting fewer gallons sold partially offset by higher fuel prices.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 3% and this increase reflects organic growth in Full Service Lease.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and contract maintenance was up by 4%.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 5% versus the prior year due to higher rates on replacement vehicles and organic fleet growth.
At quarter-end the lease fleet size increased organically by approximately 2 500 vehicles or 2% versus the prior year.
On a sequential basis the organic lease fleet increased by over 500 units from the end of the second quarter this year and was up by 1 100 units including the Euroway acquisition.
In addition the contract maintenance fleet grew organically on a sequential basis by 700 units this quarter and was up by 1 200 units including Euroway.
As we discussed on our last call the lease fleet age began to improve late in the second quarter which was earlier than we had initially planned.
The lease fleet age continued to modestly improve in the third quarter due to the use of new vehicles on higher renewals of expiring leases.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units increased 2% compared to the prior year.
Commercial Rental revenue was down 1% reflecting lower demand.
Rental demand was down 3% compared to the prior year which was slightly below our expectations.
The average rental fleet decreased 1% versus the prior year.
As a result of lower demand rental utilization on power units declined 190 basis points to 77.4% from 79.3% in the prior year.
Year-over-year rental utilization comparisons improved significantly over the first half of the year.
The first half of the year we were down by around 360 basis points.
And these better results were due to our timely actions to adjust the size of the rental fleet and more closely align it with current demand conditions.
Global pricing on power units was up 3% which was in line with our expectation.
In the used vehicle area we saw a continued strong pricing and demand environment.
And Robert Sanchez will discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS results were positively impacted by lower compensation-related expenses and organic growth in the lease fleet.
These benefits were partially offset by lower Commercial Rental results.
Earnings before tax in Fleet Management were up 21%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 11.1% up 160 basis points from the prior year.
Turning to Page 8 in the Supply Chain Solutions segment.
Total revenue was unchanged versus the prior year as higher operating revenue was offset by lower subcontracted transportation.
SCS operating revenue was up 2% due to higher fuel cost pass-throughs and both increased volumes and new business in the automotive sector.
Included in higher operating revenue was an 8% increase in revenue from our dedicated services.
Improved earnings in the segment were driven by lower compensation-related expenses and higher revenue in our automotive vertical segment.
The improvements were partially offset by higher medical benefit costs and lower performance in the consumer packaged goods and high tech sectors.
Supply Chain's earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 6.6% unchanged from the prior year.
In total SCS earnings before tax were up 2% from the prior year.
But please note that in the third quarter of 2011 SCS earnings benefited by $2 million from favorable insurance developments foreign exchange gains and a facility sale.
If you exclude these items from the third quarter of last year SCS earnings would be up by 10%.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of our income statement which I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 highlights our year-to-date results by business segment.
And in the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but will just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $147.3 million up by 13% from $130.5 million in the prior year period.
So at this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 11.
Year-to-date gross capital expenditures were $1.7 billion up $468 million from the prior year.
This growth reflects an increase of $530 million for purchases of new lease vehicles to fulfill sales to customers for renewal and growth of their long-term contracted fleets.
This capital spending reflects an increase in the number of leases renewed growth in the fleet size and a higher investment cost per vehicle which is being priced into customer rates.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was down $53 million.
Our full year gross capital expenditures are expected to be near the low-end of the $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion range we communicated at the beginning of the year reflecting somewhat lower spending in Rental.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $310 million up by $86 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects more units sold versus last year as well as higher pricing.
We also executed a $130 million sale-leaseback transaction on vehicles during the second quarter due to attractive lease financing rates.
Including these items net capital expenditures increased by just over $250 million to almost $1.3 billion.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of $768 million year-to-date that's $15 million below the prior year as higher cash-based earnings were partially offset by increased pension contributions.
We generated almost $1.3 billion of total cash year-to-date.
This was up by just over $200 million and included the proceeds from the sale-leaseback as well as higher used vehicle sales.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by $530 million to approximately $1.7 billion.
The company had negative free cash flow of $436 million year-to-date.
Free cash flow was down around $300 million from the prior year's negative free cash flow due mainly to higher planned investments in vehicles that will generate revenue and earnings in 2012 and future years.
This was partially offset by the sale-leaseback proceeds.
As a reminder last quarter we adjusted our full year free cash flow forecast to a range of negative $270 million to $330 million in order to reflect the sale-leaseback transaction which was not included in our initial plan.
We continue to anticipate our full year free cash flow will be around this forecast level.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of just over $4 billion are up by approximately $600 million compared to year-end 2011.
The increased debt level is largely due to higher lease capital spending.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 274% that's up from 261% at the end of the year.
As expected our leverage ratio declined from 284% in the second quarter which was elevated due to our seasonal purchase of rental vehicles.
We expect leverage to continue to decline for the balance of the year towards the lower end of our forecast range of 261% to 265% excluding any year-end pension adjustment.
This forecast leverage is at the lower end of our target range of 250% to 300%.
Our equity balance at the end of the quarter was $1.5 billion.
That's up by $160 million versus year-end 2011.
The equity increase was driven by higher earnings.
At this point I'll hand the call to our President and COO Robert Sanchez to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our used vehicle inventory for sale was 9 100 vehicles up from 5 100 units in the third quarter of 2011 but in line with our expectations coming into the quarter.
On a sequential basis from the second quarter 2012 ending inventories declined by 100 units.
Used vehicle inventories are elevated beyond our typical target range of approximately 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles.
This reflects a planned increase in lease replacement activity.
It also reflects the planned refreshment of our rental fleet as well as out-servicing of rental units related to our recent rental fleet downsizing.
Used vehicle inventories are expected to remain in the 9 000 to 10 000 range during the balance of year.
We sold 6 200 vehicles during the quarter up 35% compared to prior year reflecting continued strong market demand for used vehicles.
Pricing for used vehicles remained strong and was slightly ahead of our expectations.
Proceeds per unit comparisons were negatively impacted by increased use of wholesaling to manage inventory levels as we discussed coming into the quarter.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 proceeds from all vehicles sold including wholesaled units were down 2% for tractors and 4% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 4% and truck pricing was down 7% again including the increased wholesaling activity.
Retail pricing was up by around 6% on a year-to-year basis.
Given our current inventory levels as well as anticipated strength and lease replacement activity we expect to continue somewhat higher use of wholesale channels next year.
The number of lease vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term increased versus last year by about 440 units.
This reflects and is consistent with the higher volume of renewal activity this year due to a heavier lease replacement cycle.
Early terminations of lease vehicles declined by about 500 units or 21%.
Early lease termination remain at the lowest level in the past decade.
Our average commercial rental fleet was down by 1% versus the prior year and was down by 3% or 1 400 units since the second quarter of this year.
With the seasonal de-fleeting during the fourth quarter we expect the ending rental fleet to come down by another 3% or 1 200 units to end the year at approximately 38 000 units.
This is about 4% below the prior year-end and also below our initial forecast for the year.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Greg to cover our outlook and forecast.
Thank you Robert.
On Page 17 a few comments about the outlook and forecast.
Results in Fleet Management benefited from continued growth in Full Service Lease as well as solid used vehicle performance.
We expect continued growth in lease based on recent sales and renewal activity as well as increased acceptance of new engine technology by our customers.
Additionally the lease fleet age has continued to come down which is expected to benefit FMS margins again in the fourth quarter.
Rental demand was slightly lower-than-expected during the third quarter and we expect these trends to continue in the near term.
We also expect some future softening in the used vehicle pricing.
We took timely actions to reduce the size of our rental fleet which enabled us to significantly narrow the gap between year-over-year rental utilization comparisons.
We still need to dispose of some additional used vehicles to get our inventories closer in line with our target levels and we plan to continue to have somewhat elevated levels of wholesaling next year in order to do so.
In Supply Chain volumes have been mixed by industry segment and this is likely to continue in the near term given the current economic environment.
We've had strong new sales activity in logistics including dedicated services and this positions SCS well for solid growth next year.
Given these factors we're providing a fourth quarter comparable EPS forecast of $1.06 to $1.11 versus prior year EPS of $0.97.
And this represents an improvement of 9% to 14%.
With this fourth quarter outlook we're raising our full year comparable EPS forecast from a previous range of $3.75 to $3.90 to a new range of $3.93 to $3.98.
And this represents an improvement of 13% to 14% from $3.49 in 2011.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call we plan to enhance the reporting of our comparable EPS metric starting in 2013.
So I'll turn the call back over to Art Garcia so he can provide you with a brief overview of this future change.
Thanks Greg.
Page 19 provides a brief description of the change that we plan to make regarding our comparable EPS metric.
Beginning in 2013 comparable EPS will exclude nonoperating pension costs.
Nonoperating pension costs represent the interest expected return and gain/loss amortization components of GAAP pension expense.
We're implementing this change because we believe it will provide better visibility to the company's operating performance and reduce the volatility associated with these noncash items.
As you may recall our pension plans were frozen to all new and most existing participants several years ago.
Despite this action we and many other companies continue to experience significant earnings volatility due to pension accounting and changes in the investment and discount rate environments.
Companies have been addressing this issue in several ways.
Some companies have moved to annual mark-to-market accounting.
This approach however can result in large noncash charges to earnings at year-end and as such creates a lot of headline noise which we think is not optimal for Ryder.
Other companies have excluded the nonoperating portion of pension costs from reported earnings and this is the approach we plan to take as well.
You may recall that starting this year we improved visibility into the business segment's operating results by moving nonoperating pension costs below the segment line.
We have also provided comparable EPS excluding nonoperating pension costs on a memo basis for informational purposes.
Starting with our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call we'll provide EPS forecasts excluding nonoperating pension costs and then we'll begin reporting actual results on this basis in the first quarter of 2013.
As we've done in the past for any reporting changes we'll provide historical information under the new format for comparative purposes.
Turning to Page 20.
We've provided a 5-year history of full year comparable EPS excluding nonoperating pension expense for your reference.
An annual history back to 2005 is currently posted to our website and a quarterly history will be posted to our website in January.
The results shown here illustrate the significant volatility that noncash pension expense has had in recent years.
For instance the swing in EPS from 2008 to 2009 totaled $0.75 in that 1 year alone from this item which is quite significant on our base of earnings.
Looking at 2012's forecast I'd like to highlight that under the new methodology our current 2012 EPS forecast range is just below our peak earnings year of 2008.
This reflects the significant operational improvements made in our business over the past 5 years.
At this point I'll turn the call back to Greg.
Thanks Art.
And that does conclude our prepared remarks this morning.
So we'll move now to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] So at this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Alex Brand with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Greg -- and I'm wondering as you look at your transition that now kind of got accelerated in the last few months from early cycle rental to now the core lease business what are your thoughts about how your existing customers are turning over to new trucks and signing new leases? Are you at that point of the cycle and is this FMS lease growth accelerating to maybe a mid-single-digit growth rate going forward? I would say that there are 2 relevant points that have supported our growth with existing customers as well as potential customers apart from our own expertise in selling and marketing.
One is the average age of vehicles which is still getting older -- has been old and getting older -- so there is a compelling need that as long as you're still operating a business and you have freight and goods to move you need to replace those units.
And the other I think has been the stronger acceptance of the new technology because customers are finding that they're getting better fuel mileage.
So I'd say that those factors would suggest continued acceleration.
If you then could add on somewhat of a healthier economy I think that will continue to help that.
But even without the healthy robust economy I think those other 2 factors are playing an important role right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what about -- as it relates to also selling the maintenance are the customers more interested in that because of increasingly complex engines and increasingly complex regulation? I think that when you combine complexity cost and CSA scores which now also demonstrate how companies are doing they very much value our maintenance.
So whether it's standalone maintenance or maintenance in conjunction with lease I would say the receptivity is definitely accelerating.
Our next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the supply chain group -- and my sense is there was within the retail and the CPG segment -- there's some exposure to food- and drought-related crop failures and whatnot in the quarter.
Is there -- can you frame any potential impact that'll have in the fourth quarter maybe bleeding into the first quarter as well? Or is that kind of a one-off thing that was third quarter? Let me turn it over to John Williford in Supply Chain.
I think he can cover that for you.
Yes.
Thanks John.
Good question.
Yes I think that did have an impact in the third quarter.
And I would say we would expect that the drought to have -- to continue to have an impact at least for 1 to 2 more quarters.
We are seeing very strong sales in that sector though.
So certainly after 1 to 2 quarters we would expect the growth in CPG to really pick up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how big was that impact in the third quarter just kind of drought-related? We didn't point out the drought itself.
You can see from the CPG numbers they were down -- CPG/Retail was down about 5% year-over-year in the third quarter.
I don't know order of magnitude this -- most of that is CPG and not Retail.
And I'd say about half of that or maybe a little less than half is related to declines in volumes associated with the growing season.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a quick follow-up can you give some parameters as far as -- obviously the lease age is coming down you're starting to see that show up in margins et cetera.
But kind of where you are on a monthly basis for the lease portfolio as far as average age? And where -- how far that can trend over the next 3 or 4 quarters? All right.
Let me turn it over to Dennis Cooke who heads up FMS to talk about the fleet age.
Yes John.
What I'll say is it's come down about 3 months year-over-year and we're about 12 months from where we were back in 2008 which is when it was at its youngest age.
So we still got a ways to go.
But the age has come down more rapidly than we had predicted.
So we're -- again we're 3 months younger year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> So you're probably say that's 45-month-ish on a -- or is that right on an average age? A little higher than that.
Maybe -- 50 or more.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg I want to make sure I understand the comments on rental utilization here in the quarter.
It sounds like that demand was a little bit weaker than what you were expecting but utilization was still in the high 70s.
Historically my impression has been that you've been targeting kind of in the mid-70s as a normalized run rate or normalized utilization rate for the fleet.
Has that changed? Or how should we think about kind of the sweet spot for rental utilization? And then any commentary for expectations for rental utilization over the fourth quarter would be helpful as well.
Okay.
I think where we are right now in utilization is really pretty strong at 77%.
But you compare that to what was happening last year when the market was really hot and that's why you see that difference.
So we'd be very pleased with 77%.
And I think your earlier comments were right in the mid-70s.
As long as you're in balance that's very good utilization in terms of demand and pricing and everything else.
So unless -- anything you want to add to that Dennis? No.
I think you could expect a similar utilization heading into the fourth quarter.
And we focused on being able to respond quickly to what we see as market demand.
And I think we did that pretty effectively in the second and third quarter.
So in that high-70s is where we're going to target and we should hit it.
Yes.
Let me just add one thing.
The high-70s is really for the third and fourth quarter.
For the full year the target is mid-70s.
So usually utilization's a little lower in the first and second quarter.
Good point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- I guess all that makes sense but I mean just to clarify I mean the comments about saying that rental demand wasn't as strong as what you'd expected in the quarter and that's kind of an overall comment.
But with where the fleet is you've got the fleet to the right size to match with where industry-wide demand is.
Is that the right way to think about it? Absolutely.
And in fact you heard the numbers about the de-fleeting.
So I think being able to do that expeditiously and timely is really important.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
That helps.
And then just for my follow-up I think that there were comments both in FMS and in Supply Chain about single reduction in compensation-related expense in the quarter.
Does that relate to the headcount actions that you took midyear? Or is there anything that's related to reversing incentive compensation or bonus accruals here in the quarter? Yes both of those would be factors.
So there were some obviously compensation from some reduction.
But management incentives and bonuses are self-adjusting based on the performance of the company.
And although we've recently raised our guidance again and are coming in just under $4 you'll recall that when we put out our plans at the start of the year we were at $4 to $4.10.
Now all things considered to be as close as we are to $4 I think is great.
But that also means that we were short of our original plans.
Research Division</strong> Sure that makes sense.
Do you care to quantify how much the bonus-related amount was in the quarter? No that's too much detail.
Our next question is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The 8% increase in dedicated revenue how are the margins in that business? And can you comment on the driver recruiting and availability in the Dedicated segment? Yes.
The margins are comparable.
And some of that I'll point out is dedicated business for integral -- what we would call integrated projects with supply chain that probably would have showed up in the old supply chain numbers.
We changed all that when we changed the reporting.
And so the margins are comparable.
The -- in terms of drivers the driver openings and time to fill are both up a little bit maybe about 15% on a year-over-year basis.
And they're up mainly because of new business that we've sold right? So I'll just remind you we probably mentioned this before we have a pretty low turnover relative to the trucking industry in general.
We're under 25% in our dedicated business.
And so when you see openings go up it's usually because of growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And Robert when you were commenting on the used vehicle inventory levels -- I couldn't quite write fast enough -- you're talking about remaining above the target range of 68 000 vehicles for a few reasons if you could just kind of I guess restate those reasons? Yes.
The primary reason we think we're going to stay at those elevated levels is really because of the amount of lease replacement that we have over the next call it 15 to 18 months.
So as those vehicles get replaced with new ones the old ones go to the used trucks center.
We're going to have more than our normal amount coming in.
So we've stated that we're going to be in that 9 000 to 10 000 range for a period of time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So they're coming in faster than you can sell them basically.
Correct.
That's why we're having to do a little more wholesaling than we normally would.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I would say that's a good problem to have rather than the other way around.
You got it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a question for John Williford maybe on the high-tech slowdown.
Are you seeing that in any specific segment to the high-tech industry? Is that consumer product-related B to C? Is that B to B? What's going on in the high-tech market? I'd say generally it's across-the-board.
It's probably strongest in consumer product-type of high-tech products like laptops.
But it is -- and it's not concentrated in 1 or 2 customers.
It's a slowdown in high-tech that we've seen kind of accelerate a little bit and it's fairly broad.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when did that acceleration start or the slowdown really begin? Well at least in the consumer part of high-tech the peak season is -- there's -- for us if you're doing a logistics for it it's kind of September October.
And so the -- it's slowed down a little more there and the impact is a little stronger there because you have more business concentrated in those months.
Our next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A quick housekeeping question.
What is your end-of-period Full Service Lease fleet count and the end-of-period Commercial Rental fleet count? I know we have that noted here.
I'll let Dennis Cooke answer that.
Yes.
So for Full Service Lease globally it's 122 700.
And then in our Rental fleet end-of-period finished at 40 000.
I'm sorry I'm sorry.
It's 39 200.
Research Division</strong> Greg you talked about your CapEx for this year kind of coming at the lower end of that $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion range.
Could you help us think directionally how should we think about CapEx for 2013? Could you briefly talk about that if possible? Directionally but without specificity? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think that due to the heavy replacement cycle age of equipment and unless you have an economic meltdown I think you can expect to see a lot more units being renewed.
And therefore that's going to be capital that we will spend after the contracts are signed.
So that we'll have future revenue and earnings that we can count on.
I think that if you continue to see rental be less vibrant and slowing down we'd spent less on rental than we did in the last couple of years.
So I think you still may have some strength in lease capital but softer in rental.
I think directionally that's probably broad enough or give you an idea.
Research Division</strong> It does.
That's very helpful.
And then I guess you talked about Commercial Rental this -- the weakness.
Are you seeing these customers move into leasing at all? Dennis you want to comment? Yes.
I think as -- the answer is yes we're seeing some conversions.
That's been strong this year where customers do see the value proposition the total cost ownership benefit with leasing.
We are seeing some conversions.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk maybe Greg just -- if I can conceptualize the incremental margins within FMS during the third quarter relative to the second quarter it was almost 100% pass-through if we look at EBT sequentially? And can we -- can you help me think about the contributions from utilization -- commercial rental utilization stabilizing some of the cost reduction actions that you took in the second quarter having an impact and then the lower lease fleet age as well.
Can you rank those in order of magnitude to think about how we should think about incremental margins? I think Dennis can do that by order of magnitude but without necessarily specificity.
Yes.
I would say that the cost reduction the cost impact would probably be number one.
But number two close behind it would be Full Service Lease margin benefit.
And then the actions that we took in rental mitigated the downside that we saw from demand.
And I think going forward as the lease age continues to decline and we see our operational initiatives make an impact which they already are I think we're going to consider -- continue to see a benefit in lease margins.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Now that we've gotten to this double-digit threshold I guess it's reasonable to assume if volumes remain stable and lease fleet expands utilization remains stable that this 10% threshold is a new run rate as we think about '13 and beyond.
Is that fair? I think that's fair.
Yes that's fair.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And then John on the Supply Chain side can you talk about -- in the context of kind of weaker volumes specifically on the high-tech side.
But generally speaking forwarding volumes have been challenged.
How competitive have the bids then in contract logistics over the course of the past 6 months? Could you talk a little bit about the competitive dynamics specific to that vertical or that segment? Well the issue we faced in -- I'll answer that as 2-part question.
The issue we faced in high-tech in terms of existing volumes is independent from the issue of our competitiveness and winning bids.
What we're seeing is existing customers' volumes dropping -- softening during the year and that effect.
At the same time -- and I don't have this broken out even in my head by vertical -- but we are -- this year we will set a record for new sales.
So that -- I don't know if all of our competitors are setting records for new sales as well.
I -- that I don't know.
But I know that we're winning a lot of bids.
And those bids now we're signing them up now and throughout the fourth quarter.
So we'll see a lot of startups in the first half of next year and our growth rates will come up to our target levels by the end of the year next year.
So -- and that's in -- some of that's going on in high-tech and it's really going on across our business.
So it's very encouraging to see.
I don't -- I guess I don't see the softening volumes in high-tech or CPG we're always -- where we also see that.
Making the bids more competitive or more difficult to win or where we have to bid at a lower margin or something like that I haven't seen that.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
So just a follow-up on that earlier CapEx question Greg.
Is it a fair thought that given what's going on in rental that rental CapEx could come all the way down pretty close to 0 next year? And just with your CapEx views in mind overall and what your thoughts are on used truck pricing and wholesale versus retail can you give us maybe some directional thoughts on gains on sale and depreciation for next year? Well you have a few things there.
The -- your first question was about rental going down to 0 I think that would be much too extreme.
I think we'll have to have some replacement CapEx for rental.
We may be at the lower ends of normal for that replacement but I would not expect it would go to 0 unless we had cataclysmic financial meltdown in the environment.
On used vehicle sales I think that -- we mentioned that over time some of that pricing may soften but we still see this as a pretty strong robust market with good pricing.
In terms of the wholesaling we're going to continue that through 2013 is our expectation.
Because as I think Robert had said earlier we've got a lot of replacements coming at us and we want to be able to move the equipment out rapidly and not have increasing inventory.
So although we might prefer an 80% retail 20% wholesale it might be more like 70-30 kind of directionally for next year perhaps.
Was there another piece in your question? Yes.
I guess when you add those 2 things up how do you think that -- what do you think that means directionally for gains on sale next year up or down? And then just to follow up on your earlier point about rental what's your view of rental maintenance CapEx? That's probably a better way to think about it you're right.
Robert or Dennis you want to comment? Yes.
I think on the gains we don't have that mapped out yet.
But we're expecting a similar picture as to what you saw in 2012.
Still a lot of volume going through.
Pricing continues to remain strong.
So unless there's a change in that we're expecting that through next year.
The -- we're still selling pre-'07 engine vehicles which are highly desirable and we're still going to be selling a lot of those through next year.
So we expect that to continue to be a positive part of the story.
As we look at rental I think rental we probably saw in the second quarter and in the first quarter we saw a step-down.
We're seeing it kind of moving flat at this point but you said "a little bit below our expectation but not significantly." So we'll see as we get into next year what the economy holds.
But that -- right now that's what we're seeing.
And just to elaborate a bit in the Appendix if you go back to the pages on Page 41 we had obviously in 2009 that was a very soft environment during that financial environment.
And then you go to the end of 2010 we had $20 million -- $29 million in gains in net gains in vehicle sales.
$63 million at the end of -- by the end of last year.
And we've got $68 million through 9 months.
So these are still pretty strong net sales gains numbers.
So what they will be precisely? We'll let you know when we do the business plan or give you a better idea of the business plan but they're going to still be quite healthy in terms of contribution to our bottom line.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And if I can just squeeze in one last just a real quick one for Art.
What's your thought on what the pension headwind would have been for 2013 that we now need to take out of the model? Well if you recall from last year I provided some guidance and I was awful in that and I was tarred  and feathered from all over the country here.
So I think at this point it's hard to predict what the final number's going to be.
As you know there's a lot of moving parts in there.
The discount rate what the actual assets return at by the end of the year and then setting the expected go-forward rate.
So we haven't really done that work there.
I would tell you that we put a white paper out on pension that's on our website that you can access that provides some sensitivities of changing.
If you make assumptions about changes in discount rates expected return and actual return that could be helpful for you in trying to make that determination right now.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
This is Derek Rabe in for Art.
If I recall correctly the acquisition you made in August I believe that was the first one you've done since June of 2011 can you just talk to some of that dynamics in that in the acquisition market right now? Have you seen some of the factors that may have limited opportunities over that period start to ease a bit? And then could you just talk about the current pipeline? Yes.
I'll let Robert talk about that.
Yes.
We're -- as we've said on the call before we're always looking for opportunities and the right opportunity for acquisitions especially around our Fleet Management business and also around Supply Chain where we're adding new capabilities.
The environment is still I would say healthy in terms of discussions.
But it does boil down to when companies are ready to sell and when they're ready to make the move.
So I would say there hasn't been -- there probably hasn't been much of a change from what we've seen over the last 12 months and we're continuing to look for opportunities.
And we'll certainly -- we're certainly in a position to act on them as we find them.
And then as a quick follow-up I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the contract-related maintenance.
We did see that decline a little bit more than we had expected.
Just going forward can you discuss some of the puts and takes in that business just in the current environment? Should we expect to see some of the similar declines in the next couple of quarters maybe given the tough comps and also the decline in fleet age? Well we'll make sure we got the definition right because you said contract-related.
The -- that we distinguish from contract maintenance which is really what we proactively sell.
Contract-related maintenance only occurs if there might be some damage or abuse and it's called contract-related because then we do that work and then charge the customer outside the contract because of that.
So it -- that can be a little bit random in terms of is it snowy? Is it icy? Is it rainy? I mean what could be causing damage to vehicles? So that moves a little bit but a big movement up or down is not due to something fundamental.
Okay.
So do you typically see that track any of your metrics maybe lease miles driven something along that front? Yes.
I think you saw a little bit of -- if look at the year-to-date number it's pretty high.
Some of that is because of the acquisition that we did.
And we've -- that's what drove some of that growth in the first half of the year.
But what you're seeing now is more of a normalized rental when you take that out.
And I think as Greg mentioned that could be up 1%.
I think single-digits up or down is probably what you'd expect in a normal quarter.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess if I were to sum up the quarter in a sentence I might say that you saw earnings growth reaccelerate to 17% maybe split between self-help on the cost side and late cycle leasing leverage.
You mentioned that you're nearing past peak earnings this year.
At the same time you're going into this fading macro backdrop.
And I don't want to try to jump ahead to the January outlook but what can you tell us directionally about earnings growth next year if let's say we're in a 1.5% GDP-type scenario next year? Can you continue to grow earnings at least high single-digits? Well without going out on a limb and being specific you would think so.
Because we not only count on what's going on in the economy -- and 1.5% would be pretty modest but that's not to be unexpected -- but we also take a look at what we're doing in contractual selling.
And as you heard from our comments from the press release from listening to John Williford and Dennis Cooke in their respective segments we are signing up business at a fairly healthy pace.
So as long as that continues that's going to start billing at some point next year and that's going to have good flow-through.
In addition a big part of that improvement as you also referred to in FMS is the fleet continuing to get younger.
So when you have all of those things moving together you tend to start seeing an acceleration on the bottom line kind of like we had back in 2008.
Remember in 2008 -- there are some similarities today -- in 2008 we had a rapidly growing rising share price not just because we had record revenue and earnings but we were beginning to distinguish ourselves from many transportation-related companies.
And that's kind of what's happening now.
You've seen a lot of transports do negative pre-announcements and we've just raised our forecast.
In addition in that 2008 period rental was not very strong.
But contractual was and continued to be solid.
And that's where we're now entering.
So our expectation if you want to use history as an example we've got a couple hundred more basis points that we expect to get through adjusted FMS for a combination of reasons.
And that is going to I think suggest coupled with the strong contractual sales that we've got very good days ahead of us regardless of kind of the weakness or strength of the economy.
And whatever it is we're pushing to sell the value proposition.
I think it's being well received.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then as my follow-up if assuming you do grow next year and it sounds like you've high conviction on that you would deploy cash.
And that is the model whether it's organic through the lease fleet or through acquisition.
You're at the targeted leverage ratio today so how do you think about leverage next year if you were to use cash next year? Do you have to increase the targeted ratio? Or is there some other way that the capital structure changes a little bit? Well we naturally delever.
So I'll let Art cover that.
Yes Peter.
I mean I would keep in mind that this year even with the amount of spend that we talked about right which is at the low end that $2.1 billion capital spend we're actually if you exclude any kind of year-end pension adjustment we're saying we would have delevered from the prior year.
So when you factor in what we talked about earlier around rental probably spending less on rental in '13 than we did this year that would be made up -- that would imply a lot of growth in lease if you kept spending at the current level it was.
So I don't really see leverage being that much of an issue when it goes back to Greg's point that the business tends to deleverage.
You actually have to be fairly large negative free cash flow to lever up.
Our next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Yes.
Just a quick one on lease fleet average age.
I think we know we're seeing some margin benefit this year as we have a greater number of older trucks within the fleet coming up for renewal and replacement.
How should we think about that in 2013? Do we have a kind of a similar potential rate of fleet age replacement and average age coming down? Does that quicken next year? Or does that decelerate? I know there's a lot of moving parts to it.
But just kind of your general thoughts as we look out over the next 12 months.
Yes.
But in 2006 or 2007 there was a large buy before a technology change in '07.
And what you're seeing now is those units come to term.
So you've got a big replacement cycle that's occurring and that's going to be significant in 2013.
So as we replace those units I think you're going to continue to see the fleet get younger.
And again as I mentioned before there's also operational initiatives that we have in place that are going to continue to drive maintenance costs in a favorable direction.
Okay.
But it would be fair to I guess categorize 2013 as being another increased year of -- the pace of average lease fleet age coming down on the prebuys? That's correct.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on pension for Art and I may have to take a number of these off-line.
But really just 2 or 3 I'll focus on now.
Number one what you're not going to show on the income statement you are going to have on the cash flow statement right? Because you're not really changing your pension obligation.
So are we going to see an increased negative operating consequence to operating cash flow? Because you are going to get hit for interest costs and amortization and stuff like that on -- or I guess it's noncash but...
Yes it's noncash.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the cash flow will be enhanced as well is what you're saying.
No.
The cash flow we'll treat it as is.
We'll treat pension contributions as part of free cash flow.
We talked about that I think on the last call a little bit of -- with the -- they made some pension adjustments with the highway bill that are going to reduce pension contributions next year.
So that's probably a $30 million to $50 million reduction in our required contributions for 2013.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But we won't see an income statement benefit necessarily when those rates reset because we're really only counting what service costs? Yes yes.
It's just service cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there any effect on income tax rates as a result of this? From -- no no.
Pension is a timing difference.
So it doesn't affect your tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So effective tax rate is the same.
Yes effective tax rate is the same.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to this average fleet age question.
Based on your comments about '07 being the bulk-buy year is it fair to say that the -- what's called the 50-month average is not a true average? You've got some vehicles that are -- you've got a big chunk of vehicles that are a lot older.
Is that the right way to think about that? Yes.
Yes it's inappropriately leaning to the right.
And there were -- just one other thing Anthony they're '06s and '07s.
So there was a prebuy right before the '07 engine came out.
And those are the ones that are aging now and getting to the end of their life.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you sell those into the used market there is still strong demand for that vintage is that fair to say as well? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just jump to the dedicated market.
We've heard of some successes by the 4 higher carriers in replacing one of your larger competitors in some of the private fleet business.
That doesn't appear to have happened in your recent results.
So just a little color around what you're seeing in the competitive framework for the dedicated business.
Well the dedicated business is a very competitive segment.
We're one of the leaders.
We do face truckload carriers who have dedicated trucking divisions.
We have positioned ourselves I think very effectively in areas of the market where we think we are strongest and that tends to be integrated projects where dedicated trucking is integrated with our other services or projects that require specialized handling or specialized equipment where the truckload carriers don't have quite the advantage.
We do compete broadly in the market though.
But in those areas that we're really targeting we feel like we have a very strong competitive position.
We haven't seen any major change in that.
What we've been doing is just focusing more on that area and that is helping us grow.
Our next question is from Brad Delco with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Justin Long in for Brad.
I had a quick question on the trends you're seeing in rental just curious how those progressed throughout the quarter.
I know if you look back earlier this year you saw some weakness in May.
Things started to stabilize in June and July.
But just curious what you saw in August and October -- or August September and thus far in October.
Has there been continued volatility in that segment? Or are things still just kind of stable? I think we'd call them stable.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the cost savings for my second question.
You guys have outlined the $0.18 of EPS savings you expect in the second half of this year.
I would assume most of that is headcount-driven.
But as we look into next year are any of those savings sustainable if we see an environment where demand starts to accelerate? Yes.
And first it's not just headcount-driven.
There are other costs as well.
And I think when we spoke about it we expected over a 12-month or 4-quarter period about $0.36.
So it'd be $0.18 in the last 2 quarters of '12 and $0.18 in the first 2 quarters of '13.
Our next question is from David Campbell with Thompson Davis &amp; Company.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> Yes.
I just wanted to ask related to the decision to take nonoperating pension costs off the comparable earnings per share next year why not do the same for vehicle sales -- the gains on vehicle sales which have been generally up but could be also erratic? Yes.
I think David we're going to -- we view vehicle sales as core to our business.
It's integral to what we do.
We're -- remember we own hundreds of thousands of vehicles.
We've got to sell 25 000 30 000 vehicles every year.
So it's just a core part of the business.
I look at that as really an adjustment of the depreciation at the end of the day.
So it really wouldn't make sense for us.
We generate $300 million $400 million of cash from that.
So it's really core to the business.
Right.
I think that's the point.
It's not an issue of volatility it's what's core to the business or not.
And due to time constraints our final question today is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask on the Supply Chain side I noticed that autos continued to perform extremely well.
Could you just give a little bit of color as to whether you're seeing any signs of slowing in that side of the business? And then also related to the supply side -- supply chain retail we noticed had weakened in the third quarter relative to the year-to-date performance.
And I was just curious as to whether you see this as a near-term trend that persists? Or if there's something else going on there? Okay.
Well our auto business has been strong.
A lot of that's new business we've won.
Some of it is growth in volumes because the auto sector had a big decline in new car sales in the downturn years and that's been coming back.
We do expect new car sales nationwide.
I don't have the number it's a well-publicized number.
But we expect continued growth in new car sales for next year.
We also expect to keep winning our share of bids next year.
So we do expect to keep growing in automotive.
As far as your question on retail.
Yes the number we report is retail.
We combine retail and CPG.
As you can see it's become a very big part of our business when you combine it.
And also when you combine in our dedicated transportation business too into those numbers.
Retail I think what you're seeing in that combination is that is more of a decline on the CPG side consumer packaged goods which is mostly food and beverage and not so much of a decline on the retail side.
And like I said that we talked before when there was a couple of our big customers who sold business units and we knew we were going to have a little bit of headwind there and then that was exacerbated a little bit by especially this drought during the growing season where we kind of -- there are a couple of parts of our business in CPG where we expect a spike in volume during that season where we would -- just didn't get it this year because of the drought.
So that's really what happened there.
This does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Swienton for closing remarks.
Sure.
Well we're a little after noontime so I appreciate everyone hanging on an extra 7 or 8 Minutes.
But we got through at least one set of questions from each asker so thank you for that.
Thank you for your interest and have a good safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate and Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's fourth quarter 2012 earnings and 2013 forecast conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Greg Swienton Executive Chairman; Robert Sanchez President and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Thank you Bob and good morning everyone.
Today we'll recap our fourth quarter 2012 results review the asset management area and discuss our current outlook and forecast for 2013.
And then after our initial remarks as always we'll open up the call for questions.
But before I get into the actual numbers please allow me to make a few personal comments.
As you are aware in December we announced our organization plans and that I'll be retiring as Chairman after our annual shareholders meeting on May 3 and we've transitioned to Robert Sanchez as our new CEO effective the first of this year.
And as you've known him in various positions at Ryder over the years as CIO CFO President of FMS and Chief Operating Officer of the company I know you agree he's an ideal and a great choice.
For myself it's hard to believe how time flies by.
But today I am presenting Ryder results for the 55th consecutive quarter.
And in reaching almost 14 years I wanted to say how privileged and grateful I've been to not only to serve Ryder and our customers and our employees but also to thank all of you as investors and analysts for the relationships and the time we [Audio Gap] Improving our business model and direction and results that this was time very well spent together.
We've not only worked on improving our performance and credibility but we've also diligently worked at always providing solid and improved disclosure so you could understand our business.
We are unique in our portfolio of business and structure and therefore believe that the better you understand us and our business model and its subtleties the better you could be at analysis and investment which ultimately serves both of our mutual interests.
We believe in telling it to you straight in good times or bad times with challenged results or with great results.
And though I may not be the one personally delivering the earnings report in the future those commitments from the team at Ryder will not change.
So with that let me move on to our presentation.
On Page 4 fourth quarter results net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.07 for the fourth quarter 2012 up from $0.92 in the prior-year period.
Fourth quarter results included a $0.10 charge for vehicle-related losses from Superstorm Sandy and these vehicles were owned by Full Service Lease customers for which Ryder had liability under certain agreements.
We're currently pursuing recovery of these losses under the applicable insurance programs.
But at this time recovery remains uncertain.
We since enhanced our insurance coverage in order to mitigate this type of risk going forward.
In 2011 the fourth quarter included a $0.05 charge for acquisition-related restructuring costs.
So excluding these items in each year comparable EPS was $1.17 in the fourth quarter 2012 up from $0.97 in the prior year.
And this is an improvement of $0.20 or 21% over the prior-year period.
Our results also represent outperformance of $0.06 to $0.11 versus our fourth quarter forecast of $1.06 to $1.11.
And our outperformance this quarter primarily reflects better-than-expected rental demand and we estimate that Superstorm Sandy recovery efforts benefited operating results by approximately $0.03 largely due to increased rental demand as well as some additional used vehicle sales.
Total revenue increased 3% over the prior year.
And operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue increased 4%.
The increase in revenue reflects organic growth in Full Service Lease as well as increased volumes in new business in the SCS automotive sector.
Page 5 includes some additional financial statistics for the fourth quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased slightly to 50.8 million shares.
During the fourth quarter we did not purchase any shares under our $2 million share anti-dilutive program which expires in December 2013.
As of December 31 there were 51.4 million shares outstanding of which 50.8 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
The fourth quarter 2012 tax rate was 32.9% and this tax rate includes the impact of the Superstorm Sandy vehicle-related losses.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate would be 33.3% and the prior year's tax rate of 34.8% was impacted by acquisition-related restructuring costs.
And excluding this item in 2011 the comparable tax rate would've been 34.4%.
Earnings per share excluding the nonoperating portion of pension expense were $1.26 up by $0.24 or 24% over fourth quarter 2011.
And as a reminder beginning in 2013 we'll report comparable earnings per share on this basis by excluding nonoperating pension costs.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics on a full-year basis.
Operating revenue was up by 5%.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $4.04 up by 16% from $3.49 in the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital was 80 basis points for the year which represents an improvement of 60 basis points from 2011.
Earnings per share excluding nonoperating pension costs were $4.41 versus $3.71 last year up by $0.70 or 19%.
I'd like to turn now to Page 7 to discuss some of the key trends we saw during the fourth quarter in the business segments.
In Fleet Management total revenue grew 4% versus the prior year.
In total FMS revenue includes a 3% increase in fuel services revenue reflecting higher fuel prices.
FMS operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 4% as well.
And this increase primarily reflects organic growth in Full Service Lease.
Contractual revenue which includes both Full Service Lease and contract maintenance was up by 5%.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 6% versus the prior year due to higher rates on replacement vehicles and organic fleet growth.
At year-end the lease fleet size increased by 1 400 vehicles versus the prior year with organic growth of 900 vehicles.
On a sequential basis the organic lease fleet decreased by approximately 300 units from the end of the third quarter this year.
The sequential lease growth was impacted by planned nonrenewal of some lower margin trailers in the U.K.
and Sandy-related vehicle losses.
In contract maintenance the fleet grew year-over-year by 2 500 units and sequentially by 800 units.
The lease fleet aides began to decline in June and has steadily improved since then due to continued solid replacement of units by customers on higher-than-average lease expirations.
In the fourth quarter the lease fleet age was down by another month sequentially and was down by a total of 4 months during the year.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units increased 2% compared to the prior year.
Commercial Rental revenue was down 1% reflecting lower demand on a smaller fleet.
Rental demand was down 4% compared to the prior-year but was a little above expectations partly due to Superstorm Sandy recovery activity.
Rental utilization on power units was strong and above expectations although it declined 70 basis points to 78.2% from 78.9% in the prior year.
The average Rental fleet decreased 3% versus the prior year.
Global pricing on power units was up 3% which was generally in line with our expectation.
In the used vehicle area we saw a continued strong demand environment and good pricing.
Robert Sanchez will discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS results were driven by improved lease performance due mainly to lower maintenance costs and organic growth.
Earnings also benefited from lower compensation cost versus the prior year.
These benefits were partially offset by lower Commercial Rental results.
Earnings before tax and Fleet Management were up 17%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were up -- were 10.1% which were up 100 basis points from the prior year.
Turning to Page 8 in the Supply Chain Solutions segment total revenue was up 2% versus the prior year and operating revenue was up 4% as higher operating revenue was partially offset by lower subcontracted transportation.
SCS operating revenue grew due to higher volumes and new business in both the automotive sector and in Dedicated services.
Included in higher operating revenue was an 8% increase in revenue from Dedicated services.
Improved segment earnings were driven by increased volumes and new business in both automotive and Dedicated partially offset by higher medical benefit costs.
Supply chains earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 6.3% up 90 basis points from the prior year.
And in total SCS earnings before tax were up 22% from the prior year.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of our income statement which I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 highlights our full-year results by business segment.
We saw a mid-single digit operating revenue growth and double-digit earnings growth in both segments.
Comparable full-year earnings from continuing operations were $207.4 million up by 15% from $180.6 million in the prior year.
And at this point I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 11 full-year gross capital expenditures were approximately $2.2 billion up $400 million from the prior year.
This growth reflects an increase of $481 million for purchases of new leased vehicles.
This capital spending reflects an increase in the number of leases renewed growth in the fleet size and a higher investment cost per vehicle which is being priced in to customer rates.
Capital spending on Commercial Rental vehicles was down $80 million.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $413 million up by $113 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects more units sold versus last year as well as higher pricing.
Including a $130 million sale-leaseback in the second quarter net capital expenditures increased by $200 million to just over $1.6 billion.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of over $1.1 billion during 2012 $92 million over the prior year.
The improvement reflects higher cash-based earnings partially offset by increased pension contributions.
We generated $1.75 billion of total cash for the year up by $300 million including higher used vehicle sales as well as increased proceeds from sale-leasebacks.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by $434 million to approximately $2.1 billion.
The company had negative free cash flow of $384 million for the full-year.
Free cash flow was down by $127 million from the prior year's negative free cash flow due mainly to higher planned lease fleet investments.
Free cash flow came in somewhat below our latest forecast range of negative $270 million to $330 million primarily due to shorter OEM lead times on new lease vehicles ordered.
Page 13 addresses our debt to equity position.
Total obligations of just under $4 billion are up by over $500 million compared to year-end 2011.
The increased debt level is largely due to higher lease capital spending.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the year were 270% up from 261% at the end of 2011.
Our leverage calculation was impacted by a pension equity charge that was determined at year-end based on planned discount rates and asset values.
Year-end leverage increased by 12 percentage points from the pension charge which related primarily to lower discount rates.
The format of the charts shown here has been revised to illustrate the cumulative impact of the pension equity charge on leverage.
As you can see this impact has been quite significant in recent years and was 83 percentage points at year-end 2012.
Equity at the end of the year was just under $1.5 billion up by $150 million versus year-end 2011.
The equity increase was driven by higher earnings and was somewhat offset by a $50 million pension equity charge.
At this point I'll hand the call over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area globally.
At the end of the quarter our used vehicle inventory for sale was 9 200 vehicles up from 6 300 units in the fourth quarter of 2011 but in line with our expectations coming into the quarter.
On a sequential basis from the third quarter 2012 ending inventory increased by only 100 units.
Used Vehicle inventories are elevated beyond our typical target range by approximately 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles.
This largely reflects a planned increase in lease replacement activity.
Used Vehicle inventories are expected to remain in the 9 000 to 10 000 range during 2013 due to the continued heavier-than-normal lease expiration and replacement.
We sold 5 400 vehicles during the quarter up approximately 30% compared to the prior year reflecting continued strong market demand for used vehicles.
Pricing for used vehicles remained strong.
Comparisons were negatively impacted however by an increased use of wholesaling to manage inventory levels as discussed on previous earnings calls as well as some softening for tractor pricing coming off of historically high levels.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 proceeds from vehicles sold including wholesaled units were down 9% for tractors and up 2% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was down 3% and truck pricing was up 2% again including the increased wholesaling activity.
Retail pricing was down by 3% for tractors and up 6% on trucks on a year-over-year basis.
Given our current inventory levels as well as anticipated strength in lease replacement activity we expect to continue somewhat higher usage of wholesale channels in 2013.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term increased versus last year by 340 units.
This reflects and is consistent with the higher volume of renewal activity this year due to a heavier lease replacement cycle.
Early termination of leased vehicles declined by 225 units or 8%.
Early lease terminations remain at the lowest level in the past decade.
Our average Commercial Rental fleet was down 3% versus the prior year.
Following a normal -- a more-than-normal seasonal de-fleeting during the fourth quarter of 2012 the ending rental fleet was down by 4% or 1 600 units to end the year at 38 000 vehicles.
I'd like to turn now to discuss our outlook for 2013.
Pages 17 and 18 highlight some of the key assumptions in the development of our 2013 earnings forecast.
Our 2013 plan anticipates low to modest growth for the overall economy with continuing uncertainty in the macro environment.
Stronger-than-expected macro economic growth and/or a sustained housing recovery could provide upside to our forecast.
We expect to maintain the cost reductions implemented in mid-2012 and this should result in a carryover benefit from these actions into 2013.
In Fleet Management given the external environment we're anticipating continued solid contractual sales and modestly higher fleet renewal levels.
As in 2013 lease expirations are again higher than average this year.
We expect continued strength in lease replacement activity leading to further declines in the average age of the fleet.
A younger leased fleet combined with execution on maintenance costs initiatives is expected to result in ongoing maintenance cost reductions this year.
In Commercial Rental our forecast is based on modestly lower rental demand with improved utilization and pricing on a smaller fleet.
The strong Used Vehicle pricing results that we realized in 2012 will benefit depreciation rates this year as these results are blended into our average vehicle residual calculation.
This benefit is forecast to be slightly offset by lower gains on sale of used trucks in 2013.
We expect that the number of vehicles sold will increase due to the high lease replacement activity but are forecasting modestly lower pricing on some classes of power units as we come off historically high-pricing levels.
Our overall FMS margins are expected to increase due to a lower lease fleet age and maintenance cost organic contractual revenue growth the depreciation change and cost savings.
This increase in margin will partially offset -- will be partially offset by higher compensation insurance premiums and strategic investments.
Due to the elevated lease replacement cycle higher capital spending for vehicles to fulfill signed lease contracts is expected for 2013.
As a result of the significant investments we've already made in recent years to refresh our rental fleet as well as anticipated market conditions we believe that the rental fleet size and age are appropriate.
As such we plan significantly lower capital spending for rental units this year.
In total capital spending is expected to be lower and this will benefit free cash flow.
Turning to Page 18 in Supply Chain we expect growth in revenue due to both strong new sales including many deals signed in the second half of 2012 and improved retention which will more than offset slightly lower volumes in our high-tech and CPG industry verticals.
We're expecting continued improvement in SCS earnings driven both by revenue growth and leverage of overheads.
In terms of corporate actions we plan to temporarily pause our anti-dilutive share repurchase program.
As mentioned earlier we ended 2012 with a leverage ratio of total obligations to equity at 270% with a significant impact coming from the pension equity charge.
While this is within our target range of 250% to 300% in order to maintain near-term balance sheet flexibility and provide capacity we've elected to temporarily pause our anti-dilutive share repurchase program.
This leverage -- as leverage is expected to decline throughout 2013 we anticipate reinstating the anti-dilutive share repurchases at some point in the future as balance sheet conditions merit.
Page 19 provides the summary of some of the key financial statistics for our 2013 forecast.
Based on the assumptions I just outlined we expect operating revenue to grow 4% this year.
Comparable earnings from continuing operations are forecast to increase 8% to 11% showing strong operating leverage on our revenue growth.
Comparable earnings per share are expected to grow by 7% to 10% to a range of $4.70 to $4.85 in 2013 as compared to $4.41 in the prior year.
As a reminder these numbers exclude the impact of nonoperating pension cost as we'll report comparable earnings excluding this item starting in the first quarter of 2013.
Our average diluted share count is forecast to increase by 600 000 shares to 51.3 million shares outstanding.
We project a 2013 comparable tax rate of 35.2% which is slightly below prior year's tax rate of 35.4%.
The spread between our return on capital and cost of capital is forecast to widen from 80 basis points in 2012 to 100 basis points this year driven by higher projected earnings in both business segments.
The next page outlines our revenue expectations by business segment.
In Fleet Management contractual revenue in lease and contract maintenance is forecast to grow by 4%.
This largely reflects the improved organic growth higher rates on new sales resulting from increased vehicle investments and CPI rate increases.
In Commercial Rental we're forecasting a 2% decline in revenue due to lower expected demand on a smaller fleet.
Supply Chain operating revenue is expected to grow by approximately 6% for the year driven by new business activity and higher retention.
Due to the irregular timing of sales activity and the startup schedule of certain contracts Supply Chain revenue is expected to be only up slightly in the first quarter.
Page 21 provides a chart outlining the changes in our comparable EPS forecast from 2012 to 2013.
We plan to make certain strategic and discretionary investments to support the long-term growth and profitability of our business.
These investments fall mainly in the areas of customer phasing technology and sales and marketing investments.
These strategic investments are expected to cost between $0.23 and $0.27 this year.
Higher compensation expense is expected to cost between $0.20 and $0.23 a share this year while higher insurance and medical costs are expected to lower EPS by $0.21.
The temporary suspension of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program will reduce EPS by a projected $0.06 this year.
As a result of our expectations for low to modest macroeconomic growth and lower rental demand we're forecasting rental earnings to be unchanged as lower revenues is offset by higher utilization on a smaller fleet.
We're currently planning for the average rental fleet to be down by 7% or 2 600 units.
If conditions improve however either due to a better-than-forecast macro environment or an improving housing market this plan could be revised.
And we would also benefit through improved utilization and price.
The overall benefit from the actions taken in mid-2012 to reduce costs is expected to add $0.18 to EPS this year.
We expect improved results in Supply Chain Solutions in 2013.
New sales improved retention and leverage of overhead costs are projected to increase EPS by $0.21 to $0.24 a year.
In FMS the net impact of updated residual value estimates and gains on new vehicle sales is expected to benefit EPS by $0.29 to $0.31 this year.
As a reminder our annual update of residual values reflects a rolling multi-year average of Used Vehicle price levels and the stronger 2012 pricing we actually realized on sales.
The largest driver of 2013 EPS improvement is better performance from our contractual product lines in FMS.
This improvement is driven primarily by the maintenance cost benefit generated from a newer lease fleet and various maintenance initiatives.
At year-end 2012 the average age of our lease fleet was 4 months younger than it was at the end of 2011.
It's expected to decline further in 2013 due to the high levels of replacement activity.
Modestly positive organic fleet sales and returns on higher per unit investment costs are also forecast to benefit contractual FMS performance.
Overall the ongoing recovery of the lease and contract maintenance product lines is expected to benefit EPS by between $0.38 and $0.41 this year.
In total these items are expected to result in comparable earnings per share of $4.70 to $4.85 in 2013.
I'll turn it over to Art now to cover capital spending and cash flow.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 22 we're forecasting gross capital spending in the range of about $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion down by almost $300 million to $400 million from the prior year due to lower spending on rental vehicles.
Lease capital is projected to remain at the elevated levels seen in 2012 increasing modestly in '13 by up to $75 million.
Spending on replacements is forecast at $1.1 billion and represents a higher-than-normal level of expiring leases.
Replacement spending is currently anticipated to decline in 2014 as lease expirations return to a normalized range.
Growth-related lease spending in 2013 is forecast at $450 million to $500 million.
This includes $410 million to $420 million of higher purchased cost per vehicle and $40 million to $80 million due to growth in fleet size.
We plan to spend $150 million on Commercial Rental vehicles significantly below last year's spend of $542 million as our rental fleet is appropriately aged and sized relative to forecast demand levels.
As always please note that the split of capital between lease and rental could be revised during the year based upon movements of trucks between product lines and that lease capital is only spent once we've signed customer contracts.
Proceeds from sales of primarily revenue earning equipment are forecast to improve by $17 million to $430 million.
This reflects an increase in the number of vehicles sold.
We're not forecasting a sale-leaseback transaction this year.
As a result net capital expenditures are forecast at roughly $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion this represents a decrease of approximately $200 million to $300 million from 2012.
Accordingly free cash flow is forecast to improve to a negative $130 million to $190 million due to lower gross capital spending partially offset by the lack of a sale-leaseback in 2013 forecast.
We expect total obligations to equity will decline throughout the year to reach 241% to 245% by the end of 2013.
The year-end leverage forecast is just below the low end of our target range of 250% to 300% and includes the temporary pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program.
At this leverage we have capacity to support additional organic growth a typical acquisition spend and cushion for potential unplanned pension equity charges.
Turning to the next page our return on capital is forecast to increase from 5.6% in 2012 to 5.8% this year driven by growth in projected earnings outpacing growth in capital invested.
The spread between return on capital and cost of capital is projected to grow from 80 basis points in 2012 to 100 basis points in 2013 which returns the company back to prerecession levels.
Our longer-term target for capital spread remains 150 basis points and would be driven largely by improved returns on capital in FMS.
In addition to an improved spread in 2013 our projected total invested capital of over $5.6 billion is higher than any time in the past decade.
Page 24 provides a brief description of the change we're implementing to our comparable EPS metric.
As we've discussed on our third quarter call beginning this year comparable EPS will exclude nonoperating pension costs along with any other appropriate exclusions.
As you may recall our pension plans were frozen to all new and most existing participants several years ago.
Despite this action we and many other companies continue to experience significant earnings volatility due to pension accounting and changes in investment returns and discount rates.
We're implementing this change because we believe it provides better visibility to the company's operating performance and also reduces the volatility associated with this non-cash item.
The 2013 EPS forecast we just reviewed excludes nonoperating pension costs of $0.24 in 2013 and $0.37 in 2012.
We'll begin reporting actual results on this basis in the first quarter of 2013.
We provided 5 years of comparable quarterly EPS history under the new method and 10 years of quarterly nonoperating pension expense history for modeling purposes.
This information is included in the appendix to this presentation and also on our investor website.
At this point let me turn the call back over to Robert.
Thanks Art.
Turning to Page 25 as I previously outlined in the waterfall chart our full-year 2013 EPS forecast is a range of $4.70 to $4.85 up $0.29 to $0.44 from the comparable $4.41 in the prior year.
As Art covered 2012 comparable EPS has been adjusted to exclude $0.37 of nonoperating pension cost.
We're also providing a first quarter EPS forecast of $0.75 to $0.80 versus comparable prior year EPS of $0.69.
I'd like to point out that the first quarter forecast includes $0.02 of planned restructuring costs for FMS International operations which will remain in the comparable EPS for the quarter.
Turning to Page 26 we provided a view of historical and forecasted comparable earnings per share under the new reporting that excludes nonoperating pension cost.
As you can see the mid point of our 2013 EPS forecast is $4.78.
This represents record comparable EPS exceeding our prior peak earnings year of 2008 and reflects the many improvements made in the business over the past 5 years.
While FMS margins continue to improve they're expected to still remain below prerecession levels in 2013.
And as such we believe there's significant earnings upside in the business going forward.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
We had a lot of material to cover today with both our fourth quarter results and 2013 outlook.
As a result I'd ask that you limit yourself to 1 question and 1 follow-up each.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg let me say congratulations on your pending retirement.
I hope you get to spend some time with your family.
Thank you.
Well I'm here through May 3 if you need me.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm sure we'll be talking.
Let me start with your CapEx outlook and you did a great job on Page 22 of your presentation kind of walking through your forecast for 2013.
In particular your Full Service Lease replacement or Full Service Lease growth could you tell us what Full Service Lease replacement or Full Service Lease growth looked like for 2012 just so we could compare to 2013? Yes I'll let Art take a look at that.
It's probably not too different from what you're seeing in 2013.
Right Kevin yes.
Those numbers would be comparable.
Obviously we're spending a little bit more in the 2013 forecast so maybe a little bit higher this year around growth but not measurably.
Research Division</strong> Okay so a little bit more on growth okay.
All right.
And then just as a follow-up question here if we get to the back half of the year and then say the economy picks up will you have to grow your rental fleet or do you think you're still at the right size? Where if we do see some pickup in the economy you still have enough trucks in rental? Yes.
I think Kevin we have a few things we could do.
First thing what we can do is obviously get even better utilization on the fleet we have.
We have units that we have planned to dispose from our rental fleet that we could hang onto certainly throughout most of the season.
We can redeploy units coming off of lease and coming off other product lines into rental and we can do all those things without additional CapEx.
If it were to really heat up and I think we could probably handle maybe 3% demand increase that way 3% to 4%.
If it got beyond that then we'd probably be in a position that we would be adding some trucks.
Anything else Dennis? No that covers it Robert.
That asset management flexibility is what we'll turn to first before we spend the CapEx.
Our next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg best of luck for -- and whatever comes next.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Robert let's start with you.
When you -- we've discussed for several quarters the reasons why used truck prices have been as high as they have been and that you've been able to enjoy that for the last several quarters but we're talking now about that unwinding a bit in 2013.
In your mind does that just -- does that indicate that the replacement cycle that everyone's been talking about for so long is starting to unwind or is it just -- is there more kind of Ryder-specific pricing issues that you expect to happen in '13? No no.
I want to make sure we left the right message on that.
We expect slight reductions in some of the pricing but really still at a pretty healthy level.
We're coming off of record high Used Vehicle prices.
So I would probably describe it as still relatively strong pricing.
And again a lot of that is due to the fact that we still have the pre-'07 engine technology.
Plus what we're seeing in the market we're still seeing good demand on the used truck side.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then maybe switching over to the Supply Chain side.
John can you comment -- it's gotten progressively stronger now when you look at the guidance outlook for '13.
Supply Chain revenue growth is expected to be a bit stronger kind of leading the charges.
Can you comment on how much of that is just Ryder-specific kind of organic new business growth versus just the outsourced market getting better as a whole? Yes thanks for that question.
As Robert mentioned we've had really strong actually record sales in Q4 and that's been continuing into Q1.
I think there's a bunch of things going on.
I think our strategy of focusing on vertical industry groups is driving part of that.
And then I also think part of it is coming from some private fleet conversions that are out there that we're seeing more of and we're expecting to continue to see more of.
And probably a big driver there is the new CSA regulations that are causing private fleets to report and post their safety scores.
And some of these private fleet operators are starting to look at how their safety scores compare to companies like Ryder that focus on this as a business and have much better safety scores and are starting to consider outsourcing.
So we're seeing some more private fleet conversions and that's part of our growth as well.
Research Division</strong> What's the margin profile of the dedicated private fleet side versus your traditional Supply Chain? Well we used to report on that.
And so you could kind of look back in prior years.
It had been a little higher than Supply Chain and had come down a little bit in 2011 as we reported because of some of the challenges we had with some of the Scully accounts that we brought on if you remember.
And then during the year we kind of fixed those challenges and the margins came back up.
Probably I don't -- I'm not looking at the precise numbers but at a high level I would say they're back up to about the kind of margins we had historically had where they're very slightly higher and dedicated than they are in the rest of the business.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
That's safe to say that dedicated is -- the engine -- I mean you're getting slightly better growth at dedicated and slightly higher-margin which should reflect in the whole group? Yes I think that's a fair statement.
Our next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I know it was stated but Greg congratulations on the retirement certainly well-deserved.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about FMS margins? As we look toward -- or to calendar '14 and if we assume that the fleet age will start to normalize within the lease fleet at some point in time that year what prevents either that year's margin or as you exit that year the margin on an EBT basis as a percent of operating revenue at least matching 2006 peak of roughly 13%? Can you talk a little bit about some of the puts and takes and how we should think about what the margin profile will be if and when the lease fleet age does normalize? Well we're probably getting a little ahead of ourselves to talk about '14 yet.
But I can tell you that we expect the fleet age to continue to decline in 2013.
And I think it's fair to say that we'll also continue into 2014 based on our latest estimates.
So I would expect continued improvement coming from the fleet age and the maintenance cost reductions in FMS over the next certainly 12 and I would say even beyond that probably into the next 24 months.
So I think you're going to -- you're seeing in 2013 continued improvement in FMS margins I would expect that.
It still hasn't gotten back to prerecession levels.
And we expect that as we've said in the past to get to prerecession even a little better over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you've given some of this data in the past on the organic fleet side both within Full Service Lease and Commercial Rental.
Could you talk about where the fleet size is today on the Full Service Lease side relative to maybe 2008's peak and similarly commercial rental relative to maybe 2006's peak? How far are we from those peak levels? You have that data on hand? Let me -- the group is trying to get them.
I'm not sure we have that on hand.
But I can tell you if you remember the lease fleet was getting back close but the power fleet was still slightly below.
I think that's probably where we're at.
Our lease fleet -- our power fleet is still slightly below maybe the peak '08 in lease.
Right if you focus then prerecession we're probably that 1 000 2 000 units down still in power.
Because when we acquired Hill Hire they had a big trailer business and that's not obviously our core.
But our rental fleet just to follow up on rental our rental fleet as you know came down last year.
We started the year at about close to 40 000 units and we ended at 38 000.
And we're expecting now in 2013 to probably be down another 1 600 units if demand doesn't come back.
If it does obviously you'll see us hold off and keep that fleet up.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I turn to Slide 23 on the -- so I'm looking at the spreads between the cost of capital and the return on capital.
And we've seen this really terrific step-up from negative 2 in 2009 to positive 1 in '13.
I guess first question would be is there a way for me to estimate what the incremental spreads were in 2012? What kind of spreads were you writing incremental new business at? Right we write our lease businesses.
It's in that 60 to 100 basis points spread over cost of capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So as I look at the 2013 target of 1.0 and in the past past was like 1.0 to 1.2 back in 2005 2006.
Does that mean that you've  sort of repriced all of the sort of bad business last cycle and that the spread's kind of leveled off here? Or is there more upside to that number? Yes I would highlight first.
I wouldn't say we're repricing bad business.
Our pricing has been disciplined throughout the period.
So really what we've seen here is the fleet age associated with the lease businesses is dragging down the spread if you will right now.
We're starting to see that improve in '13 as we go to the replacement cycle.
And that really is what gives the upside that we see long-term.
Our target is 150 basis points spread.
Yes.
And I think the other thing that I would add to that is certainly a robust rental environment would help also.
And if you go back to '06 we were also in a pretty healthy rental year then.
So we saw some strengthening in rental would certainly help too.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way -- I mean do we know how much of the book was repriced since let's say January 1 '07 the last major kind of peak of the last truck cycle? Well yes if you assume it's 15% to 20% each year you probably have a lot of it already repriced.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right last question.
Maintenance costs we're seeing it from some of the other truckload carriers some of the public guys reported recently is their maintenance costs are still going up even though they really lowered the average age of their fleet.
What's been your experience so far on the post-2010 trucks? And I know you don't know inside their business but where do you think others in the industry aren't seeing the same earnings leverage from better maintenance costs with the new equipment? Yes.
I'll hand it over to Dennis to give you more color on that.
But I think a couple of things the holding periods on our fleet are very different than what many of the truckload guys are doing.
They hold them certainly shorter.
So -- and I think we certainly are benefiting from the expertise that we have in the maintenance area.
But we're -- our experience with the new technology has been good.
We work very closely with the OEMs.
And certainly there's more components with the new technology more expensive components.
But all in all I think the experience has been good.
Dennis you want to add? ' I would just add Peter that we've been focused on truck-up time and we're having a lot of benefit there by focusing on fewer breakdowns and fewer repairs in our -- between our PM cycles.
So with that focus we're getting some real benefit year-over-year with the maintenance costs.
Our next question is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Also on the -- your return on capital cost of capital slide that includes both FMS and SCS correct? That includes everything.
That's consolidated yes.
Yes the whole business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if SCS grows as a percent of operating income that spread should...
Yes that helps the spread.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the SCS your new business that's coming in is that mostly with existing customers opening up new plants? Are you seeing you guys in new geographies or is it new customers coming into Ryder? Mostly new customers.
Some of it's expansion with existing customers but no.
Most of it's new customers and it's kind of across-the-board.
It's in all of our vertical industry groups and it's in Dedicated as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And are there generally guys that are new to outsourcing or are you winning that business from competitors? Our best opportunities and certainly well over half of our new business is customers who are where the project at least is new to outsourcing.
Maybe the customers outsourced somewhere else in their company but the project is a new outsource.
The service we're performing is new outsourcing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And are you losing any business to insourcing that's been an issue? Or is outsourcing still the main [indiscernible]? It occasionally happens.
It's not on a net basis it's not even close.
We talk a lot about only 11% of the services we provide are outsourced.
We performed logistic services we provide in the U.S.
are outsourced.
So there's a huge that 89% that we're -- our strategy is aimed at going after that 89% and providing more value than anybody else and helping customers save money by outsourcing to us.
So that's really everything we're aiming at is the 89% that's not outsourced.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then 1 quick question on the comment made about shorter lead times at the OEMs.
I guess I didn't write it fast enough to understand what exactly you guys were talking about there? Right.
As we went through the year David we were seeing when we order equipment we forecast when it will be delivered to us.
And as we got later in the year the lead time shortened.
So we probably went from 4 months at the beginning of the year to at the end it was maybe 90 days.
So that drove a little bit more spending at the end of 2012 than what we had forecast.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But that's generally a good thing because it gets...
Yes there's nothing wrong with that.
I'm just saying.
I was more commenting about why our forecast was off a little bit on free cash flow.
Right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you expect that to trend back to the 4 months in 2013 or stay at the 90 days? Any idea from the OEMs? Dennis? Yes.
It's dependent on demand that we see in the marketplace.
So right now based on the estimate I think it's going to stay in that 3-month timeframe.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg and Robert congratulations to you both again.
I guess where I wanted to start on the waterfall chart looking at the headwinds that are coming in in '13 related to compensation and insurance in medical those are higher than what I would've expected.
Is that normal wage inflation? And is that something we should expect on the medical side based on where medical costs are going? I know that you just went through a period of cost reductions and you still have some benefit from that.
But I guess I'm just trying to get my arms around the salary increases and if that's related to having to bring on new people to support growth or kind of the leverage that you have in the model? Yes let me give you a little more color on it.
The compensation is a combination of salary increases that we give as part of our -- the normal annual process and also getting bonus back to the target level.
We fell short of our plan this year due to the challenges we had in rental.
So certainly a portion of that about half of that is for getting back to target.
So again that's self adjusting.
I guess if we don't hit the numbers that doesn't come in.
On insurance and medical again it's about 50/50.
About 50% of that $0.21 is due to higher insurance premiums.
And that's really been as we've renewed our insurance agreements we've seen some premium increases.
On the medical side we -- last year this last year we had some challenging experience in medical that we're now planning for some of that in 2013.
Obviously if that doesn't come in then we'll have a benefit.
Go ahead.
Right yes.
I mean Todd so a couple of things.
The insurance here we're focused on is more on the property.
It's not related to medical.
And the market is hardening generally around property insurance.
And also there is a post-Sandy impact there that's kind of embedded in there.
So we're anticipating that.
The medical side as Robert said we saw much higher medical costs in 2012.
We highlighted it a couple of times.
We went back in the second quarter as well as in the fourth quarter for Supply Chain.
So we forecasted that to grow a little bit based on I think it's prudent at this time.
2012 was in that sense not the best year for us so we may have some upside if it doesn't really replicate again in '13.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all of that helps.
So I just wanted to make sure it also wasn't all of Greg's severance I guess.
The follow-up that I had was there were some comments about the age of the lease fleet coming down I think 4 months this year? Can you talk about where the age of the lease fleet is relative to I think that it had bottomed somewhere below 40 months in 2009? Can you at least give us a sense of where it is relative to when you were at higher margin levels historically? Yes.
We still have some room to go right.
We're probably in the high 40s now.
And we still have -- we probably still have a way to go to get to the high 30s which is where we were.
High 30s low 40 range.
Low 40s back in during that time.
So we still expect certainly to get an improvement this year maybe 4 5 months.
And that's why I still think there's some opportunity for 2014 also.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me just start by congratulating Greg and saying a job well done to you and you're definitely leaving the company in some good hands.
Thank you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just I got a question about your leverage and your comments on the cumulative pension charge that is built up within that number and how we can think about that going forward? Because if I look at what your leverage is X that and I would -- in my opinion and correct me if I'm wrong on this but I would characterize that pension charge or liability however you want to phrase it it's somewhat contingent as it could potentially get reversed out going forward.
Given that it appears that the company would be significantly under-levered I guess from a historical perspective.
So is it fair to say that really even though you're up in that range or midpoint of that range that you're really not constrained going forward? I know you want to consider the ratings of the company and all that.
But as we think about the company you're really in a good position from that standpoint.
Help me how I should...
Right.
You're right.
You're right in that.
Art if you just look at balance sheet debt to equity we really haven't levered up that much.
Most of the increase has been driven by the pension equity charge.
Now that being said it is a metric.
It is an item that has to be considered.
It's factored in by the rating agencies when they look at the company.
And ratings are important to us.
So it's not something that we can just push aside if you will.
Now to your point about it's due really to this interest rate environment we've experienced over the last 3 years.
Discount rate is down over 200...
[Audio Gap] in the decade of the '90s free cash flow was a negative $3 billion.
In the decade of the 2000s free cash flow was a positive.
That $3 billion I think was the number.
So I want to talk a little bit about that because you've had 3 years of some pretty elevated capital spend.
And at what point in the next 2 to 3 years do you think we get back to kind of that normalized cap spend? And what do you think the free cash flow profile looks when we get back there? Because I see Chart 23 on return on capital cost of capital but yet it seems like the free cash flow wasn't what it was because of the higher cap spend? Can you talk a little bit about that? Yes.
Jeff I think and I'll let Art expand on this I think the biggest driver over the last few year's obviously been this replacement cycle that we're in on a lease which was really driven by a pretty significant replacement that happened in 2006 2007.
I think once you get past that you're going to see free cash flow improve obviously go positive.
And I would expect over a 10-year period to have similar free cash flow as we had in the 2000s.
But Art go ahead.
Right.
And one thing I would not lose sight of Jeff is when we talk on the deck on Page 22 about growth capital the lion's share of that is associated with replacement equipment right? So we said it was around just a little over $400 million of that is just on the replacement equipment.
And the 2012 spend had a similar amount.
We talked to Kevin earlier about that.
So you think about in the last 2 years what we're seeing in '12 and '13 there's $800 million of upfront spend that's kind of outside the normal run rate.
And that goes to Robert's point then as we move forward you're not going to see those kind of deltas going forward.
So that's from where you see the free cash flow play out over the cycle.
I think the important thing is we've maintained pricing discipline on the lease side.
And as long as we have that you're going to have some capital up front which is going to impact free cash flow negatively.
But the cash flows from that lease will come in for a 6- 7-year period and will provide you that benefit going forward.
Research Division</strong> So when we get to a normalized run rate on cap spend Art what kind of CapEx should we be looking at? Well it -- right here you see replacement is higher.
It's probably in that $1.3 billion $1.4 billion range I think at the higher levels that we're now at ever since the cost of vehicles are so much more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's what I'm getting at and I'll wrap up with this final point and then pass it on.
But if the cost of vehicles has risen do we need to generate higher margins across a cycle to compensate for that higher cost per vehicle if we're to get back to that $3 billion over 10-year kind of free cash flow thought process? Or at the end of the day are we swallowing so to speak the higher cost of equipment for our customers? No.
We should by the nature of our pricing model we should generate higher margins because we're getting a return on that capital.
And so even though it does cost more we're getting our returns so it may vary within the structure and the margin percents may start to change a little bit between the lines but on a net on a pretax basis you'll see earnings rise because we're getting a spread over that.
Our next question is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the fleet inventory days.
And I was wondering if you could just elaborate on how much of the inventory days outstanding may have changed? And then I guess related to that would you care to remind us the last time you may have had the write-down inventories? Okay.
Inventory days they were looking that up.
But we haven't had -- the last inventory write-down was way back in 2001.
And I'm sorry are you talking about inventory on used vehicles? Research Division</strong> I'm assuming.
Correct yes.
There hasn't been a big change in the days outstanding for inventory.
We've been running at this...
Elevated level.
Above this 9 000 range in inventory selling 5 000 to 5 500 units a quarter at that clip it hasn't really changed dramatically.
So just to remind you we adjust this adjust the price not adjust the pricing adjust the book values on an ongoing basis.
So it really minimizes the chance of a onetime write-down if you will of Used Vehicle.
Coming out of -- out of the '01 timeframe where we had that write-down we kind of changed some of our accounting around Used Vehicles to reflect any value declines we see as units age out.
And so that's kind of reflected in the numbers.
It's within the depreciation expense we reported at quarter and we could give you that offline as to how that -- what that totaled for Q4.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful I appreciate the additional color.
I know you'd commented that the sales activity has been very healthy.
So this is helpful.
And then just with regard to the commentary about the pause of the buybacks could you help give us a little bit of guidance in terms of what balance sheet benchmarks that we should be looking at to help us understand when the buybacks might resume or if there's certain debt coverage ratios that we might be able to calculate independently to help us understand how that might -- how that perspective on the buybacks might change? I think the main one we continue to focus on is the leverage metric.
Obviously we do look at interest coverage and the like but I would focus around the leverage.
And we're at right now at the lower end of the range by 2013 or the end of 2013.
So we're comfortable to have a little cushion there to provide the flexibility for growth and acquisitions as well as to cushion us around pension charges since we keep thinking it can't happen again but it's happened 3 straight years it seems like.
So I think as it moves down below that we'll see how the numbers play out in 2014.
That will start to drive our decisions about whether to reinstate it.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
Just wanted to go back to the waterfall chart for a second.
When I look at the strategic investments and other the headwind there it looks like it's about twice as big as what you estimated in last year's waterfall chart.
Can you give us a sense what's in here a little bit more color? And then how do we think about future benefits associated with these costs? Sure Scott.
We've got $0.23 or $0.27 in there.
I'd tell you about half of it I would really explain this as customer facing technology projects and some maintenance technology projects.
We're doing things that are going to make us more competitive in the marketplace with technology that we present to our customers giving them better fleet data better fleet information some investments we're making with a Write Smart telematics device.
And then also sales and marketing investments additional salespeople and some sales productivity investments.
So it's about half of it.
The other half there's several different items.
There's some onetime items some onetime benefits that we had in 2012 that we don't expect to recur in 2013.
And we also have some onetime hits from 2013 that were not in 2012.
As an example I mentioned the restructuring of some international activity in the first quarter.
We had a couple of cents there.
That is included in that number also.
Okay.
So maybe a normalized run rate as we think about future years is somewhere between what you laid out this year and what you laid out last year? Right.
I think that's fair.
Okay okay.
That's helpful.
And then just -- we've spent a lot of time talking about the age of the leasing fleet.
Is that all that needs to go right to get back to peak margins or are there other things? Because even though the fleet age started to come down and you saw margin improvement in '12 where we're still a ways below where we were in '06 and what are the other things that need to happen? Right.
I think there's really -- we've mentioned this in the past that there's about 300 basis points delta in our FMS margins from where we were last year to the peak.
And we said about half of that was really from improved fleet age and lower maintenance costs.
The other half is really growth and getting the fleet count the power fleet count back up to those levels.
And obviously also rental I think is another component that could help.
So I think if you look at it across those 3 items that's probably what's driving what would drive us getting back to peak margin levels.
And how do much lower interest rates today relative to then impact margin percent? Can you say that one more time Scott? So we have much lower interest rates today relative to peak in '06.
How does that impact margin percentages? It's not dramatic.
I mean as we price business obviously we're renewing them at and we contemplate the lower rate environment.
So some of that is manifest in lower pricing to customers.
And remember these are Full Service Leases.
So the cost structure interest is not a large component although you've got maintenance costs and depreciation as bigger components.
Your next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
I just wanted to dig in a little bit.
I think Robert mentioned there was roughly $0.03 of rental benefit from Hurricane Sandy or Superstorm Sandy whatever we're calling it these days.
But was curious to hear if a some of that carries forward in the first quarter and those customers hold on to those trucks? And then b looking at utilization how much of utilization improvement on the rental fleet was due to Sandy activity? Well yes you're right.
There was $0.03 in the fourth quarter.
It's really from improved rental demand as well as we had some used vehicles that were impacted by the storm.
And we had -- we accelerated the sale of those vehicles.
They're actually through an insurance coverage on those vehicles.
So the combination of those 2 was really the $0.03.
We are expecting in the first quarter to continue with some of the benefit around rent.
I think we've got about a penny in there for the first quarter.
And in terms of improvement in the utilization Dennis? We've got about 100 basis points of improvement.
Sorry 100 basis points of improvement year-over-year.
In utilization.
Yes I was just curious if we're able to distinguish between how much of that was just your regular business and then how much of that was potentially related to Sandy? I'm trying to get a sense for the ongoing kind of direction of the rental utilization.
Yes.
I think that maybe that -- what we do what we can tell you is that it was the fourth quarter was 100 basis points better than our expectation.
So a good chunk of that I would say was probably driven by Superstorm Sandy.
Along with the rightsizing that we had done on the fleet already.
Right.
Right.
So Matt one thing you want to keep in mind we talked about at as we were going through it is that we're positioning the fleet.
We have a smaller fleet in '13 relative to the prior-year and also we're forecasting lower demand.
That's going to be offset by higher planned utilization of the fleet.
So we would expect favorable comps from a utilization perspective in 2013.
Okay.
And then a second question related to I guess what sounds like a pickup in terms of demand for outsourcing of vehicles on the Dedicated side given the impact of CSA in the market just curious to hear if hours of service and the potential for that change this year is also part of that conversation? That's harder to tell.
The benefit we've seen in terms of fleets outsourcing because of CSA has been something we've seen anecdotally.
Customers have come and said "One reason we're thinking of outsourcing is this issue." I just haven't heard that as often about hours of service.
Our final question today is from Brad Delco with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I think Art I want to go back to a question earlier.
You said the replacement growth -- replacement and growth CapEx on the Full Service Lease is about the same incrementally a little bit higher though versus '12.
Is it fair to assume a similar change in the average equipment for lease in terms of growth call it 4.5% to 5%? I'm not sure.
I didn't understand the question Brad try that one more time? Research Division</strong> If your CapEx on Full Service Lease is fairly similar to '12 we have your average fleet count in the Full Service Lease up about 4.9% in 2012.
Should we think about the same amount of units being added to that business in '13 versus '12? Yes.
No what we had talked about earlier was we were forecasting fleet growth of about 500 to 1 000 units.
That's buried within the growth capital that I talked about.
Replacement is just that it's really the fleet size stays the same it's just the amount we have to spend for customers who are renewing.
Yes and the fleet growth is consistent with what we did this year.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Got you and that's where I wanted to get to.
And then so when I take that and looking back at kind of that waterfall chart for '12 the FMS contractual EPS contribution for the year that you expected this year was going to be -- I think it was $0.13 to $0.17.
So it's about $0.25 higher this year.
What really drives the difference of CapEx as the same.
Is that all average age savings that you're seeing? Yes that's reflecting the benefit of the fleet age.
Right.
And the maintenance initiative is what's driving on.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
So in essence bringing down the average age to be about $0.25 of that difference? Right average to average.
Yes that's probably right.
And this concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Robert Sanchez for closing comments.
Okay.
Well thank you very much.
We're about 15 minutes past the hour.
So we came -- we went a little long but I think we wanted to get to everybody's questions.
I appreciate everybody getting on the call.
And have a great day have a safe day and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Robert Sanchez President and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Greg Swienton Executive Chairman; Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our first quarter 2013 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
We'll then open the call up for questions.
Before we get into the results I'd like to take a minute to thank Greg Swienton for the many -- his many contributions to Ryder over the past 14 years.
As most of you know Greg will be retiring from the company as of our annual shareholders meeting next Friday May 3 although he'll still be available for us on a consulting basis for the next couple of years.
The impact that Greg has had on the company truly cannot be overstated.
For those of you who were around in 1999 when Greg joined Ryder you know that the company was facing a lot of challenges back then.
Ryder is a much different company today thanks to Greg's leadership.
He was instrumental in changing so many things about Ryder.
He earned the trust of our employees customers and shareholders by ensuring that we deliver on our commitments.
Greg focused us on what's important to our customers made us accountable for the results and developed a strong team throughout all areas of the company.
Most importantly Greg has given us a solid foundation for future growth.
All of this has been done with the highest ethical standards and utmost integrity.
Under Greg's tenure we closed 18 accretive acquisitions doubled the dividend and improved the free cash flow profile of the company.
Greg's focus has driven significant improvements in our earnings capital efficiency and return to shareholders.
On a personal level Greg has been an invaluable mentor to me and so many other people in our company.
I know that I speak on behalf of everyone at Ryder when I say Greg will truly be missed here.
But his legacy will live on in the company that we've become under his leadership.
With that I'll turn to an overview of our first quarter results.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.79 in the first quarter of 2013 up from $0.68 in the prior year period.
First quarter results include $0.02 of net expense from nonoperating pension costs partially offset by a foreign currency translation benefit.
The year-ago period included a $0.01 of net expense from acquisition-related restructuring and nonoperating pension costs partially offset by the resolution of a tax matter.
Excluding these items in both periods comparable EPS were $0.81 in the first quarter up from $0.69 in the prior year an improvement of $0.12 or 17%.
Total revenue grew 2%.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up 3%.
These revenue increases reflect organic growth in full service lease as well as higher volumes and new business in supply chain.
Page 5 includes some additional financials for the first quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 0.5 million shares to 51.4 million.
This reflects the temporary pause in our anti-dilutive share repurchase program which we discussed on our last call and is somewhat above our plan due to the increased employee stock activity.
As of March 31 there were 51.9 million shares outstanding of which 51.4 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
The first quarter of 2013 tax rate was 34.7% and includes the impact of nonoperating pension.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate would be 36.2%.
The prior year's tax rate of 26.9% benefited from the resolution of a tax matter partially offset by nonoperating pension costs and restructuring charges.
Excluding these items in 2012 the comparable tax rate would have been 37.3%.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital increased to 90 basis points from 30 basis points during the prior year.
This increase largely reflects the margin expansion in FMS.
I'll turn now to Page 6 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions total revenue grew 3%.
Total FMS revenue included a 1% decline in fuel service revenue reflecting fewer gallons sold.
Excluding fuel FMS operating revenue grew 4% driven mainly by growth in full service lease.
Contractual revenue which includes both full service lease and contract maintenance was up 4%.
Full service lease revenue grew 4% due to higher rate of replacement vehicles and higher miles driven.
The lease fleet was unchanged from the first quarter of 2012.
Sequentially from the fourth quarter the lease fleet declined but was in line with our expectation.
The age of our lease fleet began to decline last June reflecting replacement activity in a period of higher-than-average lease expirations.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down 1 month sequentially or 4 months since the first quarter of 2012.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units increased 4% up from the growth rate we saw in 2012.
Commercial rental revenue was up 1%.
Globally rental demand was down 2% from last year but was ahead of our expectations for a 4% decline.
This reflects better-than-expected demand in North America partially offset by weaker demand in the U.K.
The average rental fleet decreased 8% reflecting de-fleeting in the second half of 2012 in our 2013 fleet plan.
With stronger-than-forecast demand on a smaller fleet rental utilization on power units was 73.8% an improvement of almost 500 basis points over last year and a strong rate for the seasonally low first quarter.
Global pricing on power units was up 2%.
Given the rental environment we expanded capacity by redeploying vehicles into rental and expect to benefit from continued positive pricing trends.
In used vehicle sales we saw continued strong demand and good pricing.
We'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS earnings were driven by depreciation benefits resulting from improved residual values increased lease miles driven and a higher lease rates reflecting new engine technology.
Earnings before taxes in FMS were up 20%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 7.4% up 100 basis points from the prior year.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on Page 7.
Total revenue was up 1% as higher operating revenue was partially offset by lower subcontracted transportation.
SCS operating revenue grew 2% in line with our expectations for the first quarter.
This was driven by higher volumes and new business in both the automotive sector and in dedicated partially offset by lower volumes in high-tech.
Improved segment earnings of 9% were driven by favorable insurance development revenue growth and improved operating performance.
SCS earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue was 4.8% up 30 basis points from last year.
Page 8 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 9.
Gross capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $450 million.
That's down $338 million from the prior year.
This decrease primarily reflects lower planned investments in our commercial rental fleet.
Lease capital spending was also down somewhat but was in line with our plan for the quarter and we are making no changes to our capital spending forecast for the full year.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $113 million.
That's up by $19 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects more units sold versus last year.
Net capital expenditures decreased by $357 million to $336 million.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of almost $250 million during the quarter up by $63 million from the prior year.
The improvement reflects lower capital -- working capital needs and higher cash-based earnings.
We generated $393 million of total cash for the quarter up by almost $100 million reflecting higher operating cash flow and increased used vehicle sales proceeds.
Cash payments for capital expenditures during the quarter decreased by $50 million to $420 million.
The company had negative free cash flow of $27 million for the quarter.
Free cash flow did improve by $148 million from the prior year.
Page 11 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of just under $4 billion were relatively unchanged from year-end 2012 increasing by about $20 million.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 268% down slightly from 270% at the end of 2012.
Equity at the end of the quarter was just under $1.5 billion up by $24 million versus year-end 2012.
The equity increase was driven primarily by earnings.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 13 summarizes key results from our asset management area.
At the quarter end our used vehicle inventory for sale was 10 000 vehicles up from 8 700 units in the same period last year.
This is in line with the expected range that we previously communicated of 9 000 to 10 000 vehicles for 2013.
On a sequential basis from the fourth quarter of 2012 ending inventory increased by 800 units.
We're selling a healthy number of trucks.
Used vehicle sales were up 23% over last year at 5 800 units sold.
Inventories are elevated beyond a normal range though due to the heavy lease replacement cycle that we're in.
Pricing for used vehicles remained strong.
Compared with the first quarter of 2012 proceeds from vehicle sold were down 10% for tractors and up 6% for trucks including heavier-than-normal wholesale volumes.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 1% and truck pricing was up 6%.
Excluding wholesaling retail prices -- pricing was down by 10% for tractors and up by 13% for trucks on a year-over-year basis.
We plan to continue higher use of wholesale channels this year given our elevated inventory levels and our expectations for continued lease replacement activity.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by almost 350 units or 18%.
Early terminations of leased vehicles increased by just over 200 units but remained below pre-recessionary levels.
Redeployment of used trucks also increased by over 200 units demonstrating our ability to put these assets to work.
Our average commercial rental fleet was down by 8% versus prior year and down 4% sequentially.
We've added some rental capacity above our original plan by moving current trucks into the rental fleet given the strength of that market year-to-date.
I'll turn now to Page 15 and cover our outlook and forecast.
In the fleet management area full service lease performed well benefiting from better residual values higher rates on new vehicle technology and increased miles driven.
As anticipated in our plan lease -- the lease fleet grew year-over-year but not sequentially during the quarter.
Quote activity remained strong and we currently expect lease fleet growth to be at the low end of our prior range.
Separately we are seeing good interest and activity in our maintenance-only solutions.
Commercial rental demand in North America was better than expected resulting in higher utilization on a smaller fleet.
This impact was partially offset by softer rental conditions in the U.K.
The overall demand environment we saw in the first quarter has continued into early April.
We expect the continued strength in rental demand will provide opportunities for further increased fleet utilization and price and we're refining our fleet size plans.
Maintenance cost benefited from a decline in the average age of the lease fleet driven by elevated fleet replacements.
Some of the age-related benefits was offset by a higher number of units being prepared for sale as well as upfront costs of certain maintenance initiatives.
We're very focused on driving the benefits of these initiatives and expect to realize cost savings from them in future periods.
In the used vehicle area we expect inventories to remain at elevated levels this year due to the high lease replacement cycle.
We anticipate solid demand and strong pricing although pricing on some vehicle types may be somewhat down from recent historically high levels.
In supply chain as we discussed on our last call we expect improvement in revenue growth for the balance of the year as compared to the first quarter growth rate.
Finally a higher share count is negatively impacting us versus our original plan by around $0.04 this year due to higher stock price and increased employee share activity.
Given these factors we're reaffirming our full year comparable EPS forecast of $4.70 to $4.85.
This is up 7% to 10% from $4.41 in 2012.
Our second quarter comparable EPS forecast is $1.20 to $1.24 versus prior year of $1.09.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
At this point I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Kevin Sterling of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Robert you mentioned first quarter your maintenance cost did not decline as much in the quarter.
As we progress throughout 2013 do you expect an improvement in your maintenance cost for the remainder of 2013? Absolutely.
Kevin let me just clarify that our maintenance cost did improve year-over-year.
As you know we've -- the fleet age has come down plus we have maintenance initiatives that we're working on.
What we mentioned was that it did not come down as much as we had originally expected.
And that was primarily due to some investments that we're making on the maintenance side for these initiatives.
And we expect those investments to pay dividends in the balance of the year.
So I'll let Dennis elaborate on that if there's anything else for you to add.
Just 2 things Kevin that we saw in the first quarter.
To Robert's point first was we have a focus on vehicle uptime so we're focused on the quality of the PM the preventive maintenance.
So we're investing in that and focused on that in the first quarter.
Second as Robert mentioned earlier the number of units they were -- we were outservicing for used vehicle sales was elevated and that cost us more in the quarter also.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Robert you talked about the strength of the rental market.
What's driving that? And also what is driving the higher miles driven per vehicle in FMS as well? I think those are 2 very positive indications that we're seeing.
To me that's -- from what we see it's driven by economic activity.
And as you know those are usually leading indicators.
The rental demand in the U.S.
-- our rental demand in the U.S.
was down 2% -- our rental demand globally was down 2% versus our plan of 4%.
In the U.S.
it was actually slightly better than the 2%.
Utilization was at 74% versus 69% last year so that's a good trend.
I think what you're seeing there is there is economic activity going on.
Customers -- however because of the uncertainty customers are moving more towards the rental in the short term.
Lease miles going up is usually an indication that there is activity and customers who are leasing trucks are using their vehicles.
As you know that sometimes could be a little erratic from quarter-to-quarter.
However it was up 4% -- more than 4% which is the highest rise since the fourth quarter of 2010.
And probably just as importantly this is the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in miles driven per vehicle.
So I think both of those are 2 positive trends in terms of just general activity.
The next question is from David Ross with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the SCS side one of the reasons for the margin improvement was favorable insurance developments.
Can you add a little bit more color around that as to what the magnitude of the benefit was? Okay.
Yes it -- we have reserves for accidents and workers' comp.
And we have tracked a little better than we expected in the first quarter and that resulted in some improved margin there.
And that's only part of our improvement.
We're also -- we're growing.
And we were -- this is the -- I will point out this is the 10th quarter that we've improved our margin percentage -- 10th quarter in a row that we had at least either the same or an improved margin percentage.
And that -- so that trend is coming from just better operations.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that 4.8% is SCS would that have been 4.5% with a normal insurance quarter? No I think it would have been somewhere -- I don't have the exact number but it would have been somewhere -- there's a lot of puts and takes it would have been somewhere between the 4.5% and the 4.8%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the SCS as well lower subcontracted transportation in the quarter what was the reason for that? Is it...
Yes that can get a little -- yes that -- we have some accounts particularly in automotive where we manage the transportation and then we put in place the best solution.
And depending on the volumes we have at that account at any point in time that best solution might be using our own truck or it might be subcontracting to outside carriers.
Generally when the volume goes up at some of the automotive accounts and is more consistent it makes sense to operate our own trucks.
So when you see the operating revenue going up more than the gross revenue it just -- it tends to mean that we're shifting from -- for hire carriers at some automotive accounts to our own trucks.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that might have been one of the reasons for the increase in dedicated? Yes definitely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question is just on the rise in early terminations.
I know it's still kind of coming off of a low but is there any reason that people are ending contracts early? Yes David I wouldn't read much into that.
I mean we -- it was up 200 units.
It was still -- if you look at the last 7 years I think it's still the second lowest year.
And you can see that we're -- the units that have come back we've been able to redeploy those very easily so -- and it's just normal course of business.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could I get a little bit of specificity in terms of the elevated costs in FMS this quarter associated with some of the maintenance initiatives? I mean I'm just trying to get a sense for how -- one how much of a drag that was this quarter? And then I guess secondly how long that'll persist into -- in '13? Yes without getting into -- in too deep in the details I think the important thing is that our maintenance costs have come down.
Our margin in lease and in FMS has expanded.
And really the -- I would tell you the majority of the cost benefit we were expecting we've gotten.
There was some slight headwind from some of these investments that Dennis mentioned.
If you think about it the whole Ryder model is we do preventive maintenance on trucks.
We keep them on the road.
What we're trying to do is refine that even further to give better uptime and then lower overall maintenance costs.
So we had some new initiatives that we had begun this quarter that we expected to see some benefits a little early maybe we're a little too optimistic about it.
But we started seeing some of that already at the tail end of the quarter.
And then we expect to see that for the balance of the year.
So not -- we're not very concerned about what happened in the first quarter.
We're pretty confident that we're going to get our arms around it for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then on the lease side in terms of aggregate demand it sounds like it's trending in line with your expectations year-to-date.
Can you talk -- are you seeing any sort of investor -- customer appetite for 2014 purchases given some of the fuel efficiency gains associated with that model year? Has that changed your thinking in terms of maybe the shape of full service lease sales activity through '13 and into '14? Yes I -- right now we're seeing as you saw with the fleet age coming down we're seeing strong replacement activity which is if you think about it given still the continued uncertainty in the economic environment I think is a very good sign.
And the reason we're seeing it I think is because of some of the benefits clearly around uptime with the newer units as these vehicles have aged and the fuel efficiency that we're seeing with the units.
So I think that's going to continue.
Obviously we would really feel great if we had some boost from the economy that would raise where the customer that has 10 trucks needs that 11th one.
That would really crank up the growth side of the lease.
But in the meantime there's a lot of strong replacement activity going on.
I think we're making good progress on the initiatives to penetrate the non-outsourced market.
And we're going to stay focused on that because I think long term that's really the big growth opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify it sounds like the improved fuel efficiency of these '14 model year type trucks it is a driver but it's not the driver in terms of the fleet refresh activity.
It's something that could be incremental or something that could be -- yes it could be additive as we go through '13.
Is that fair? Yes.
And I think also depending on what's going on with fuel prices right? As fuel prices -- if fuel prices rise you get a lot more focus on that issue.
Right now they've come down some but that moves around quickly.
I think the other piece is natural gas.
As you know we're a leader in that industry natural gas vehicles.
The new 12-liter engines that are coming out now I think the 400-horsepower version is coming out in the third quarter.
We expect to see really a heightened interest in natural gas equipment as the higher-powered equipment comes on board which I think is also going to help with the fuel challenges.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then one last clarifying question on the share repurchase side.
I know there's been a focus on the credit profile and you should start to delever in the back half of '13.
Any thoughts in terms of when you'll reengage the share repurchase activity? Not yet Ben.
I think as you know the leverage really moved a little -- came down a little bit as we expected.
But the real decline we expect in the second half of the year.
We are -- we're going to monitor that closely.
We're also obviously looking at the acquisition activity that is out there.
And based on -- if we get to our targets sooner and depending on what's going on in acquisition activity we'll be able to make a call on when to turn it back on.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if I missed it but did you speak to cash flow expectations for the year? Yes Peter we haven't changed our expectations around free cash flow.
Beginning of the year we came out with a range of negative -- $130 million to $190 million so that hasn't changed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean normally when a leasing business is growing the -- growing the book the cash flow -- the free cash flow becomes a bigger -- you absorb more free cash.
This year it looks like your -- actually your free cash flow dynamics are getting better at the same time that earnings are improving.
What's the biggest -- what would you say like the biggest 2 drivers leading that right now? Right.
Remember we are -- we're still in that heavy lease replacement cycle.
So we're continuing a big spend in full service lease.
Where we've reduced our spending this year is around commercial rental.
That's down from almost $500 million to say $150 million sequentially.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last question.
So if we roll into the back half of this year how well positioned do you think you are right now in terms of the rental fleet? Are you feeling like you're fully utilized at this point given the better-than-expected utilization right now? Do you feel like you might have to add to the fleet as we get into peak shipping season later this year? Yes as we mentioned on the call in -- at the beginning of the year if demand came in stronger we said there's a few things that we could do before we added fleet right? We could delay selling some of the older units and we could redeploy some units coming off of lease applications put those into rental.
We're doing both of those.
So that's helping us capture more of the demand that's out there.
We are evaluating currently if we're going to spend -- if we may spend a little more to buy some more units and capture some of the demand that we're seeing here in the next few months.
So that's an option that we're evaluating right now.
Dennis is there anything else around that? No just building on what you said Robert we're really focused on the redeployments first before we look at new units but we're evaluating it.
As we stated upfront Peter in the U.S.
demand was stronger than we expected.
And so we're evaluating it every day as we're going through.
But again our first focus is on redeploying assets that are coming out of lease.
If they have more mileage and time on them then we're putting them into the rental fleet.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions around the average age of the fleet however you want to answer it.
How many months above average age are you now? And how does average age today compare to say 2007? I'm sorry Anthony you cut off on that last part.
How does the average age today compare to what? LLC Research Division</strong> The average age during 2007? During -- yes I think we're -- average age right now is right around 4 years.
And if you go back to our 2007 time period we were about 3 years.
So we're still about a year off from where we were back in the '07 days.
I don't know if you'll-- I don't know if we'll get all the way down to exactly 3 years because as you recall we had a huge replacement cycle that happened in 2006 which I don't know if that's going to recur.
But certainly we still have some room to go.
I mean we've talked about replacement activity remaining strong for the next -- really through -- at least through middle of 2014.
So we still have at least 1.25 years to go I think of this type of activity.
And that's a little bit dictated by what's going on in the economy.
If things really heat up you're going to see that speed up.
If they slow down you might see it stretch out a bit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a related question.
Some of us hold a view that if you look at today's FMS margins versus prior peak is that about half the difference between then and now relates to this higher maintenance expense.
Is that still a fair assumption? I think that's pretty accurate.
I think we're making half of it -- we said about a year ago that half of it was fleet age/maintenance related and the other half was more growth of the power fleet.
So we've probably made a little bit of headway into the maintenance cost but I still think you're probably close to half and half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question which again I hope is related.
The change -- you mentioned the change in residual value assumptions does that have anything to do with the -- as the fleet age decreases? Or just maybe a little bit of color on that would be helpful.
No that actually has to do with depreciation expense.
As you know we determine our residuals with a very systematic process that we do a 5-year look back each year at what we're selling used vehicles for.
And we use that to determine what the residual value should be for our vehicles that are in the fleet.
So as we've had very good strong used vehicle sales results those start to bleed into the 5-year averages and those residual values go up giving us a benefit on the depreciation expense.
So we said at the beginning of the year that this year we expected to get about $28 million in the year of depreciation expense benefit in FMS and that's really what that's about.
The good news is as long as used vehicle market continues to be strong and we're selling a lot of vehicles into it that bodes well for the future as we roll in this type of healthy market activity into our residual values and more importantly into our lease pricing which will make us more competitive against competitors in lease and also more competitive against private ownership.
The next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things real quick.
The increase in the lease miles is -- do you have a -- do you have kind of a feel on the threshold of that increase before you start to see maybe customers begin to take on more lease trucks? What should we expect? How much growth in that should we expect before you see that turn? I think prior to 2008 we probably thought we had a pretty good read on it.
It has been a little bit less predictable over the last -- this last cycle.
But I think that the good news is that 4 quarters straight quarters of increases is a really good sign that tells you that certainly the fleets that they have they're utilizing.
And that combined with the strong rental activity -- or strengthening rental activity are 2 very I think very positive signs on where this is going.
But it's hard to tell.
I think we are clearly still off of our peak miles per unit.
If you go back historically we're still slightly off of that number.
But once we reach that I would tell you it's probably an indication and you start to see some of that.
So how -- do you know how far off Dennis we are from our peak period? About 1% Robert.
I'd just add to that what it is we're looking at John is that for new units that are going in they're running about 16% more than the units that they replace.
So what we tend to see is when new units come in customers are running them more.
So that's -- as you're seeing this replacement cycle unfold it bodes well for the miles.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then similar kind of question on the rental fleet.
Utilization threshold is there a range you look at where below a certain threshold you immediately begin to take equipment out of rental? Or more importantly I hope in this regard is there an upper band where you feel like you have to immediately begin to add equipment to rental in order to keep utilization and make sure you've got enough equipment to satisfy need? Yes I'll let Dennis follow-up on that.
John I've always said that we do is we're looking at the fleet.
And if we see demand softening which we saw last year -- obviously we're not this year but last year what we'll do is rather than outservice it and send it to the used truck center we'll redeploy it to lease.
So you have a lot of customers who like to buy used equipment or to lease new equipment.
And that's been a very effective tool for us to defleet.
So if we do see softness we'll use our asset management capability to redeploy in the lease.
And a lot of customers like leasing a piece of used equipment that has 3 years left on it.
And I think the first part of your question about the upside.
I think we're -- remember utilization also is seasonal.
So we always say that our target utilization is the high 70s 78% let's say but that's for the full year.
74% in the first quarter is very strong.
So I would tell you the 74% in the first quarter will translate into the mid to high 70s for the second third quarter.
So what -- I guess to get to your question we are at that point where we're certainly redeploying units into rental from lease.
We're holding off on selling the units that we'd otherwise sell and then we're evaluating whether we may spend a little more on getting some new units in.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last quick question for you.
Obviously the vehicle age is coming down.
You saw the margin improvement in fleet management.
Again as the year progresses are we on the right run rate? I mean is this the right kind of margin improvement to extrapolate out through the year as that age continues to come down? I guess you're still on pace to replace about 22% of the fleet this year.
So are you on pace to kind of -- to continue to drop those maintenance costs out? Yes I think the answer to are we on pace to continue to drop maintenance costs the answer is yes.
We expect lease margins to continue to improve.
However when you look at FMS margins you need to also take into consideration the cost actions that we took in the middle of last year.
We are getting the benefit of that in the first half of this year and then we're going to see the comps get tougher in the second half.
So I'd be cautious about just assuming that type of an improvement on margins across the board not because of lease but primarily because of the cost actions that we're taking in the second half for the -- of last year.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to split hairs too much but I guess I want to come back to the full year guidance and your outlook.
You had a little bit of upside versus the high end of your range here in the quarter.
It sounds like North American rental is doing well even better than expected.
The lease activity was in line with expectations here in the quarter.
You didn't move the full year guidance.
I know that you've got the higher share count.
Is that the majority of it? Or there were some comments about the lease fleet and coming at the lower end of your expectations is there something going on with leasing activity that's a little bit different that what you were initially expecting? Yes.
I think Todd you've got it in terms of -- the biggest item is probably share count and $0.04 is -- can -- certainly has an impact.
Don't lose sight of U.K.
rental we mentioned came in a little softer than we expected so even though U.S.
rental is really strong versus our plan U.K.
-- economy in the U.K.
GDP was down in the fourth quarter.
So it's -- some of that softness is being reflected in our rental performance out there.
So that's creating a little bit of headwind.
And then I would just -- I guess the third piece is just the general economic uncertainty.
We had -- we're seeing good rental activity but the economy the way it is it's really difficult to say "Hey I know it's going to continue for the next 3 quarters." It's early in the year.
We beat the top end by $0.01 and that we're pleased with that.
We think it was certainly a very good performance versus our plan.
But there's still a lot of runway in the rest of the year in a relatively uncertain economic environment.
So on the lease side I would tell you it's really reflected maybe a little bit on the growth side.
But the good news is the replacement activity which is -- which really drives a lot of the margin enhancement is really moving strong.
And we're seeing a lot of that.
What we're missing again I think primarily due to this economic uncertainty is really picking up the growth that we'd like to see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so just to make sure I understand it.
It sounds like it's taking longer to close on new leases.
You've got the indications you've got the interest.
That's just actually getting the signed leases is probably the issue right now? Correct.
And I would be more specific and say especially around the growth pieces.
So we're -- if somebody wants to add a unit to their fleet those -- they're probably renting right now and they're considering to lease but haven't really inked it.
But as we talk to our sales team they're very busy.
There's a lot of activity.
There's been obviously a lot of activity around replacement but there's also activity around growth.
It's just the growth I think is still somewhat muted by what we're seeing in the economy.
Dennis is there anything else? No I agree.
The activity is high and the pipelines are robust.
So they're just not ready to ink yet so it's taking more time than we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how big is U.K.
rentals as a percentage of overall rental? Let's look that up.
Yes let's get that number.
Research Division</strong> And while Dennis looks for that maybe I can just ask the last one that I had.
The conversation on maintenance costs to me it sounded like there's 2 components of the guidance that you gave earlier in the year about maintenance.
One piece of the benefit would be related to what you're seeing from the mix shift in the younger fleet and the second piece would be some company-specific initiatives.
I guess I wanted to make sure that that was correct.
And if you could give an order of magnitude on both of those? And then secondly if you could talk about are you still seeing the maintenance on the mix shift piece progress the way you would expect and it's just the delay on the company-specific initiatives and that's what's pushing out some of the maintenance benefit here in the quarter? Okay let me take a stab at that.
If you think about how much of the benefit we think comes from -- if I understand the question is coming from the age and really the replacement and how much is initiatives it's probably a 70-30.
70% from the age and 30% from initiatives 80-20 maybe.
And what was the second part of the question I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> The piece that's related to the age.
Is that trending in line with your expectation? So there's not an issue? Yes absolutely.
The age is coming in.
We're seeing the benefit of the younger age.
The issue is just more around some of these initiatives.
And the time I would say it's really the timing of the benefits from the initiatives.
Plus in the quarter Todd we had as Dennis had mentioned earlier we saw more units go to our used truck center than we had anticipated.
So we incurred some more costs around that.
That's true.
And actually that piece of it was -- if you look at the pieces that we saw some headwind that was one of the bigger pieces.
We just had more units that we had to prepare for sale that goes into our maintenance cost and that was a little heavier in the first quarter than we expected.
We're really -- we expect to see a little bit of that in the second but then in the second half of the year we expect that to really back off.
And Todd let me come back.
The U.K.
is about 15% of our global rental revenue.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry Dennis can you repeat that? 15 1-5? 15% 1-5.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
LLC</strong> So a couple of things.
First can you talk about the impact of -- of how you think about fuel impacted you in the quarter? And with fuel coming down how that's impacting the guidance for the rest of the year? And then maybe just some thoughts on gains on sales which were up a little bit year-over-year.
Do you think that's a fair run rate going forward the rest of the year? Well Scott I think on fuel -- fuel as you know at Ryder's is primarily a pass-through.
We -- the majority of the fuel that we have is either fuel that we sell to our lease customers and rental customers or fuel that's in a contract on our supply chain side that is typically either passed through or has an associated adjusted surcharge.
So I would say fuel hasn't really had -- didn't really have a significant impact in the quarter.
On the gain side Art? Yes.
Gains overall we had expected used vehicle results kind of be flat year-over-year.
And that kind of -- it's kind of how it played out in the first quarter Scott.
Obviously gains are up a little bit but we also have higher write-downs that are embedded within depreciation.
So if you net those we're kind of flat year-over-year.
We're anticipating gains overall to be pretty much flat year-over-year.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of just the CapEx outlook.
If you do start to do some more on the rental side should we assume that that implies an increase in CapEx? Or are you going to take that out of somewhere else? And I know it's really early but based on your views of strong leasing demand or replacement demand through at least the middle of next year directionally how are you thinking about CapEx up or down for next year? Yes that's a good question Scott.
I -- we're looking at that right now.
I think there's 2 places that you might see some of that offset.
If we -- first of all if we spend money we don't expect it to be a significantly large number certainly relative to expenditures we've had in the past.
So we're looking at a -- we'd be looking at a very modest purchase.
And that could be offset by maybe spending less money in for example the U.K.
where we're having some challenges or over the balance of the year depending on what happens in lease.
So that's why we kept the CapEx forecast where it is.
I wouldn't expect any purchase we do on rental to have a significant increase in our CapEx overall.
I mean there might be some but it wouldn't be a significant number.
I mean I think on your -- to your question about next year.
I think what we've talked about is that 2014 is -- the replacement cycle process will be a little bit less than this year so we're not going to -- as we sit today don't expect to have to replace as many units.
So if anything that should drive down some of the lease capital.
Rental spend is relatively low this year notwithstanding what Robert was just talking about.
So we'd have to see that's below our run rate spend if you want to call it that.
So that could if anything probably would go up a little bit as you look out.
But we'd have to -- we have to think about that.
We haven't really quantified all our plans around that yet.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just last one.
If we do enter a period of rising interest rates how are you thinking about how that impacts leasing demand and then overall kind of contribution margins in FMS? I think in terms of leasing demand the fact that -- if interest rates go up for everyone whether you're going to lease a truck or you're going to buy it I think sort of makes it an almost neutral proposition.
If anything our ability to continue to borrow as you know it's one of the reasons why our credit rating is so important.
Our ability to continue to borrow at competitive rates I think still provides us an opportunity.
In terms of the impact of interest rates right now on our earnings Art do you have the exact numbers on that? Yes I don't see that.
I mean interest expense is about $35 million so -- for the quarter I don't expect it to have a significant impact if interest rates do rise.
It's the nature of our model Scott allows us to reprice business as we're quoting it realtime with interest rates as they're moving.
So we're able to match fund and really not have an issue.
The next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've covered so much so hopefully I can ask something salient to the conversation here.
But just -- as I looked at your numbers in the quarter your miles driven and your lease fleet up 4% very strong but you had a little bit of an uptick from the fourth quarter in early terminations.
Can you square that a little bit for me? Yes Art we talked about this a little bit earlier but I think there's not a lot to be read into that.
There was no noticeable change I think in the environment.
I think it's just normal course of business where even though it was up 200 units from last year it's still -- if you look at the last 7 years I think it's the second lowest year in the last 7 years.
So it's not -- it hasn't been a real issue.
When we've had units come back as you can see our redeployments are up more than 200.
So we're easily able to get those into other applications and get them with other customers running.
So it hasn't been a challenge at all especially actually I would even argue given the rental demand that we're seeing it's actually very simple to get units into -- that come off of a lease into rental.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just secondly any update or anything that you're seeing in the natural gas business that you would view as kind of positive or negative over the next 12 24 months? I think the big positive is going to be the introduction of this 400-horsepower 12-liter engine.
I think that one of the challenges that we've had with natural gas has been just the power of the equipment that's been out there.
And that equipment I think is going to open up the field to a much broader application.
We continue to make progress on introducing natural gas in different locations.
And I'll let Dennis elaborate on that.
Yes I would just add Art that the number of fueling stations is increasing significantly.
There's about 11 000 out there roughly CNG LNG stations.
That compares to about 85 000 diesel fueling stations.
And we're seeing the natural gas fueling stations increase at about 30% a year.
You've got a lot of investments that's coming in.
You hear from some industry experts that once you get to that 5 000 unit range -- 5 000 station range that's kind of the tipping point.
So we think it's going to continue to accelerate in terms of interest and growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And within your -- can you have dual service facilities -- Ryder facilities where you serve both natural gas and diesel? Yes.
Yes in fact we have a few of them now.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Greg best of luck to you as well.
Really most of my questions have been answered just some quick detail ones.
Let's follow-up on the natural gas vehicles.
Natural gas vehicles how much of an investment are you going to be making? And you talked about this higher horsepower 12-liter out in the market.
Is it going to be one of those things where your customers ask for it and then you buy it sometime after that? Or is it going to be where you're going to have a fleet of 50 or 100 or so of these 400-horsepower units on hand? How are you going to manage the natural gas inventory? Yes I think yes clearly our strategy is to go into a market look for a customer that's interested and then work with that customer to make the investment and the purchase.
So no our plan is not to go out and buy 400 of these on spec and then try to find customers.
The good news is that with the knowledge that we have and the expertise that we're gaining in this area there's a lot of customers coming to us that want to partner and move into these markets.
Where we do make the investment is really around the maintenance facilities and really upgrading those maintenance facilities to be able to maintain these natural gas vehicles.
So you will see us do that.
We're currently maintaining these types of vehicles in California in Arizona in Michigan.
We're now looking at Louisiana here shortly in the next few weeks we're going to have some capabilities there parts of Texas.
So we're really partnering with our customers to do that.
But no typically when we enter a market it's because we already have the customers who are interested in our or leasing the equipment.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But to your point what you're doing right now is more in that 9-liter engine displacement category and underwriting [ph]? Right well we're beginning to see the 12-liter engines -- the 300 -- 350-horsepower version is out so we're beginning to see -- to have some activity around that already.
Research Division</strong> But if I'm a customer roughly how much more or less not sure which way it goes am I paying to use a 12-liter truck versus a natural gas versus a 12-liter truck diesel? Or obviously you've got 12-liter engines.
Yes I think I got that question Jeff.
In terms of how much more are they paying it varies because where we're moving into are typically locations states that have -- that are offering grants and subsidies and help.
So in some cases it's -- there's not a difference at all.
In other cases it could be -- as you know some of these areas it could be upwards of 50% 60% so it depends.
And typically you have to find a customer who's got the application that can offset that cost.
When it's an even it's a no-brainer.
But when you've got a 30% 40% increase then you've got applications that are going to run enough miles that are going to offset that type of cost increase.
The next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
I wanted to circle back to commercial rental.
I know you've had a lot of questions on it.
But were there any particular end markets? And do you realize you have a pretty diverse book of business but particular end markets that stood out as being incrementally stronger during the first quarter? Dennis? Yes I'd point to a couple Matt.
Transportation and warehousing was up.
Food and beverage was also up and not as much but we did see a pickup from housing also.
So those are the 3 I'd point to.
Okay.
And roughly what percentage of your rental book of business is exposed to I guess construction markets? About 10% in that range.
Okay.
And then is there any way to I guess segregate the pickup in rental demand between what you saw in these 3 different verticals versus existing customers who are leasing trucks who maybe leaned a little bit harder on the rental product in the quarter? I'm just trying to get a sense for what -- what was external that drove this incremental demand? Or was it more a function of maybe some uncertainty in the economy? And your I guess existing lease customers may be using a higher percentage of rental here in the near term? Let me let Dennis look at some of those data.
But I think the -- probably a good way to look at it is it really was -- even though those were 3 of the segments it really was growth across the board which tells you that there is economic activity there's product moving combined with uncertainty leading to rental I think is probably a good way to think about it.
Now I don't know Dennis if you've got anything on the lease customers? Yes Robert.
Pure rental Matt which is where you're not renting for lease support if you will waiting for new leases.
That was -- we saw a growth in that area.
And we did see a little bit of what we call lease extra where you're looking for additional capacity beyond the lease units that you have.
So we saw it.
In those 2 areas is where the growth was.
So again pure rental where you're not leasing already we saw an increase and a little extra capacity needed in the lease extra area.
Okay so it sounds like a mix of both.
Right.
Right.
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> You've talked about the longer-term goal of top line growth in the SCS segment reaching that high single digit low double digit level.
And it looks like you could be pretty close to that level as we get further through the year.
Can you talk about the underlying assumptions that support that outlook? And also I know you have some new customers you're on-boarding but the timing of those customers coming online this year? That's a good question.
John? Okay.
Yes as we talked about starting late last year we saw a pretty sharp increase in new sales and we think that's very encouraging in our goal to get to this 7% or so long-term revenue growth in SCS.
Now we've been held back -- and we've talked about this before but we've been held back a little bit mainly by volume in our existing accounts some headwinds at big accounts.
So we've seen -- and you can see it in the results we've published.
You can see some headwinds at some of our large high-tech accounts.
and some of our large retail accounts.
And in one case where we had an account that had a big bulge in volume early last year and didn't have that same kind of onetime surge this year so it's mainly been that.
Now we do expect our revenue growth to improve in the second half of this year as we talked about before as some of these new sales come on.
But we also see continuing headwinds at some of these accounts.
So it's going to be hard to get all the way to the 7% this year.
We probably won't get -- we won't get to the 7% this year.
And it's the existing account headwinds.
It's also -- some of our automotive accounts have talked about cutting production.
So that's going to hold us back from -- maybe we'll get to the 5% by the -- run rate by the end of the year.
But we do think with the new sales we're seeing and we're continuing to see that over the long term we can get to that 7% number.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful color.
And I know we're running a little bit long.
But last question I was wondering how much Sandy impacted the first quarter.
And going forward what's your expectation there in terms of the timing of the rebuilding efforts and any impact that could have on your business? Sandy yes I know.
That was -- we've been seeing impacts from that around our -- some part of our rental demand especially in the northeast obviously is driven by that.
I don't -- we don't know exactly how long that will last.
I think beyond that there's really probably no more significant benefits or impacts going forward.
Yes I don't know if it's big enough to really even be able to point it out because rental demand for example was up in the northeast and certainly in the affected area but it was really up across the board also.
So we are seeing it just kind of blending in a bit with the results.
Our final question today is from David Campbell with Thompson Davis &amp; Company.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> I just -- all my questions have been answered except one and that is the number of shares.
You mentioned 51.9 million at the end of the quarter but only 51.4 million average for the quarter so should we be using 51.9 million for the year? No no David.
That's the number that's on our balance sheet where it's a requirement that you disclose of unvested restricted stock that's outstanding as part of that.
So the calculation we had given our plan for the full year was 51.3 million.
We actually were 300 000 or 400 000 higher than that in the first quarter.
So you probably ought to plan that 300 000 or 400 000 higher so 51.6 million 51.7 million type of range is what probably you should use.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well I want to thank everybody for getting on the call.
Certainly thank you for your interest in our company.
And I hope all of you have a safe day and we'll be talking to you soon.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
And if you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll see here some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our second quarter 2013 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
We'll then open up the call for questions.
With that let's turn to an overview of our second quarter results.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.19 for the second quarter 2013 up from $0.91 in the prior-year period.
Second quarter results included $0.06 of non-operating pension cost.
The year-ago period included $0.18 of net expense related to non-operating pension cost and restructuring charges.
Excluding these items in both periods comparable earnings per share were $1.25 in the second quarter up from $1.09 in the prior year an improvement of $0.16 or 15%.
Total revenue grew 3%.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up by 4%.
These revenue increases reflect new business and supply chain as well as lease revenue growth.
Page 5 includes some additional financials for the second quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 1.2 million shares to 51.9 million.
This reflects the temporary pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program that we discussed previously and is higher than planned due to increased employee stock activity.
As of June 30 there were 52.3 million shares outstanding of which 51.9 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
Our second quarter 2013 tax rate was 35.7% and includes the impact of non-operating pension cost.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate would be 36%.
This rate is below the prior year comparable tax rate of 36.8% reflecting a higher proportion of earnings in lower tax jurisdictions this year as well as the impact of a prior year tax law change.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics for the year-to-date period.
Operating revenue is up 3%.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.06 up by 16% from $1.78 in the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital increased to 110 basis points for the trailing 12-month period up from 50 basis points in the prior year.
We now expect this spread to remain at 110 basis points which is wider than our original plan as we continue to make good progress towards our longer-term target of 150 basis points.
I'll turn now to Page 7 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions total revenue grew 2%.
Total FMS revenue included a decline of 0.5% in fuel services revenue due to lower fuel cost.
Excluding fuel FMS operating revenue grew 3% driven mainly by growth in Full Service Lease.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 4% due to higher rates on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology.
Our lease fleet declined by 1% from the prior year reflecting nonrenewal of some low-margin trailers in the U.K.
the impact of economic uncertainty and more efficient redeployment of off-lease vehicles.
Miles driven per vehicle per day in the U.S.
lease power fleet increased 2%.
Miles per vehicle have improved over the past 2 years and are now only 2% below their pre-recession levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 as a result of elevated replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down by 1 month sequentially or 4 months since the second quarter of last year.
Contract maintenance revenue declined 3% due to a shift in vehicle mix reflecting more trailers and fewer power units.
Contract-related maintenance increased 12% since the prior year partially due to our new on-demand maintenance products which is in the pilot stage with several large customers.
Commercial Rental revenue was down by 1%.
Globally rental demand was down 4% from last year but better than the 5% decline we expected coming into the quarter.
This reflects better-than-expected demand in the U.S.
partially offset by weaker demand in the U.K.
The average rental fleet declined 10% due to de-fleeting in the second half of 2012.
With stronger-than-forecast demand on a smaller fleet rental utilization on power units was 80.5% an improvement of 550 basis points over last year and a very strong absolute rate.
Global pricing on power units was up 2%.
Given this rental environment we are expanding -- we expanded capacity in the U.S.
by redeploying vehicles from lease into rental and by purchasing a modest number of new vehicles.
In used vehicle sales we saw continued solid demand and good pricing.
I'll discuss these results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS earnings were driven by higher lease rates reflecting new engine technology and improved residual values.
Earnings before taxes in FMS were up 16%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 10.4% up 120 basis points from the prior year.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on Page 8.
Total revenue was up 5% and operating revenue grew by 6%.
These increases are due to new business primarily in dedicated.
We've seen nice sales in dedicated coming from both new customer wins supported by outsourcing trends and from our internal efforts to migrate customers from lease into dedicated.
Segment earnings improved 8% reflecting new business offset by increased commissions paid upfront on new sales.
SCS earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 6.3% consistent with the prior year.
Page 9 shows the business segment views of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 reflects our year-to-date results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review this results in detail but I'll just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $107.5 million up by 17% from $91.5 million in the prior period.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 11 year-to-date gross capital expenditures were just under $1 billion that's down $328 million from the prior year.
This decrease primarily reflects lower planned investments in our Commercial Rental fleet.
Around lease capital we're seeing a higher-than-planned percentage of sales being filled with new equipment versus used equipment.
This is obviously a positive story as we're contracting for longer terms.
However capital spend will be up.
This additional spend offsets the impact of less-than-planned fleet growth.
Around rental capital given improved demand versus our initial expectations we're going to spend a modest additional amount on U.S.
rental purchases partially offset by lower purchases in the U.K.
As a result of these factors we expect full year capital expenditures to be at the high end of our forecast range.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue-earning equipment of $229 million up by $30 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects more units sold versus last year.
Net capital expenditures decreased by $228 million to $760 million.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of $564 million year-to-date.
It was up by $92 million from the prior year.
The improvement reflects lower working capital needs higher earnings and lower pension contributions.
We generated $841 million of total cash year-to-date up by $7 million reflecting higher operating cash flow in the current period offset by a sale leaseback in the prior year.
Cash payments for capital expenditures decreased by $256 million to $948 million year-to-date.
The company had negative free cash flow of $107 million year-to-date.
Free cash flow did improve by $263 million from the prior year due to higher cash from operations and lower rental capital spending.
As a reminder our original full year free cash flow forecast was for negative $130 million to $190 million.
Given the capital spending trends I just discussed we now expect to be around negative $190 million.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of $4 billion increased by $87 million from year-end 2012.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 262% down from 270% at the end of 2012.
Ryder maintains a long-term target leverage range which reflects our focus on having solid investment-grade credit ratings and broad access to the capital markets.
In light of these long-term objectives we slightly -- we are slightly revising our long-term range from 250% to 300% leverage to 225% to 275%.
As we previously discussed our leverage has been impacted by pension equity charges driven largely by an historically low-interest rate environment.
As of June 30 76 percentage points of leverage were due to pension equity charges.
As market interest rates rise our leverage will decline all other factors being equal.
This should provide us with additional balance sheet capacity and flexibility over time.
We calculate the pension equity charge at December 31 of each year.
Given year-to-date asset performance and interest rate moves we have the opportunity for favorable pension impacts for the first time since 2009.
Assuming current discount rates and asset values in our pension plan the year-end 2013 pension equity adjustment would free up 10 to 15 additional percentage points of leverage.
Equity at the end of the quarter was over $1.5 billion.
It's up by $80 million versus year-end 2012.
The equity increase was driven primarily by earnings.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area.
At quarter end our used vehicle inventory for sale was 9 600 vehicles up from 9 200 units in the same period last year.
This is in line with the expected range that we previously communicated of 9 000 to 10 000 vehicles for 2013 reflecting the elevated lease vehicle replacement cycle.
On a sequential basis from the first quarter of 2013 ending inventories decreased by 400 units and are expected to be lower by year end.
Pricing for used vehicles remained generally stable.
Comparable -- compared with the second quarter of 2012 proceeds from vehicles sold were down 1% for tractors and up 2% for trucks including heavier-than-normal wholesale volumes due to the replacement cycle.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was down 3% and truck pricing was up 1%.
Excluding wholesaling retail pricing was down 7% for tractors primarily due to selling older units and up 4% for trucks on a year-to-date basis.
We plan to continue higher use of wholesale channels this year given our elevated inventory levels and our expectations for continued lease replacement activity.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by almost 784 units or 20%.
Early terminations of leased vehicles increased by 365 units but remained well below pre-recessionary levels.
Our average Commercial Rental fleet was down by 10% versus prior year and was unchanged from the first quarter.
I'll turn now to Page 17 and cover our outlook and forecast.
In fleet management we saw nice improvement in full service lease revenue driven by higher rates on new vehicle technology and better residual values.
The lease fleet is somewhat below our expectations reflecting nonrenewal of some low-margin trailers in the U.K.
the impact of economic uncertainty and more efficient redeployment of units coming off-lease.
We expect the lease fleet to remain around the current levels through the balance of the year as modest growth in the U.S.
is offset by additional nonrenewals of low-margin trailers in the U.K.
Over the longer term we remain confident in our ability to grow the lease fleet by both secular outsourcing trends and our own internal initiatives.
We expect Commercial Rental to continue to perform above our initial expectations with higher-than-expected demand in the U.S.
partially offset by softer economic conditions in the U.K.
We're very pleased with the early success from new product initiatives such as on-demand maintenance solutions and natural gas vehicles and are encouraged by opportunities they provide for further -- to further penetrate the private fleet and the for-hire market.
While currently small in size relative to our overall business these products could become important drivers of growth in the coming years.
We continue to expect maintenance cost benefits driven by an elevated number of lease fleet replacements.
Although we didn't realize all the benefits anticipated in the second quarter from our maintenance initiatives we continue to focus on driving lower cost in future periods.
In the used vehicle area we expect inventories to decline from the current levels by the end of the year.
We anticipate solid demand and generally stable pricing.
In supply chain we expect continued growth in revenue and earnings.
We're particularly encouraged by the strong sales activity in our dedicated service offering where we're seeing outsourcing activity driven by CSA regulations driver shortages and other macro trends.
We're also benefiting from our internal initiatives to migrate customers from lease up to dedicated.
Finally our higher share count versus our original plan is expected to negatively impact our earnings by $0.05 this year due to higher share price and increased employee share activity.
A higher-than-expected tax rate will also negatively impact earnings by $0.02.
Given these factors we're narrowing our full year comparable earnings per share forecast to $4.75 to $4.85 from $4.70 to $4.85.
This is an increase of 8% to 10% from $4.41 in 2012.
Our third quarter comparable earnings per share forecast is $1.41 to $1.46 versus the prior year of $1.37.
Our forecast for the full year includes margin expansion in both segments.
In FMS we expect to deliver full year double-digit margins for the first time since 2008.
This margin expansion is despite continued economic uncertainty headwinds impacting lease fleet growth.
Over time we remain confident that we will realize FMS margins at levels that we saw back in 2007 and 2008.
Given the changes in the environment since that time the makeup of the FMS margins maybe a bit different and will likely include contributions from growth benefits and fleet replacements improving residual values new products and services and cost management.
That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning.
At this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from David Ross with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about in your lease comments more efficient redeployment of off-lease vehicles.
Can you just add a little more color on what that means? Sure.
If you remember on the last call we talked about -- as rental was coming in stronger than expected in the U.S.
we would look to sell fewer units out of rental so hold onto them a little longer and we would also redeploy units coming off-lease into the rental product line.
So over the last quarter really through the year we have done quite a bit more of that than we normally do.
So that's accounted for about 800 additional units that otherwise would be in an off-lease status.
So they'd be in the lease fleet count but would not be earning revenue -- or actually earning revenue in rental now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about the on-demand maintenance product that I think you're testing with some larger customers.
What exactly is the on-demand maintenance product and how's that expected to get you more business or more profitability? Sure.
Well as you know we've been working on various new initiatives and new products to help us really solve customer problems and penetrate more of the non-outsourced market.
One of those products that we've been piloting is really doing maintenance primarily targeted at the for-hire carrier market and just doing maintenance on those fleets.
That is a very large market segment.
We have found that many of those customers although they have their own maintenance facilities there's a lot of maintenance that they do with third parties and we are looking to work with them to help them in that area.
So far we have a couple customers that we've been piloting and the results are coming out pretty promising.
So we expect that to grow.
As I said it's still a very small part of the total business but I would expect in the coming years it to become a bigger part of the growth story.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think there would be a lot of opportunity there.
And then just quickly on the supply-chain side of things.
You mentioned dedicated being very strong.
But on the more transportation management supply chain logistics piece what industry segments were strong? What regions trade lanes might have been considered strong in the quarter and which might have underperformed? John? Yes.
Well we've had good growth in our CPG business segment and good growth in Mexico have been the 2 highest growing areas.
And then we've -- our growth has been a little constrained by existing volumes in automotive.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So auto did very well the last couple of years but it kind of isn't getting much better? Is that what you're seeing? Yes.
And the thing in automotive for us is we have -- while we have general exposure to almost all the car companies and all the Tier 1s we have a little more exposure on certain projects that are aimed at certain plants especially when we do all the trucking to supply a given plant.
And we've had a couple of car companies with specific models and plants where the volumes are down and that -- as you can see from our results auto was only up 2% in the quarter and that's what's holding us back a little bit there.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to the discussion on the long-term leverage targets.
And I guess I was just curious it obviously sounds like the pension impact is going to be favorable for the balance sheet at the end of the year but -- so the decision to reduce the leverage targets is that driven by the credit agencies or is that a function of what's happening with interest rates? I'm just curious as to what the thinking behind that is right now.
Yes Todd.
This is Art.
Yes it's a combination of a lot of factors.
Obviously we had a long-standing target of 250% to 300% that was set many years ago before we actually were in that range.
As we've been in the range over the last few years we've obviously doubled our efforts to make sure we understand our standing within that.
It is impacted to a certain extent by where pension is and where we expect it to be over a period of time.
So in light of that we took all those factors into account to determine what was the best range for us to maintain a solid investment-grade rating as well as keeping the right access to the capital markets.
Research Division</strong> And then does that push out the timing of when we could potentially see you come back into at least buying stock on the anti-dilutive side? That is going to be an item -- as we've talked about we paused it for this year.
The plan would be to take a look at it again next year and it's a combination of -- one of the reasons why we paused it was we wanted to reduce leverage a little bit to provide flexibility for acquisitions and the like.
We haven't done any deals yet.
But you're right we're going to see benefits from pension.
So we'll have to look at it as we move forward into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the lease fleet can you put a number around the number of trailers that came out from the U.K.
during the quarter? I'm just kind of trying to get an idea of maybe what an implied organic growth rate would be if you excluded the mix impact.
Sure.
If you look at -- we're down year-to-date Todd about 2 100 units and U.K.
trailers is about 800 of those units.
That's the ones that we had planned to take out.
In addition to that this redeployment of vehicles from lease into rental makes up another 800 units as I mentioned earlier.
So you got 1 600 of those units that are really these 2 activities.
The balance of it is softer-than-expected results in terms of sales and that's primarily in the U.K.
As you know the U.K.
economy is extremely soft and we're seeing the impact of some of that not only in rental but also in lease.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Robert so the comments about the lease fleet being consistent going forward are there more trailers that are going to come out? Or what's kind of the mix impact I guess for the rest of the year as well? Yes.
For the balance of the year we expect some more trailers to come out.
There's going to be an additional 500 trailers between now and the end of the year in the U.K.
And then we expect again some additional softness in the U.K.
really offsetting some fleet growth that we expect in the U.S.
So the U.S.
we expect fleet growth from this point in terms of lease and it's going to be offset by some softness in the U.K.
Research Division</strong> And so the mix of all that though should be favorable from a margin standpoint because you're trading out low-margin units on the trailer side with probably more normal margins -- or maybe even higher margin business in the U.S.
because it's new equipment? That's correct.
The power is significantly more margin dollars if you will than the trailers.
And these trailers are really related to the acquisition we did a few years ago.
When we did the acquisition we did it primarily for the power fleet that we could use to leverage our infrastructure.
There was a trailer fleet that came along with it that we had originally planned we would certainly partially de-fleet over time.
Research Division</strong> Right I remember that.
Okay.
And then the last one I had and I'll turn it over on the maintenance initiatives this year I think in your original guidance when you had a range of $0.38 to $0.41 and part of that was on the fleet age coming down and then some internal initiatives on the maintenance side.
I guess I'm curious -- the comments in the release stated it sounded like that there's still some more benefit to recognize.
Is the lease fleet age on track with your expectations and then you're still expecting something on the internal maintenance initiatives? And how does that impact margins for the rest of the year then? Yes.
Both of those have been built into the range that we gave.
But yes we are seeing the benefit of the fleet getting younger.
We are a little bit behind on the initiatives that we had laid out.
If you remember there was a couple of things driving that.
One is that we had more units to outsource -- to out-service and sent to the used truck centers [ph] primarily in the first quarter.
And then there were some initiatives.
The example I gave was really around we hired some additional technicians in order to do more work in-house versus sending it out to third parties.
We still think that's the right thing to do.
We're seeing benefits at least from an uptime standpoint with our units.
But the cost benefit that we were expecting we haven't gotten all of that yet.
So that's an example of some of that.
Research Division</strong> Do you still expect to get the full amount though of the guidance this year? Or does some of that get pushed out? We expect by the end of the year to start getting most of it.
But yes the full dollar amount for the year we're going to be short.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on -- I guess when a customer -- my first question is when a customer moves from lease to dedicated what does the internal accounting of that look like? I assume it moves -- revenue recognition you said [ph] moves from one division to the other.
Is that correct? Yes you're going to see-- what happens there is the customer will then become a dedicated customer will -- with the third-party revenue obviously being recognized there.
But like with all the equipment in dedicated it's leased from our FMS division.
So you'll see FMS still have the truck on its books and then we have that line equipment contribution where we eliminate the inter-company profits if you will.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's not going to have much of an influence if we're trying to look at the size of the lease fleet.
Correct? Right.
That shouldn't affect the lease fleet because it stays within the lease fleet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for John.
You mentioned Mexico.
Could you tell us what you're doing there right now? How much of the supply chain is Mexico? And are you involved with some of the auto business down there? Yes.
All our verticals have businesses in Mexico.
We have a really -- I think we have a very strong competitive position in Mexico.
We have a really nice setup.
We have a multi-client warehousing in all the main cities in Mexico and also at all the border crossings in Mexico.
We have a multi-client transportation network that connects all those cities and also runs cross-border to and from the U.S.
We have a focus on the same type of customers we have in the U.S.
so primarily auto high-tech CPG and retail.
If you're looking for numbers we did -- I think we did about $30 million of operating revenue in the second quarter and about $3 million of NBT in the second quarter...
LLC Research Division</strong> What do you think those...
In Mexico.
LLC Research Division</strong> What do you think those numbers were last year? Excuse me? I missed that question.
LLC Research Division</strong> The revenue in NBT Q2 of '12 from Mexico? Q2 of '12? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just curious...
Q2 of '12 -- give me a second.
Well we grew about 9% in operating revenue and we had very significant growth in profit which is a number so high I'm not going to read.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could I -- just looking at rental utilization and it being above 80% the highest that we have on record.
Why not better pricing on the rental product this quarter on a year-over-year basis? Maybe -- there is no accusation there.
I'm just trying to get an understanding of how you guys are looking at utilization here above 80% relative to price and also wanting to maintain some of those engagements and hope to transition those over to lease.
Can you talk a little bit about the logic there? Right.
I think you got the gist of it.
It -- obviously we'd like to run out and just raise rental rates tomorrow much higher.
The issue is we're coming off -- remember we were coming off of a year -- last year we had -- we were in the opposite situation.
We had too many vehicles.
So it's a way of really doing it in a way that's digestible for the customer base.
A portion of our rental business is with lease customers where their rates are more contracted if you will.
So those take a little longer to move up.
And on the spot market we are moving them up.
As a matter of fact we had a rate increase that we rolled out towards the tail end of the second quarter that we'll start to see some more of that kick in in the third and fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good.
On these maintenance initiatives some of the benefit being deferred into 2014 Robert when do you think the full effect will be absorbed within the segment for the various initiatives both the reduction in the fleet age -- or the normalization of the fleet age I should say plus the realization of these other initiatives? Is it mid-2014? Is it late 2014? Is it into 2015? Yes I think it's into early -- at least early 2015 for the replacement cycle.
However maintenance initiatives are an annual event.
I mean we do this every year.
We identify things that we can do better and that we want to focus on in order to improve the operation to be more efficient and you're going to see -- we've done it every year.
You're going to see us continue to do that so that's an ongoing just continuous improvement process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John just a follow-up on the comment that you had made within auto.
With respect to some of the challenges that you guys had model-specific or product-specific is that just -- is that a function of the given OEMs' model and it's something that when we get the change-over and we go toward the fall those product-specific issues should normalize? Is it just something that is a function of the given product here in 2013 and it won't persist into 2014? How should we think about that? Yes.
I mean like I said we have such broad exposure to automotive.
In the long term it'll -- it has to normalize.
I feel like we got some bad luck with a couple of plants but it's not going to normalize in the second half.
It should get -- actually those couple situations should get a little bit worse in the second half of this year and maybe be a 1-point drag 1 point in growth drag on us in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could sneak 1 more question in.
Robert your perspective on the U.K.
economy we know it's soft there's some leasing headwinds that you're experiencing there with some anecdotes generally about signs of bottoming in Europe.
What is your sense about the U.K.
economy and kind of where we are as it relates to the economic cycle? Yes.
I think if you look at it GDP is still sub-1% they're expecting for this year.
It does appear to be hitting the transportation sector more heavily because there -- the OEM production there of commercial equipment is down about 20% 25% from their forecast at the beginning of the year.
So we're seeing the impact of that not only on the rental side but also on new lease sales.
So I think it's moving sideways for now and we'll see if things begin to improve here over the next -- over the balance of the year or certainly getting into 2014.
The next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I'm regurgitating anything and I unfortunately got on the call late but I kind of just want to go back to your decision to lower the targeted leverage range that you have.
And could you comment on how maybe you think that may impact your position competitively? Or should we really be thinking about this going forward that if we get higher interest rates that really lower pension obligations is going to really wash out your -- going to still be able to grow the business? Yes.
Let me take a shot at that Art.
The decision to lower the range as Art said was really driven by our focus around maintaining a solid investment-grade rating and that's something that in order to be competitive in the marketplace we believe we need to do.
In terms of the impact on our lease pricing it is very small.
So I don't see that being a significant driver on lease.
I think interest rates going up though are important because as interest rates rise our pension liability will come down and you will see a positive impact on our leverage.
It will bring our leverage down quicker.
So as that happens obviously we get -- we start to get closer to a position where we could start to turn back on our anti-dilutive share repurchase program.
So I think net-net interest rates going up is more of a positive story for Ryder because of the impact that it's going to -- positive impact it will have on our pension.
And as you know...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that I think -- will that make you more competitive vis-à-vis some of the regional and kind of local competitors that you face in the marketplace? It's hard to tell.
I think our competitive advantage versus the local guys is much broader than just the interest rate side.
It's purchasing leverage.
It's leverage across all our facilities and our residual values as we sell vehicles through our used truck network.
So those are probably bigger drivers in terms of the competitive advantage than just the interest rates.
Right.
I think when you think about interest rates for us from a corporate view pension has accounted for about 76 percentage points of our leverage right now.
So as that -- that will come down as interest rates rise and it normalizes it will just provide us with a lot more balance sheet flexibility and capacity to handle acquisition growth and things like that.
The next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Robert let me first follow up on the question Ben asked on utilization in the rental fleet.
The timing as far as modeling going forward with utilization versus price how long does it take for that to roll over? I mean could we see utilization stay at or near 80% over the next couple of quarters? Or do you see that switch into more rate and less utilization for the back half of the year? Well it's just seasonally you would expect utilization to remain strong in the third and the fourth quarter.
We are at historically very high levels right now at 80% so 80-plus-percent.
So I would say barring any significant change in the economy or in activity utilization levels should remain strong certainly into the third quarter and most of the fourth quarter really just dropping off post holiday in the fourth quarter.
So I think that that would be a reasonable assumption for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> But since we're kind of in uncharted territory here at 80% how high is -- if you see that seasonal swing up I mean could you get a couple of hundred more basis points? Or is 85% out of the realm of possibility? Or...
No -- yes we're probably at the peak levels here.
If you can -- you may be able to swing up maybe another percentage point or so but we are really in uncharted territory.
I think most of the benefit will come from price uplift in the next couple of quarters primarily around some of our more transactional-type customers.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
That's fair.
On the maintenance side new contract maintenance versus contract-related maintenance so your contract maintenance truck count kind of slid throughout the quarter contract-related maintenance is growing.
Are those tied together at all? I mean is one pulling from the other? Or they're completely different products? That the growth in contract-related doesn't...
Yes.
I don't think it's as simple as one's pulling from the other.
I think there are just different products that we're beginning to offer now.
In contract-related as I mentioned earlier we're beginning to offer and piloting this on-demand maintenance that maybe historically -- actually historically we probably wouldn't have been dealing with those customers.
But you might have had more growth on the contract maintenance side.
So I think they complement each other and there different product offerings that we can offer different market segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
With your contract-related still in line for double-digit-ish type of growth but with the fleet count within the contract maintenance division should that kind of reverse the trend that you saw in second quarter going forward? Or is there any kind of drivers there that we should be modeling or thinking about? Yes I think we're looking for -- I'll let Dennis elaborate or something else.
But I think we're looking for generally flat-ish on the contract maintenance side for the balance of the year.
Contract-related I think over time certainly I don't know the -- precisely what could happen in the third and fourth quarter.
But over time I think you should look for that to start to really increase as we are able to over time sell more of these new products and services.
Yes I agree with that Robert which is that -- the contract maintenance I'd say flat here as we're look into the second half.
Contract-related maintenance the pipelines are rich.
I mean there's a lot of people looking for somebody who has the ability to provide coverage throughout the country and can provide the same level of quality on an on-demand basis.
So I think you're going to see the contract-related maintenance continue to increase over time.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So when I think about the earnings waterfall chart you gave us in the beginning of the year.
So it sounds like the taxes and share count are a $0.06 $0.07 headwind relative to that and you're taking up guidance a couple of pennies despite that so underlying results a little bit better.
Is that underlying better -- is that just on the rental side? I guess my question is -- I'm not clear if FMS is -- on the contractual side is better or worse than you thought.
I get that the fleet is lower than you thought.
But is the pricing and margin better than you thought and is that offsetting the lower fleet size? Yes -- no the margin is not better than we thought on the contractual side.
I think the benefit is primarily coming from rental and it's also coming from better results on the used vehicle side.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got you.
Fuel was down year-over-year and sequentially.
What kind of impact do you think that had? I think typically you guys benefit a little bit when fuel is going up.
Was that a few cents in the quarter? No.
I think fuel was primarily in line.
Yes yes.
LLC</strong> Okay okay.
And then last couple of things.
The -- when you talk about trailers being lower margin than power units is this -- are we talking about like 100 basis points or is it something more material directionally? No I think if you look at it in terms of margin dollars so what they can contribute to the company you're looking at -- in the case of these particular units in the U.K.
you're looking at 20% to 30% of the contribution you would expect to get from a power unit.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And just last thing the -- so the last time we saw the rental utilization start to get towards peak-ish levels we got excited that well eventually that's going to spill over into the leasing side and it never happened.
Is there any reason to think it's going to happen this time? Or is this just more of the same -- we just don't really get why and there's not more leasing even though rental is so strong? Yes.
Scott that's a good question.
This all gets back to the same theme we've had for the last several years.
It's the uncertain economic environment that kind of seems to have fits and starts right and we're in an environment now -- last year we're in an environment where rental really softened on us unexpectedly.
Now we're seeing it sort of beginning to solidify some which usually is an indication that there's some activity out there.
But until there's more certainty you don't start to see more of that conversion to lease and that's really what I think is holding us back a bit.
We're making good progress on a lot of our sales and marketing initiatives especially here in the U.S.
and we are seeing strong activity.
Like I said U.S.
lease fleet we expect to be up from where we are today by year end and we're seeing good revenue and earnings growth in that product line.
But really the overall water table rising is probably more tied to economic certainty and really trying to get some more of that in the environment.
The next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Robert let me take that question a little bit further of Scott's.
As you talk to customers given the uncertain macro are they asking for shorter-term leases or they just -- it seems like they're mainly sticking with Commercial Rental for the time being? Yes.
I'll pass that to Dennis in a minute.
I think you're -- they are asking for shorter-term leases which we provide.
We have several products that we offer either taking a mid-life equipment from the rental fleet and leasing that or providing them some shorter-term products.
However we are seeing certainly a percentage of the customers that are just saying "You know what? For the short term I'm just going to go ahead and rent and wait it out a bit more." Now as we get the benefits of some of the more -- the new fuel efficiency on the newer units I think that's helping us.
But you're in a position right now where it really hasn't tipped the scales completely to help us with the growth that we're looking for.
And Dennis do you want to elaborate on that? I think that's right.
I think the fuel-efficient spec is helping with the interest.
But again it comes back to economic uncertainty with the willingness to commit longer term.
So we're focused on providing the flexibility that's needed not only in terms of shorter-term lease but even -- and I'll go back to the on-demand product.
If somebody wants to hold onto a vehicle but they're struggling with getting the maintenance quality that they need we offer that product to them.
And oftentimes that's leading to an opportunity then to move into lease.
So again I think if you get a little more economic certainty I think you start to see people look more at the lease product.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And so it sounds like your Commercial Rental duration is longer too.
Is that right? Customers renting for a longer period of time whether over weekends or even a couple of weeks at a time.
Is that the right way to think about it? Well usually Kevin when you get into an environment like this they do because they don't want to lose the vehicle.
When you get into this kind of an environment they know that if they return it it may get rented to somebody else.
So if for no other reason you're seeing that.
But you're right I think intuitively you would expect that in an environment like this where they're substituting it for a vehicle they would otherwise own or lease they'd be renting it for longer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Robert let me kind of follow up there.
Commercial Rental obviously was doing well.
You talked about the high utilization.
Do you worry about building the rental fleet too much and we get into a situation like we saw a year ago where you grew your rental fleet and then all of a sudden the rental demand just hit a cliff and dropped off? Or maybe this year it's a little bit different.
You're just not growing your fleet that fast and just keeping utilization above that 80% level? Yes.
Let me -- I'll hand it over to Dennis.
I'll just tell you that just as a data point we are not looking to grow the fleet from where it is today where otherwise we might have had some movement down.
So what we're doing is we're keeping it steady.
So we're not having a big growth.
And then more importantly where the vehicles are coming from is we're not running out and buying a whole lot of new vehicles.
We're buying some but a lot of it are redeployed.
Yes.
Kevin I would just add that we have been really focused on our asset management because of the concerns to not get into the position that we were in last year.
So as Robert mentioned earlier we've been focused on moving units from the surplus category or lease surplus over into rental and we've been driving that very aggressively.
And the reason for doing that is better asset utilization.
In fact we don't want to be in a position that we're in last year.
So as we mentioned in Robert's opening comments we've grown the rental fleet some from new vehicles but a very small amount.
It's been a lot of movement from the non-revenue generating lease category over into rental for the very reason the very concern that you described.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then 1 last question just going down a different path here.
Do you guys see -- what's the opportunity for you in the energy space with the growth in frac-ing and the oil plays coming from the shales? Could you just maybe talk a little bit about if there is an opportunity for you in energy? Sure.
I'll -- let me hand it over to John because John has one of the initiatives that he has.
We're talking about new initiatives and new products that we're working on.
One of his initiatives has been around really penetrating that oil and gas sector with some of our dedicated offerings.
So I'll let John expand on it.
Yes.
And we've had a pretty successful oil and gas initiative mostly in our Ryder dedicated business where we -- at a high level we kind of combined 3 different things.
We have a management -- we call it LLP Lead Logistics Provider service where we help oil and gas companies manage the flow of materials and products in and out of a field and within a field including repair parts and other products except not bulk oil.
And then we combine that with offering Ryder dedicated services and we've gotten a lot of new sales in this area in our dedicated business for those kinds of customers in those fields.
And then we have a very small transactional trucking business that does flatbed trucking in one of the fields and that's kind of an experiment to see if we can combine some transactional business -- very specialized small transactional business in areas we're very strong in to kind of leverage our strength.
And so those 3 products are really successful right now and driving a little bit of growth for us in Ryder dedicated.
Our next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
I just wanted to quickly clarify something I think Robert said earlier on the Commercial Rental fleet.
We're at roughly I think 38 000 units at the end of the quarter.
The expectations are that we don't grow any further from here or we're just not adding I guess new equipment to that -- to the Commercial Rental fleet? Yes we're at 38 000.
We're going to be right about that at the end of the year.
So we're not going to add a whole lot to the Commercial Rental fleet between now and then.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then aside from maybe a little bit of uncertainty driving customers to use rental a little bit more than the lease product could you also talk to what verticals within rental are feeling stronger or doing a little bit better where you're actually seeing some I guess net positive activity? No I think -- it's interesting.
It's been -- it's really across the board.
We're seeing rental really pick up.
Obviously Superstorm Sandy helped some of that in the last several quarters but it's really been strong utilization across sectors and really across regions in the country and I think that's just generally the combination of some economic activity with a lot of uncertainty.
And it's really driving some of what we're seeing.
Okay.
And then it may potentially be a little bit too early but hours of service the change there is that a potential opportunity for Ryder on the rental or lease side? How are you thinking about that? And have you seen I guess a change in the marketplace since that rule went into effect beginning of July? Yes.
We haven't seen a big impact from that yet.
Certainly in our own dedicated business we didn't see a big impact.
As you know most of our dedicated business is closed-loop and drivers are usually back home each night so not a big impact from those changes.
But no I couldn't say that in our rental fleet we have seen any significant change from that.
Our next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> You touched on the balance sheet earlier.
But based on where it stands today I was wondering if you could talk about the possibility of an acquisition in the near term.
Are you still looking at opportunities today? And also could you just talk about the level of activity in general that you're seeing out there in the M&amp;A market? Yes.
First of all to your first question the level of interest we always -- we're always interested in acquisitions both in the FMS side tuck-in type acquisitions and then on the supply-chain side to really expand our service offerings.
And I would tell you there's still activity.
But as you know historically these things it depends on when an owner is ready to do something.
Usually it gets to transition periods and times when a seller is ready to sell.
So it's hard to predict exactly when those are going to happen.
And I think the important thing to know is that we're out there in the market and we continue to be and we continue to be actively looking for opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And one on D&amp;A [ph].
I know you're benefiting this year from the increase to residual values.
But could you remind us of the expected year-over-year benefit in 2013? And now that we're a couple of quarters into the year has there been any change to that? Yes year-to-date it's probably about $15 million I want to say something like that.
So you could just double that for the full year and so it's $28 million $30 million type of benefit year-over-year.
That will be an item that we'll look to each year.
We adjust our residuals factoring in what current pricing is doing.
So as we've talked about pricing continues to be stable and at historically high levels.
So everything else being equal you'd expect me to have some upside as we go into next year around that item.
Our next question is from Nicholas Bender with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned a step-down in used vehicle inventory by the end of the year.
Is that sort of a linear progression we're going to see in the third and fourth quarter? Or do you just expect to be down to a more typical sort of range on the used vehicle side at the end of the year? Yes -- no I -- it's hard to tell if it was going to be linear or maybe a little in more one quarter or the other.
But I think generally what we're -- the message there is that we are seeing that improve right? We were at levels that were certainly higher than what we'd like to be.
Last quarter we were at 10 000.
Our range is 6 000 to 8 000.
So we've been wholesaling more than we would like to as a result of those elevated levels.
So the good news is as we continue to come down you should see a -- there'll be -- there should be less wholesale activity happening especially as we get into next year.
So I think that's generally a positive trend.
Research Division</strong> Yes understood.
Definitely.
It's certainly the on-demand maintenance offering is an exciting opportunity for you guys.
Is there much capital investment there over the next couple of quarters as you sort of are ramping that in the pilot stage? No.
One of the beauties of this -- of that product is there's really -- the capital investment is very little because you don't -- you're not buying the trucks.
In that type of a situation what we're doing is we are maintaining the vehicles for a customer based on pre-negotiated rates.
But there -- but the work is done and paid by the job.
So a customer comes in we give them an estimate of what it's going to take.
They agree to do the work.
We do the work and then we bill them.
So there is no -- we don't own the vehicle.
We don't lease it to them.
The revenue and dollars per vehicle are much less than a Full Service Lease as you might imagine because there's not the reinvestment in the -- there's not the investment in the vehicle but the return on capital is dramatically higher and it allows us to leverage our network infrastructure and really bring incremental revenue and earnings for the company.
So I want to make sure I'm clear.
We're still in the early stages of this.
But the reason we've mentioned it is because we are getting positive results from it and we're -- we really believe that over the next several years that could begin to drive more -- some of the growth story in -- on the FMS side.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that definitely seems to make sense longer term as you just sort of layer it on the current network.
Just a quick follow-up for John real quick on the SCS side.
I know we talked a lot about auto on the call today.
Can you talk a little bit about trends you're seeing in tech which directionally seems to be a little bit encouraging this quarter and also in industrial that saw the nice jump year-over-year if there's anything specific there if you're having a particular success in [indiscernible].
Yes I'm glad you asked that question because earlier I was asked which segments were we getting the strongest growth in and I neglected to mention industrial.
We have landed a fair number of new projects in industrial.
Some of that -- that's related to oil and gas.
Some of it is related to taking our skills and -- largely from automotive and applying them to large industrial companies who have big plants in the U.S.
and doing those same kind of logistics projects for those customers.
That's helped us a lot this year as well.
So that -- all of that has helped our new sales to grow dramatically.
I mean our new sales have been up almost 40%.
Basically since the last -- since the middle of last year new sales growth has been stronger than it had been historically.
So that's the industrial answer.
And then what was the first part of your question again? Research Division</strong> Just directionally with the revenue in the tech segment? Oh tech.
Yes.
So tech had been down -- I mean the thing holding back tech is if you're not making tablets or you're -- or cell phones you're not doing -- and you're a manufacturer then your growth has been down.
And if you're doing logistics for those companies your growth had been down as well and that's been -- that had been holding us back.
I think we've kind of bottomed out on that.
You can see that in our results and we are landing new customers.
And I think our traditional tech companies their volumes seemed -- hopefully have bottomed out as well.
So we should see little better results in tech going forward.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
This is Ryan Mueller on for Jeff Kauffman.
Just quickly with the guidance of negative $190 million of free cash flow this year when do you expect free cash flow to turn positive? I wanted to know just kind of how much free cash flow you see generating over the next decade compared to the last decade and where you think the level of free cash flow can get to? Yes.
Jeff (sic) [Ryan] you were kind of breaking up a little bit but I think your question is about free cash flow and we're guiding towards a negative $190 million.
And I think your question is when do we expect to be cash flow positive? Without really doing the full plans for the next couple of years I think just intuitively next year -- this was a heavy replacement cycle this year.
We expect some of that to roll into 2014 which as you start having this heavier replacement that negatively impacts free cash flow.
So we would expect improvement next year.
And then I can't tell you whether it'd be positive or not yet.
But certainly as we get into 2015 you would expect to see some positive free cash flow.
Right.
Ryan I think one thing you want to factor in is that there is a big premium on replacement activity.
Trucks cost 40% to 50% more than what the -- the ones we're replacing.
So even though next year may be a lower replacement process we're still going to have a decent amount of growth spend within there because the premium is large.
So that's going to play out here over the next couple of years and that then will impact what our free cash flow really looks like.
But Robert is right we should see less lease replacement next year.
This year the rental spend is fairly low.
It's below maintenance levels.
So we'd expect everything else being equal that that would probably rise over time.
Our next question is from David Campbell with Thompson Davis &amp; Company.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> I just wanted to check on your statement about lease vehicle sales in the last 6 months.
I think I heard that you said it would be down.
But I can't remember down from the first 6 months or down from a year ago? No the -- you're talking about the lease fleet? Davis &amp; Company</strong> Yes -- so the vehicle sales.
The vehicle sales.
Oh used vehicle sales? Davis &amp; Company</strong> Yes.
Used vehicle sales are -- on a net-net are actually slightly positive year-over-year.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> In the last 6 months? Yes.
Oh you might be thinking about inventory.
Our inventory will be down.
That's what we said.
The inventory of used vehicles will be down from where we are today.
So we're at -- today we're at 9 600 units.
We expect that by end of the year to be lower which is a good thing because we're currently above our target range of 6 000 to 8 000.
Davis &amp; Company</strong> Right.
And that means that your vehicle sales will be down in the last 6 months? No vehicle sales results won't be down because we're still selling -- we've got plenty to sell.
So we're selling the inventory that we have and we're -- as that inventory gets closer to our target levels you'll see us do more retail and less wholesale which should be a positive.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez.
Great.
Thank you all.
I appreciate everybody getting on the call.
I think we're a little bit beyond the top of the hour but I wanted to make sure that we answered every call that was out there and -- every question that was out there I'm sorry.
And I wish everybody a great day and look forward to seeing you as we get on the road.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Ryder System Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our third quarter 2013 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
We'll then open up the call for questions.
With that let's turn to an overview of our third quarter results.
Net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.40 for the third quarter of 2013 up from $1.26 in the prior year period.
Third quarter results included $0.06 of nonoperating pension cost.
The prior year period included an $0.11 charge related to nonoperating pension cost and a tax law change.
Excluding these items in both periods comparable earnings per share were $1.46 in the third quarter up from $1.37 in the prior year an improvement of $0.09 or 7%.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up 5%.
Total revenue grew 4%.
These revenue increases reflect new business and higher volumes in supply chain as well as lease revenue growth.
Page 5 includes some additional financials for the third quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 1.6 million shares to 52.2 million.
This reflects the temporary pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program and the share -- and share issuance being higher than planned due to increased employee stock activity.
As of September 30 there were 52.6 million shares outstanding of which 52.2 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
Our third quarter 2013 tax rate was 33.7% and includes the impact of nonoperating pension cost and a pension settlement charge.
Excluding these and other smaller items the comparable tax rate would be 34.1% which is generally in line with our forecast for the quarter.
This rate is below our prior year comparable tax rate of 34.9% reflecting a higher portion of earnings in lower tax jurisdictions this year.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics for the year-to-date period.
Operating revenue was up 4%.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were $3.53 up by 12% from $3.15 in the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital increased to 100 basis points for the trailing 12-month period up from 70 basis points in the prior year.
We now expect this spread to be approximately 100 basis points by year end and in line with our initial plan as we make continued progress towards our longer-term target of 150 basis points.
I'll turn now to Page 7 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions total revenue grew by 2%.
Total FMS revenue included a slight decline in fuel services revenue.
Excluding fuel FMS operating revenue grew 3% driven mainly by growth in Full Service Lease.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 3% due to higher rates on replacement vehicles reflected in the higher cost of new engine technology.
The average number of leased vehicles declined by 1% from the prior year reflecting the nonrenewal of some low-margin trailers in the U.K.
the impact of economic uncertainty and more efficient redeployment of off-lease vehicles.
The lease fleet grew sequentially by 100 units at quarter end reflecting stronger-than-expected sales activity in North America partially offset by fewer trailers in the U.K.
Miles driven per vehicle per day in the U.S.
lease power units increased 2%.
Miles per vehicle have improved over the past 2 years and are now back to normalized levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 as a result of elevated replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down by 1 month sequentially or 4 months since the third quarter of last year.
Contract maintenance revenue declined 3% due to a shift in vehicle mix reflecting more trailers and fewer power units.
Contract-related maintenance increased 12% since the prior year.
A significant portion of this increase is coming from our new on-demand maintenance product which is in place with several large customers.
Commercial Rental revenue was up 3%.
Globally rental demand was down 2% from last year which was slightly better than expectations as increased demand in the U.S.
was more than offset by lower demand in the U.K.
and in Canada.
The average rental fleet decreased 4% from the prior year but was seasonally up 3% from the second quarter.
Rental utilization on power units was 79.7% an improvement of 230 basis points over last year and a very strong absolute rate.
Global pricing on power units was up 4% improving from the 2% growth we realized in the first half as the rate increase we implemented during the second quarter is taking hold.
In used vehicles sales we saw continued solid demand and good pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS earnings were driven by better Commercial Rental performance and strong Full Service Lease results.
Improved lease earnings reflects vehicle residual value benefits and higher rates on the new engine technology.
These improvements were partially offset by lower earnings in the U.K.
which were impacted by weaker demand and one-time charges.
Earnings before taxes in FMS were up 2%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 11.1% unchanged from the prior year.
Performance in the U.K.
negatively impacted earnings before tax percentage by approximately 60 basis points.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on Page 8.
Operating revenue was up 9% and total revenue grew 8%.
These increases are due to new business and higher customer volumes.
We saw nice growth in our industrial high-tech and retailing consumer packaged goods industry groups.
Operating revenue from our dedicated offering increased by 10% reflecting strong sales activity.
New sales from dedicated have come from both private fleet conversions supported by outsourcing trends and from our internal efforts to migrate customers from lease into dedicated where we realize increased returns.
Dedicated achieved double-digit growth despite headwinds from an automotive customer with significantly lower volumes in the year.
Supply chain earnings improved 21% reflecting new business and higher volumes.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 7.3% up 70 basis points from the prior year.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 highlights our year-to-date results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but I'll just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $184.5 million up 14% from $161.9 million in the prior period.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 11.
Year-to-date gross capital expenditures were $1.5 billion that's down $220 million from the prior year.
This decrease primarily reflects lower planned investments in our Commercial Rental fleet.
Around lease capital we continue to see a higher-than-planned percentage of sales being filled with new equipment versus used equipment.
We also realized better-than-expected lease sales in the third quarter.
As a result we've increased our full year capital spending forecast to $2.1 billion above our previous forecast of $1.9 billion.
Obviously the stronger lease sales we've seen recently is encouraging.
Additionally filling a greater percentage of lease contracts with new versus used equipment is also a positive story for us.
It reflects greater receptivity from customers regarding the new engine technology including a desire for fuel savings benefits.
Importantly it also means that we're contracting with customers for longer lease terms on the new equipment.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $337 million.
That's up by $27 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects more units sold versus last year.
Net capital expenditures decreased by $116 million to approximately $1.2 billion.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of $890 million year-to-date up by $122 million from the prior year.
The improvement reflects lower working capital needs lower pension contributions and higher earnings.
We generated almost $1.3 billion of total cash year-to-date up by $31 million reflecting higher operating cash flow in the current period partially offset by a sale-leaseback in the prior year.
Cash payments for capital expenditures decreased by approximately $200 million to $1.5 billion for the year-to-date period.
Company had negative free cash flow of $206 million year-to-date.
Free cash flow did improve by $230 million from the prior year due to lower rental capital expenditures and higher cash from operations.
Our prior forecast projected full year free cash flow to be around negative $190 million.
Given the increase in lease capital due to stronger sales and greater use of new vehicles we now expect full year free cash flow of around negative $350 million.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of almost $4.2 billion increased by $186 million from year-end 2012.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 251% is down from 270% at the end of 2012.
Leverage is within our target range of 225% to 275%.
As we've previously discussed our leverage has been impacted by pension equity charges driven largely by a historically low interest rate environment.
As of September 30 69 percentage points of leverage were due to pension equity charges.
As market interest rates rise our leverage will decline all other factors being equal.
This should provide us with additional balance sheet capacity and flexibility over time.
We calculate the pension equity charge at December 31 of each year.
Given year-to-date asset performance and interest rate moves we have the opportunity for favorable pension impacts for the first time since 2009.
Assuming current discount rates and asset values in our pension plan the year-end 2013 pension equity adjustment would free up around 15 additional percentage points of leverage.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.66 billion.
That's up by $188 million versus year-end 2012.
The equity increase was driven primarily by earnings.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area.
We continue to reduce used vehicle inventories which are at the lowest level in the past 7 quarters.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 8 200 vehicles down from 9 100 units in the same period last year and 1 400 units below second quarter levels.
Used vehicle inventory is nearing our target range of 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles following recently higher levels caused by the lease replacement cycle.
Used vehicle inventory at year end is expected to be around the top end of our target range.
Pricing for used vehicles remains generally stable.
Compared to the third quarter of 2012 proceeds per vehicle sold were down 6% for tractors and up 9% for trucks including heavier-than-normal wholesale volumes due to replacement cycle and the age of the vehicles sold.
From a sequential standpoint used vehicle pricing was unchanged from the second quarter.
As our used vehicle inventory approaches our target range of 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles we expect to reduce the number of vehicles sold through wholesale channels.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by almost 550 units or 10%.
Early terminations of leased vehicles increased by around 400 units but remained well below pre-recessionary levels.
Our average Commercial Rental fleet was down 4% versus the prior year but was seasonally up 3% from the second quarter.
I'll turn now to Page 17 to cover the outlook and the forecast.
In fleet management we saw better third quarter performance in Commercial Rental driven by higher pricing and utilization.
We also continue to see strong Full Service Lease results reflecting higher rates on new engine technology and better residual values.
These factors should continue to benefit the fourth quarter.
As a reminder our midyear forecast projected the global lease fleet to remain flat with the second -- in the second half of the year.
Due to improved sales activity however we saw lease fleet growth during the third quarter of 500 units in spite a headwind of 400 units from the U.K.
trailers and now expect growth to continue at an improved pace in the fourth quarter.
In addition to improved sales results with our traditional lease products we're also very pleased with the strong interest in our new products including on-demand maintenance and natural gas vehicles.
While currently small in size relative to our overall business these products could become an important growth driver by penetrating the historically non-outsourced private fleet and for-hire markets.
We continue to make progress on maintenance initiatives which are designed to address the higher cost of new engine technology.
We also continue to expect maintenance cost benefits driven by the elevated number of lease fleet replacements and a reduction in the lease fleet age.
In the used vehicle area we expect solid demand and generally stable pricing with inventories around the top end of our target range.
We anticipate improved FMS results in North America will continue to be partially offset by challenges in the U.K.
fleet market.
While U.K.
results should improve sequentially from the third quarter we're forecasting them to be below our prior expectations.
We remain confident that over time we'll realize FMS margins at the levels we saw in 2007 and 2008.
Given changes in the environment since then the makeup of the FMS margin may be a bit different and will likely include contributions from growth benefits from fleet replacement improving residual values new products and services and cost management.
In supply chain we expect solid year-over-year growth in both revenue and earnings.
Growth rates in the fourth quarter are expected to be somewhat less than in the third due to some lost business and lower forecasted volumes.
We are particularly encouraged by sales activity in our dedicated services offering but we are seeing outsourcing activity driven by CSA regulations and other secular trends.
We're also benefiting from our internal initiatives to migrate some customers from lease to dedicated.
In the fourth quarter we expect a higher share count to negatively impact earnings by an additional $0.01 above our prior forecast.
This brings the full year impact of a higher share count versus the prior year to $0.12 above our original forecast of $0.06.
Finally a higher tax rate will negatively impact the fourth quarter earnings by $0.02 versus the prior year.
Given these factors we're tightening our full year comparable earnings per share forecast to $4.78 to $4.83 from $4.75 to $4.85.
This is an increase of 8% to 10% from $4.41 in 2012.
Our fourth quarter comparable earnings per share forecast is $1.25 to $1.30 versus the prior year of $1.26.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
At this time I'll turn it over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from David Ross with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the full service leasing business you mentioned higher maintenance costs associated with the new vehicle technology.
Is that factored into pricing? It is David.
We review our pricing on an annual basis and sometimes even more frequently than that.
And as we've seen these price increases we have been updating the pricing on a regular basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in addition to that with the new trucks supposedly being more fuel efficient are you factoring in at least for some accounts the expected reduction in fuel services revenue that you should be getting? Some of that's built in.
But if you remember our fuel is generally a pass-through regardless of price.
There is some margin built in.
But some of that reduction that you may get from the higher fuel efficiency we're looking to probably make that up with new fuel customers we might get through some of the products like on-demand maintenance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then about the FMS segment in terms of the margin.
A lot of things seem to be going right in the business.
The rental utilization is strong.
The fleet age is still coming down.
Residual values are holding.
But we're not seeing as much margin expansion as we might like.
Can you kind of give us any more color there? Yes.
I think the key thing in this quarter was really the U.K.
If you look at -- we highlighted that the U.K.
represented about 60 basis points of margin in the quarter.
So had it not been for the U.K.
if you just looked at North America you'd have a 60-basis-point improvement in earnings before taxes percentage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that a percent of operating revenue or total revenue? Operating revenue as a percent of operating revenue.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question.
The press release mentioned a multiemployer pension plan settlement charge.
Did you guys buy your way out of one in the quarter? Or are there still any lingering multiemployer plans that you're part of? Yes.
We have a small percentage of our employee base that is represented by unions.
And of those there's a percentage of those that have a multiemployer pension.
So as a percent of total employment it's a very small percentage.
However as we look at some of the risk associated with those even though they're small because of the way that the regulations work around that there's a little bit of a disproportionate risk.
So we are looking where it make sense to work our way out of those.
But I don't expect those to be material items just as they come along if we have an opportunity to convert them we will.
Right David.
Yes there's -- that was just an agreement with one union where we were going to convert them to a 401(k) plan moving forward.
There's -- we have probably 10.
I want to say 10-odd total multiemployer plans.
So our strategy is to try to address these as they come up.
Usually you do that when the collective bargaining is up for renewal.
So it's going to happen we would expect I hope over the next few years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you guys aren't part of Central States right? We are.
We have a very small presence in that plan.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Robert I want to make sure I understand your comments on the guidance.
So you're taking down the full year just by a couple of pennies on both ends.
I know you gave a couple of reasons at the end of your prepared remarks.
But I mean would you attribute the adjustment to guidance? I mean is that mostly the higher tax rate and the higher share count? And if you can quantify the issues in the U.K.
kind of what's going on there and how long you expect that to persist I think that would be helpful as well.
Yes I want you to know tax rate is really a year-over-year issue but versus our prior guidance it's really 2 things.
It's $0.01 let's call it a $0.01 for the higher share count and then a couple of cents for U.K.
Because U.K.
even though we expect it to get better than the third quarter it's going to be a little worse than what we had expected it when we gave the guidance midyear.
Research Division</strong> And what is the issue in the U.K.
at this point? And is it something that gets cleaned up by the end of the year? Or do you see that going into 2014? Yes it's primarily a result of soft demand especially around rental versus what we had expected.
The economy in the U.K.
seems to be getting a little bit better since what we had talked at midyear.
But we're still not seeing a lot of that in rental demand.
So that's the biggest headwind that we've got there.
We've got a couple of other issues we're kind of working through.
We -- the third quarter was impacted by a few one-time items.
We had some bad debt in the U.K.
that hurt us.
So obviously we don't expect that to recur.
But certainly we think the rental headwind will continue for certainly into the fourth quarter.
And I think beyond that we expect to be able to either offset it or we'd see some pickup.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just on the leasing business.
I guess I'm curious what you think was different here in the third quarter versus what you've been experiencing through the first part of the year? And kind of seeing that lease writing activity pick up which is something that you haven't talked about recently.
And then also if you can give some color on the cadence of what we should see for the lease fleet.
It sounds like that there were 500 units that were added but 400 units that were lost.
I'm kind of trying to get an idea of how to think about the lease fleets for the balance of the year.
Well yes let me clarify because I may have misspoken on the first part of the presentation.
The lease fleet including all units globally was up 500 units.
That included 400 units of headwind.
So had there not been a headwind from the U.K.
trailers -- had it not been for the U.K.
trailers lease fleet would have been up 900 units.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
So I want to clarify that.
I think I'll hand it over to Dennis to give you a little more color.
But I think in general the challenge has been with -- in this uncertain economic environment is getting some traction on customers feeling good about the economy and feeling strong enough about the economy to be willing to sign up to these longer-term leases.
And we've had some choppiness in that.
And I think as you saw in the first half of the year it was a little bit -- we were a little bit softer than we had expected.
However we did see in the third quarter a pickup of customers willing to sign up.
Now you can -- I can speculate on what some of the reasons are.
I think certainly the fuel efficiency of the new equipment is helping us.
I don't know if at some point customers are just realizing that they've got to make some decisions because some of these vehicles have really aged out and they're looking to make some moves.
But we really are encouraged by what we saw in the third quarter in terms of not just the fleet growth but really sales activity.
So we're expecting that to continue into the fourth quarter and really set us up nicely for 2014.
But I can -- let me hand it over to Dennis for some more color.
Robert I would just add to that that some of the macro trends Todd that are out there such as the new technology the expense associated with it not only the acquisition cost but the maintenance cost.
I think that's leading to customers saying "Hey maybe I want to look at at outsourcing." I think also CSA scores is playing into this.
And finally I would say as you look at the new technology and the training challenges for technicians some customers are saying "Look maybe it's time to look at outsourcing this to a company like Ryder." So I think a lot of those macro trends that we've been talking about for the last several years I think we're starting to see them play out.
There's no substitute for a little bit more visibility in the economy a little more certainty would really help.
But even in spite of that I think we saw some good performance and some good activity in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And just to get the clarification.
So the number of units that we'd expect sequentially in the fourth quarter a couple of hundred on where you ended the third quarter or how should we think about the fleet going into the fourth quarter? We're expecting into the fourth quarter being up another -- even including the U.K.
being up about 1 000 units in the quarter which is one of the reasons why we feel really good about what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's -- the 1 000 is in that number? No no -- you're right 1 000 is in that number correct.
Right because remember the revenue for that usually isn't going to -- you're not really going to see that until you get into the first quarter of 2014.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> John if I could ask your perspective on SCS.
Obviously a strong result this quarter.
I think in the past you've talked about that business being a 6% to 7% margin business.
So the question is how sustainable is this margin that you experienced this quarter? And maybe if you could spend a little bit of time discussing the mix shift within that segment.
I know DCC historically was higher margin than traditional SCS business and it sounds like you're getting some good growth momentum within Dedicated.
So maybe those targets should be rethought going forward? I'm just looking for a little bit of perspective on how we should think about margins in that segment in light of the third quarter result.
Okay.
Well let me start with the growth question.
The -- we did get a little higher growth rate a lot higher growth rate than we expected in the third quarter.
It's going to be higher than what we expect going forward by a little bit too.
We've had -- and that's because -- it's mostly because we had strong growth in volumes at existing accounts.
We've had really strong sales growth across SCS and especially in Ryder Dedicated but not just in Ryder Dedicated.
For close to 2 years now where we had a big step up -- maybe it was about 18 months ago we saw a big increase in new sales.
And so now we're really at a point where if we could just get consistent volume growth at our portfolio of existing customers then we would see growth rates like this or close to it.
But at least in the near term we don't expect to see that.
And so that's why we've been saying 5% 6% growth that kind of thing.
And so that's the growth side.
The margin -- our margin's been consistently improving.
And it's been improving across both Dedicated and SCS the traditional SCS segments.
I don't think that there's a big enough difference in margin between the 2 that you should worry about the mix changing the target total margin.
I think we're getting margin expansion because we're growing and that's helping us amortize our -- and we don't have a huge overhead; we have a little overhead but it's helping us amortize that.
And at the same time we're selling more value-added services.
This has been our strategy now for 5 years is to add capabilities and new services both in Ryder Dedicated and in our verticals that create a little more value for customers.
And so we're seeing -- over time we're seeing projects come on with slightly higher margins.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
That's helpful.
Art on the share buyback and the share dilution discussion here in the fourth quarter it's understood the impact.
But maybe can you help us think about how we should think about dilution going forward as the balance sheet starts to normalize? And presuming at some point in time you don't experience that dilution you're able to at least reengage the anti-dilutive repurchase.
But if and when that time comes in '14 what is the point of view on the share count going forward? Are you content with current levels or slightly higher levels and then keeping it at that level? Or do you have a desire to repurchase stock to drive the share count back below 2013 2012 type levels? I'm just looking for a little bit of perspective on once trends normalize in '13 from a balance sheet perspective.
Right.
Ben I think where we're looking at it right now is we turned it off at the beginning of the year to provide us with some flexibility.
We've been seeing a lot of adverse hits from pension and the like.
So pension is going to go in our favor we're going to de-lever more than we thought at the beginning of the year everything being equal as of right now.
So our plan is to take a look at the anti-dilutive at the beginning of the year and make a call.
Right now I wouldn't see -- I would expect if anything it would be -- if it was turned back on it would be on a prospective basis.
I wouldn't think we're going to do a look-back as to what happened this year.
So that's kind of our view right now.
But it's a process we got to go through over the next few months here.
The next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You may have mentioned this and I might have missed it.
I'm sorry if I did.
Did you give lease miles driven per day? I didn't see that or maybe didn't catch it.
Yes.
The lease miles driven per day is up 2%.
And we did mention that it was up -- it's already at our kind of historical norms.
Not at the peaks yet but certainly historical norms.
Research Division</strong> Remind me what peak was? Hang on while they look at that.
It's a little bit off from where we're at.
3% more than where we're at now.
So another 2% another 2% 3% from where we are right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you got a ways to go okay.
But it looks like directionally we're heading there.
Is that kind of the right way you guys thinking about it? Correct.
Yes.
And at some point I think we're in the range now where you could start to see some -- you would normally see some conversion.
So I'd say that also is an indicator of maybe what we saw in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And looking at this some of this Full Service Lease growth you're talking about some of your optimism.
Is that new customer growth or existing customer expansion? Is there any way to break that down? It's little bit of both really.
I mean we are seeing -- I think Dennis mentioned earlier we're seeing customers coming to us who have currently owned their own fleet and are struggling with some of the items around the maintenance cost associated with the new equipment the new capital investments.
Some of the macro trends that we've been talking about for a while we're really beginning to see a lot more of that.
And then we're seeing some expansion from existing customers but maybe not as strong.
Dennis you want to? I agree.
It's little bit of both Kevin.
But I would say we're encouraged by what's happening with ownership customers where again they're seeing these challenges and looking for some help.
And so I think we're at that point where customers are saying "Look with the new technology being so expensive and the challenges associated with training of the technicians..." -- and as I mentioned earlier the challenges associated with CSA scores being put up on websites they're looking to a Ryder to say "Can you help me?" So what we're really encouraged by is the number of ownership customers that are now looking at that total cost of ownership and regulatory challenges that they face and looking to a Ryder.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just kind of last one here.
From what you guys can tell kind of this increase in Full Service Lease it really wasn't anything say one-time in nature all of a sudden maybe customers trying to get out in front of a potential hours-of-service crunch for instance.
It's just more so that realizing "Hey my equipment has gotten older.
This technology is so expensive.
I've got to do something." It's just maybe the light bulb all of a sudden going on now.
It's nothing as far as you can tell that was onetime that might have triggered a bump? The only thing that happens around this time is the model year change.
So there's always a little bit more activity around that.
But we're seeing activity beyond that.
And even after the model year change occurred we continue to see stronger activity.
Research Division</strong> And then your lease pipeline is it customers really as far as you can tell looking for that new equipment that you talked about versus used equipment? Yes.
You get into the fuel efficiency and the attractiveness of that.
So they're looking at new equipment and the only thing I'd add is that as we're talking to these customers we're also packaging all the value-added services that we can provide.
And I think that's very attractive to them also.
So yes there's a lot of customers out there saying "Look can I save on fuel?" But also they'll come to a Ryder where we look at optimizing their fleet.
And we're seeing a lot of interest in dedicated also.
It's not only the technician challenges but it's also the driver challenges which is why I think you saw such strong growth in dedicated this quarter.
The next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess first could you clarify what the reduction in the average age of the fleet was? I thought I heard you say 1 month.
Yes.
It was.
It was 1 more month.
So we're down 4 months from last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it continues to run about 1 month every quarter? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Should that -- it seems like that should accelerate as the lease fleet expands more rapidly than you were thinking? Or is there any reason why it would not? You're saying it should expand as the lease fleet grows? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sure.
I mean on the edges right? Because you're talking about -- if you add 1 000 units it's on a base of 120 000 vehicles.
So I wouldn't say that's going to have a huge impact on it.
It's more -- the replacement cycle is probably the bigger driver.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
In the dedicated business I thought you might actually get tripped up there.
A lot of the for-hire carriers saw some strains on driver recruiting and actually hours of service within their dedicated.
So can you just walk us through how you were able to avoid that both the driver recruiting challenges and then the hours-of-service challenges? Okay.
Yes driver recruiting is a big challenge for anybody in this business and it's a challenge for us.
We think we're good at it.
We think in general this business has an advantage over say the for-hire truckload because most of it's short haul and your drivers are home every night.
And so -- but it's our business recruiting drivers and it's not our customers' business.
So I think we're seeing some conversions because of that.
Hours of service is really -- was a virtually a nonissue for us we -- mainly because of the short-haul nature of our projects.
So we might have had a couple of accounts where we had to restructure or reengineer the routes and maybe ask for a small rate increase but it really was no significant issue to us.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Robert maybe could you expand a little bit on the type of spending you're doing for on-demand services and maybe where you are in that process? Are you 1/4 of the way through it halfway through it? Just a little color there would be helpful.
I'm sorry you broke up a little bit.
Are you talking about the -- what we're doing around on-demand maintenance? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes the nature of the spending you're doing to get that up and running and maybe where you are in the process.
Are you 1/4 of the way through it halfway through it et cetera? Yes.
It is a product that really leverages all of our infrastructure that we have out there so all the shops and the technicians.
We bring on additional technicians if we get a larger fleet.
But the management and the infrastructure stays the same.
There is some IT spend that we're incurring but it's really not a big number.
You saw some of the -- in the earnings results we talked about some -- a little bit of overhead increase from some IT spending.
There's a small portion of that which is related to on-demand.
But I would say there's not a lot of significant capital or investing.
It's just really trying to leverage the infrastructure that we have but...
I agree.
I just -- Anthony I'd just answer the second part of your question which is where are we at with rolling this out.
And the answer is we're at the beginning.
We've got about 10 customers right now.
We're talking to larger fleets in general.
And we see that expanding through 2014.
There's a lot of interest in getting help with maintenance.
I mean maintenance is kind of the acute pain point that the industry is seeing.
And when you look at our 800 shops and over 5 000 technicians this is something we're good at and something that we're going to offer the industry to help them out with the issues they're seeing.
The next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So just in terms of the CapEx going up.
It sounds like -- so the CapEx goes up this year and you really see the kind of the revenue and earnings benefit in '14.
How do we think about CapEx in '14? Does the higher CapEx this year mean that '14 CapEx can come down year-over-year? Or do you kind of view those independently? If you have any thoughts -- I guess any thoughts on '14 CapEx.
Well Scott if you exclude growth any additional growth in 2014 beyond whatever units we bought this year CapEx would clearly go down next year right because there's a lot fewer replacement.
The unknown I would say is still what growth is -- what additional growth capital we're going to need next year.
What additional units we're going to have.
We want growth.
We want to be able to grow the lease fleet.
So we don't -- I think that's still the unknown.
If there's no growth or very little growth you'll see CapEx go down and really free cash flow improve.
If growth really picks up then you'll have some additional CapEx which should be a good thing because we'll get good returns on that but then delay the free cash flow benefits longer.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay that makes sense.
Maybe within that do you have a view on at this point on rental CapEx in '14 versus '13? No not yet.
We still haven't.
We usually wait a little longer before we make those decisions because as you know rental can be a little more volatile than the rest of our business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just as I think about kind of the earnings outlook for '14 I know you don't have guidance out yet.
But I see expectations that we get to kind of low-teens earnings growth next year then the guidance for fourth quarter is certainly below that.
I wanted to ask do you think we need to see FMS margin improvement to get to kind of low double-digit earnings growth next year? And then what's your confidence that we will see margin improvement at FMS next year? So maybe there's some maintenance offsets to the lower fleet age that we're hearing about this quarter but maybe U.K.
less worse next year? I'm guessing residual values still a positive next year not sure about gains on sale not sure if we can keep up kind of this high utilization on the rental side.
So some moving parts and maybe you can give us your views on that and I guess your level of confidence in margin improvement in FMS next year? Alright.
You started the question we don't want to get into the outlook for 2014 so I don't want to do that.
But I will tell you that yes in order to see continued earnings growth really we need to have earnings growth in FMS.
That is still the largest segment in the company.
And that earnings growth certainly a portion of that is going to come from FSL.
And we've talked about in the past that as the fleet gets younger margins improve.
As I mentioned -- as we mentioned in the press release we're seeing some of the same maintenance cost headwinds that the rest of the industry is seeing.
However we have over the last 1.5 years 2 years have shown that we can manage those costs through our maintenance initiatives and through other parts of the business whether it's controlling overheads or other things that we do.
I expect that to continue.
And I expect us though to also see contributions from other things such as residual values continue to hold strong and depreciation benefit from that should continue into next year.
We don't -- we haven't quantified that yet but that should be a benefit.
So those are pluses.
And then continued strength in our transactional businesses.
So you combine that with what we're seeing in supply chain and the good sales and hopefully improved volumes -- continue to improve volumes into next year those should all be positive.
So that's without looking at 2014 that's sort of some of the puts and takes that we see.
But still some time to get there and we still got a lot to learn as we make it through the fourth quarter.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
I want to drill down a little bit on U.K.
not to take away from the forward growth but I just want to understand it.
If I take your comments and that's implying the 60 basis points is about $4.5 million of pretax profit that you were out.
Can you help me understand how to think about what's temporary and what's a longer-term battle? For instance you said you had the higher bad debts expense.
You said you were out about 400 trailer rentals.
How much of the $4.5 million would those have accounted for versus say the operating market just being at a lower profit level? I would -- very simplistically I'd tell you a little less than half is one-timers and the rest is more challenges around rental and some of these other things we're doing.
Okay.
And I guess there was an interesting release you guys had on a small company in Pennsylvania Macaroni in early October where they had leased vehicles from you.
They had their own private fleet and now they're taking a lot of that private fleet and outsourcing it with this natural gas conversion option.
Can you talk a little -- is that the new model? And can you give us an idea of kind of RFP activity this year if there's a way to compare it versus 1 year ago? When you're talking about more of these companies kind of stepping over the threshold is this kind of what you're talking about? Yes.
And Dennis alluded to it earlier.
We are seeing more customers that are in ownership looking at leasing.
Whether it's full service leasing or it's some of these natural gas vehicles or even some of the on-demand as ways to help -- to have Ryder help them with maintenance cost or the financing of equipment that they have or introducing them to natural gas vehicles.
So there's the secular trends that I think are really helping some of this.
And then I think there's some of the things that Dennis and his team are doing around new products and services that are really opening up the portfolio of ways that companies can do business with us and making it easier for them to do business.
That was a small example though.
But an important one of a customer who was in ownership and really found a solution that Ryder could really help them be more efficient in their business.
And I think that is a theme that we're seeing more and more of this year.
Okay.
And the RFP activity I mean there's no backlog number that we could really measure.
But how -- help us understand how these RFPs are different than they were 1 year ago kind of the magnitude.
I don't -- we don't talk a lot about the sales pipeline.
But I would tell you just a couple of things.
One is that we probably are seeing more large deals this year than last year.
So larger fleets who had historically maybe been in ownership and been doing maintenance different ways are -- seem to be more interested in doing business with Ryder whether it's Full Service Lease or under some type of maintenance agreement.
And we are seeing more customers or more prospects that are coming from ownership versus what we saw a year ago where it was mostly trading of full service lease customers among competitors.
The next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Just wanted to clarify one thing.
The increase in CapEx going to $2.1 billion is all of that increase due to this pickup within lease spend? Or is there anything else in that number? Yes Matt.
Right Matt the increase in CapEx is associated with the lease growth that we were talking about in the second half.
Okay.
Can you remind us how much U.K.
contributes to FMS roughly? Yes Matt.
It's about 10% of the operating revenue for the business.
Okay.
And then I guess off of -- some of Robert's comments to the last question.
It sounds like maybe half of that 60 basis points of headwind was onetime-ish.
Things still relatively weak within the U.K.
during fourth quarter.
Would it be fair to assume that we see a little bit less headwind in terms of the margin during fourth quarter? Or is it potentially equal to that 60 bps that we saw in third quarter? Well it would be less just because we highlighted about half of that was associated with one-time items.
So we're not expecting that to continue.
So you should see less impact from the U.K.
in the fourth quarter.
The next question is from Nick Bender with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Could you guys kind of just maybe this is the best question for Dennis walk us through a little bit in terms of the rental market? How demand sort of broadly feels there? Obviously this is the second straight quarter of solid results.
Is it more managing the rental fleet in sort of a consistent market? Or are there some more sort of one-off discrete variables that are helping the rental market? Well first from a demand point of view Nick as we stated earlier the U.S.
was up year-over-year.
The U.K.
and Canada were down but better than our expectations.
And yes from an asset management and utilization point of view this is something we've been really focused on.
As you know a little over 1 year ago we came out with a warning when we had too much fleet.
And so we've really been focused on our asset management capability and keeping utilization high.
And that's helping us quite a bit.
So we're going to continue to drive utilization in those high-70s in that range is our target.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing strength in any discrete areas? Or is it just -- domestically speaking of course.
Or is it just broadly a little healthier market than obviously we were seeing this time last year? It's broad strength.
I can't point to any particular area where we're seeing a lot of pickup.
So just in general it's been strong.
And we see that continuing here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Moving to the SCS side of the equation.
Certainly some -- a nice rebound here for a couple of quarters in some of these verticals.
How can we be thinking moving forward about the growth rates particularly in high tech and in retail which obviously again this time last year were comping negatively and certainly seem to be enjoying a rebound.
John you spoke to sort of broad customer wins but can we look for this kind of growth moving into the back half of the year and then the beginning half of next year? Yes.
I mean overall over a long period of time we're going to see good growth in all those verticals you mentioned.
And we've had really good sales performance especially in CPG.
And we don't break that out in our public reporting.
We combine it with retail but that's been a real bright spot.
We're looking to -- we're doing some things to build a stronger retail vertical.
And so we expect over time to get more sales there and to see good growth there.
And we've had good performance in new sales and high tech.
On any given quarter any given -- you're starting to divide the business up into finer and finer segments.
And any given customer can have a decline like we're seeing right now in automotive one customer pulling the vertical down in terms of year-over-year growth rates.
But I think the whole point of our strategy is building value and competitive advantage by specializing in verticals.
And we're seeing that result in good sales across all the verticals.
So over a long period of time I would expect to see them all grow well.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I will just finish with one more for Robert.
As far as we think about the disposition of used equipment.
Obviously that number came down like you said towards the top end of sort of your long-term target range.
Do you expect it to move down into the middle of that range as you work through any other equipment? Or we can expect to see used vehicle sales sort of trending in a similar line? And then conversely with a reduction of wholesale activity how much better do you expect pricing to feel as we move forward? Well yes.
The answer to your question yes we expect to get in the range certainly to start moving into the range here in the fourth quarter.
And then as we get into next year really bringing those inventories down even further.
Because as we get out of the lease replacement cycle there'll just be fewer units to be sold.
And your point on wholesale is exactly right.
We will -- as we approach this range we're going to start wholesaling fewer units and retailing more units.
So that should help us on the sales proceeds side which is good for us in many ways.
Not only is it good for our current periods but it's also good for the residual value calculations that we make on our lease trucks.
So that's all good.
There's nothing wrong with having -- there's nothing bad about having lower inventories.
And that's something that we're really happy that our team has kind of worked through I think very well this year.
And we're now approaching those target ranges on inventory.
And again we should -- we're working now to really reduce the amount of wholesaling we're doing focus more on retail.
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I know we're running a little short on time just a couple of quick ones.
First you mentioned some loss in business in SCS in the prepared remarks.
Could you provide a little bit more color on what drove that and the impact it could have as we think about growth in SCS going forward? Yes.
I mean lost business.
You expect to have a certain percent of loss -- amount of lost business every year.
You obviously work hard to minimize that.
I think what happened -- what we refer to here is that there was a little kind of almost bunching of loss business here where there's a few big projects coming -- not huge projects but largish projects coming off in the fourth quarter that'll -- it's still we still -- this shouldn't cause the growth rate to be below what we've been seeing over the long term.
It's just below what we saw in Q3.
So it's not a huge impact.
And it's certainly nothing -- I mean the customers we're talking about are generally low-margin customers that were lost on price.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That makes sense.
And maybe John if you could talk about the typical length of a contract you're signing up in SCS today? And looking over the next few years are there any major renewals you see that are coming up? Average length -- I mean the typical length is 3 years.
There are some that are shorter and there are a few that are longer.
So the average is probably a little less than 3 years.
So every year 1/3 of our business -- on average 1/3 of our business comes up.
That's a lot of business and we're always working very very hard to renew those.
It's a huge priority for our team every year.
I mean it kind of feels like every year there's more business than normal coming up.
But it's just it's probably just about 1/3 every year.
And we work very hard to retain that.
I don't see any big difference next year.
It's probably about the average.
Our final question today is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Robert obviously you've been with the company for a while.
But as you're settling into the CEO seat I wanted to ask you.
Presumably the lens at which you're looking at the company now has changed.
And I'm wondering are there any areas within the organization that you feel like are not really critical to the organization or are not necessarily core? I know there's been some questions around other businesses before but I just wanted to sort of follow-up and see if your perspective has changed at all over the last quarter or 2? No Thomas.
I've been around a long time.
And I remember when I first got to this company that we had a lot of different businesses.
And many of them were obviously not core to the businesses that we have today.
And a lot of work went into really rationalizing the businesses and getting us to where we are.
So as we develop strategies going forward and we look to how we're going to grow the business you've heard us talk about really focusing on the 2 businesses that we're on and focusing on penetrating the non-outsourced portions of the business whether it's on the fleet side or the supply chain side.
And doing that with new products and services but all within the same businesses that we have.
That I think is the right formula for Ryder for now is that we have big markets that we can go after in both segments and we have opportunities to really get after them not only because of the secular trends that we're seeing but because some of the new products and services that we know we can offer.
And we think that those things are going to drive growth.
So as I sit here today I feel really good about the businesses that we're in and the services that we offer and the synergies also that exist between them especially as you look at what's going on with our fleet management Full Service Lease customers that are migrating to dedicated.
And I really think that this portfolio of businesses can really provide some exciting growth for us.
Research Division</strong> If I can just add one more follow-up on the FMS and in particular the U.K.
side of the operation.
As you think about that business in the longer term just given that Europe is basically an ex-growth or a very slow growth type of environment.
How core do you feel like that is to the Ryder franchise and network? That business -- we've been in the U.K.
now for about 40 50 years I believe.
And we have developed really the same type of market leadership in the U.K.
in our business as we have in North America.
We also have a very strong management team out there that really does a great job of running the business.
So I -- even though if you look across -- synergies across continents are not as obvious certainly a lot of the knowledge base that is really critical here in the U.S.
around truck maintenance and around some of the operations whether it's rental or how we dispose the vehicles is shared.
And really we do leverage across the operation.
And that really helps us to drive efficiencies in the business.
So I do see that continuing.
And I see that really continuing to be an important part of FMS and an important part of Ryder.
They're in a bit of a soft patch over the last couple of quarters but they've been good contributors to the earnings of the company.
And I expect them to continue to be over the next over the years to come.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we're just past the top of the hour.
So I want to thank all of you for being on the call.
And look forward to speaking with you between now and the next call and certainly on the next one.
So everybody have a safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's fourth quarter 2013 earnings and 2014 forecast conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions is on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions is unable to join us today due to a schedule conflict.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our fourth quarter 2013 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook and forecast for 2014.
We'll then open up the call for questions.
With that let's turn to an overview of our fourth quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.35 in the fourth quarter 2013 up from $1.26 in the prior year.
This reflects an improvement of $0.09 or 7%.
Comparable earnings per share exclude nonoperating pension cost in both years and a charge for Superstorm Sandy losses in the prior year.
We beat our fourth quarter forecast of $1.25 to $1.30 by $0.05 to $0.10.
Operationally our out-performance was driven by better-than-expected used vehicle sales and Full Service Lease results.
Additionally a lower tax rate contributed $0.03 to the beat.
These items were partially offset by increased overheads and a higher share count.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up by 4% to a record $1.34 billion.
Revenue growth reflects new business and higher volumes in supply chain lease revenue growth and higher Commercial Rental revenue.
Page 5 includes some additional financials for our fourth quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 1.9 million shares to 52.7 million.
This reflects the temporary pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program during 2013 and the share issuance being higher than planned due to increased employee stock activity.
As of December 31 there were 53.3 million shares outstanding of which 52.7 million are included in the diluted share calculation.
Our fourth quarter 2013 tax rate was 32.5% and includes the impact of nonoperating and other pension cost.
Excluding these and other smaller items the comparable tax rate would be 33.3% which is below the prior year's comparable tax rate of 33.7%.
Page 6 highlights key financials statistics on a full year basis.
We realized record results in both operating revenue and EPS.
Operating revenue was up by 4% to $5.3 billion.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were $4.88 up 11% from $4.41 in 2012.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital increased to 100 basis points up from 80 basis points in the prior year.
I'll turn now to Page 7 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions' operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 3% mainly driven by growth in Full Service Lease as well as Commercial Rental.
Full Service Lease revenue grew 3% due to a higher rate on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology.
The lease fleet grew sequentially by 2 100 vehicles in the quarter.
This is above our prior expectations reflecting stronger-than-anticipated sales to new customers and competitive wins in North America.
On a full year basis the lease fleet increased by 500 units including the planned reduction of 1 200 low-margin trailers in the U.K.
Excluding the impact of the U.K.
trailers the lease fleet grew by 1 700 units for the full year.
We've added a schedule to the appendix on Page 27 so that you can track the changes in our lease fleet net of the planned U.K.
trailer de-fleeting.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on the U.S.
lease power units increased 1%.
Miles per vehicle have improved over the past 2 years and are back to normalized levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 as a result of elevated replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down by 1 month sequentially or 4 months for the full year.
Contract maintenance revenue declined 8% mainly due to a shift in vehicle mix reflecting more trailers and fewer power units.
Contract-related maintenance increased 1% since the prior year.
Year-over-year growth was mostly offset by activity related to Superstorm Sandy that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Commercial Rental revenue grew 6%.
Globally rental demand was up slightly from last year as increase in demand in the U.S.
was mostly offset by lower demand in the U.K.
and Canada.
The average rental fleet decreased 1% from the prior year but was unchanged from the third quarter.
Rental utilization on power units was 78.9 an improvement of 70 basis points over last year and a very strong absolute rate for the fourth quarter.
Global pricing on power units continues to improve and was up 4% for the quarter.
In used vehicle sales we saw continued solid demand and good pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS earnings were driven by improved used vehicle results stronger Commercial Rental performance and better Full Service Lease results.
Improved lease earnings reflects vehicle residual value benefits and higher rate on the new engine technology.
These improvements were somewhat offset by lower earnings in Canada and the U.K.
Conditions in the U.K.
have improved versus the third quarter but remain challenging.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased 14%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 11.2% up 110 basis points from the prior year.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on Page 8.
Operating revenue grew by 8% due to new business and higher customer volumes.
We saw nice growth in our industrial high-tech and retailing consumer packaged goods industry groups.
Operating revenue from our dedicated services increased 7% reflecting continued positive sales activity.
New sales in dedicated have come from both private fleet conversions supported by outsourcing trends and from our internal efforts to migrate customers from lease and to dedicate it where we'll realize increased returns.
Supply Chain Solutions earnings before tax improved 6% reflecting new business and higher volumes partially offset by $1 million in legal claims.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 6.3% unchanged from the prior year.
Please note that Supply Chain Solutions segment earnings reflects a slight revision to the calculation of intercompany profits on vehicles allocated to SCS.
Slide 32 provides a reconciliation by quarter for this change which impacts all quarters in 2013.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 highlights our full year results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but I'll just highlight the bottom line results.
We saw double-digit earnings growth in both segments.
Comparable full year earnings from continuing operations were $256.6 million up 13% from the prior period.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 11.
Full year gross capital expenditures were almost $2.2 billion that's up slightly from the prior year.
For the year higher lease spending was offset by lower planned investments in our Commercial Rental fleet.
Around lease capital we again realized better-than-expected lease sales in the fourth quarter.
We also continued to see a higher-than-planned percentage of sales being filled with new versus used equipment.
As a result our full year capital spending came in somewhat above our prior forecast of $2.1 billion.
Obviously the stronger lease sales in the second half of 2013 is encouraging.
Additionally filling a greater percentage of lease contracts with new versus used equipment is a positive story for us.
This activity reflects greater receptivity from customers regarding the new engine technology including a desire for fuel savings benefits.
Increased new equipment activity also means that we're contracting with customers for longer lease terms.
The average remaining lease term for U.S.
power units has increased by 9 months in the last 2 years.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue-earning equipment of around $450 million that's up by $39 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects more units sold versus last year.
Net capital expenditures increased by $114 million to just over $1.7 billion.
The growth in net CapEx reflects a prior year sale-leaseback transaction.
Turning to the next page.
We generated cash from operating activities of $1.2 billion for 2013 it's up by 8% or $89 million from the prior year.
The improvement reflects higher earnings and lower working capital needs.
We generated $1.75 billion of total cash during the year in line with the prior year.
This reflects higher operating cash flow and increased vehicle sales proceeds in 2013 offset by sale-leaseback transaction in the prior year.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased slightly at $2.1 billion for the year.
The company had negative free cash flow of $386 million in 2013 that's flat with the prior year.
This was a bit below our prior forecast reflecting the increase in lease capital due to stronger sales and greater use of new vehicles.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of almost $4.3 billion increased by $315 million from year-end 2012.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 226% down from 270% at the end of 2012.
Leverage is now at the low end of our target range of 225% to 275%.
We calculate the pension equity charge at December 31 of each year.
As expected due to an increase in the discount rate and better asset performance during 2013 we had a favorable pension impact for the first time in 4 years which freed up about 20 percentage points of leverage.
The global discount rate has increased 75 basis points to 4.9% and we are in 13% on total pension assets this year.
At the end of the year our global plans are 87% funded the highest in 6 years.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.9 billion up by around $430 million versus year-end 2012.
The equity increase was driven primarily by favorable impact from pension retained earnings and stock issuances.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area.
We continue to reduce used vehicle inventories which are at the lowest level in the past 2 years.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 7 900 vehicles down from 9 200 units in the prior year and 300 units below the third quarter.
As expected used vehicle inventory is back to our typical target range of 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles.
This follows recently higher levels caused by the lease replacement cycle.
Pricing for used vehicles remained strong.
Compared with the fourth quarter of 2012 proceeds from vehicles sold were down 1% for tractors and up 2% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 2% in the quarter truck pricing was higher sequentially in North America however was down 3% globally due to some unusual sales activity in Europe in the fourth quarter.
With used vehicle inventories back to target levels we're reducing wholesale sales activity which benefits pricing.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original term decreased versus last year by around 1 100 units or 14%.
Early termination of leased vehicles was largely in line with 2012 and remained well below pre-recessionary levels.
Our average Commercial Rental fleet was down by 1% versus the prior year and was unchanged from the third quarter.
I'll turn now to Page 17 and cover our outlook for 2014.
Pages 17 and 18 highlight some of the key assumptions in the development of our 2014 earnings forecast.
Our 2014 plan anticipates moderate growth for the overall economy.
We're forecasting interest rates on new financing to be somewhat higher.
Ryder's average financing rate will decline modestly however as we replace higher-rate maturing debt with new financing at lower rates.
In Fleet Management we're expecting growth in both our Full Service Lease and Commercial Rental product lines.
In lease the number of contracts expiring will return to a normalized level following 2 years of higher-than-average replacement activity.
The decline in replacement capital spend is expected to be partially offset by higher growth capital spending driven by improved new sales.
Recent replacement and new growth in our lease fleet will lead to further declines in the average age.
A younger lease fleet combined with execution on maintenance cost initiatives will more than offset the higher maintenance costs on newer engine technology leading to improve maintenance cost performance.
In rental we're forecasting improved rental results due to higher pricing and demand.
Rental capital spending will be up from last year primarily due to fleet refreshment as well as plans for modest increases in the average fleet size.
The strong used vehicle pricing results that we realized in 2013 will benefit depreciation rates this year as these results are blended into our vehicle residual value calculation.
Due to the timing of out-servicing activity used vehicle inventories are expected to increase during the first quarter.
Inventories will then decline from the remainder of the year due to fewer lease replacements in 2014 resulting in lower inventory levels by year end.
With lower year-over-year used vehicle inventories we expect to sell fewer used trucks this year.
This headwind will be partially offset by better pricing as we increase our focus on retail sales.
Overall we expect higher FMS earnings due to growth in Full Service Lease better performance in Commercial Rental increased contributions from our new on-demand maintenance offering improved maintenance cost performance and depreciation changes.
These improvements will be partially offset by lower used vehicle volumes and higher strategic investments and overheads.
Turning to Page 18.
In Supply Chain we expect revenue growth due to both strong new sales and improved retention.
We're also expecting a modest increase in customer volumes.
Continued improvement in SCS earnings will be driven by both new business and higher volumes.
In terms of corporate actions in December we announced the reinstatement our anti-dilutive share repurchase program we're leveraged now at the low end of our target range.
We'll begin repurchasing shares under the program.
Despite this activity EPS for 2014 will continue to be negatively impacted by shares issued in 2013.
We're also forecasting an EPS headwind due to a higher tax rate resulting from increased earnings in higher tax jurisdictions.
Finally we've planned a $100 million sale-leaseback transaction this year to finance a portion of our vehicle capital expenditures.
Page 19 provides a summary of some of the key financials statistics for our 2014 forecast.
Based on the assumptions I just outlined we're expecting another record year for operating revenue and comparable earnings per share in 2014.
We expect revenue growth to accelerate in 2014 with operating revenue expected to increase 6% up from 4% growth in the prior year.
Comparable earnings from continuing operations are forecast to increase by 10% to 13% showing nice operating leverage on our revenue growth.
Comparable earnings per share are expected to grow 9% to 12% to the range of $5.30 to $5.45 in 2014 as compared to $4.88 in the prior year.
Our average diluted share count is forecast to increase by 900 000 shares to 53 million shares reflecting 2013 share issuance.
We project 2014 comparable tax rate of 35.7% up a full percent from the prior year's rate of 34.7%.
Excluding the impact of the higher tax rate pre-tax earnings are up strongly by 15% to 18%.
The spread between return on capital and cost of capital is forecast to narrow 10 basis points to 90 basis points this year reflecting increased growth capital and lower leverage.
If the leverage were unchanged from 2013 the return on capital spread would be consistent with 2013 at 100 basis points.
The next page outlines our revenue expectations by business segment.
In Fleet Management operating revenue is expected to increase 6%.
Full Service Lease revenue is forecast to grow by 5% which is the highest organic growth rate since 2007.
This is driven by higher fleet count due to stronger new sales higher lease rates reflecting increased vehicle investment costs and CPI rate increases.
We're forecasting a 7% increase in rental revenue.
Rental growth is due to higher pricing and demand on a modestly larger fleet with stable utilization.
Supply chain operating revenue is expected to grow by 5% driven mainly by new business and higher retention.
Page 21 provides a chart outlining the key changes in our comparable earnings per share forecast from 2013 to 2014.
We plan to continue making strategic investments to drive long-term growth in our business.
These investments fall mainly into the areas of sales and marketing and customer-facing technology.
Strategic investments and other overheads are expected to cost between $0.16 and $0.20 this year.
Higher compensation expense is expected to lower earnings by about $0.12 per share this year primarily reflecting the cost of merit increases and higher medical cost partially offset by lower planned bonus expense.
While we will be buying back shares issued since December 1 2013 the shares issued earlier last year will reduce earnings per share by $0.09 this year.
A higher tax rate is also expected to cost $0.08 per share.
In FMS new products such as on-demand maintenance are expected to increase earnings per share by $0.11.
We've been pleased by the favorable customer receptivity for our on-demand maintenance offering.
We expect this business to continue to grow in 2014 and beyond by penetrating the private fleet in 4 higher markets in a new way.
Commercial Rental is expected to increase earnings per share by between $0.11 and $0.13 based on solid recent trends and a favorable outlook for rental pricing and demand.
In FMS the net impact of residual values which lowers depreciation expense partially offset by lower gains on sale due to fewer units sold is expected to benefit earnings per share by $0.16 to $0.18 this year.
As a reminder our annual update of residual values reflects a rolling multi-year average of used vehicle pricing levels which now includes the stronger pricing we realized on 2013 sales.
In supply chain new sales and improved retention will lead to revenue growth in all industry groups except automotive.
We also expect continued growth in our dedicated services.
Revenue growth combined with some margin improvement and supply chain is projected to increase earnings per share by $0.24 to $0.27.
The largest driver of 2014 earnings per share improvement is better performance and growth from our contractual FMS product lines.
Fleet growth and improved maintenance performance are expected to benefit earnings per share by between $0.29 and $0.33.
Following strong lease fleet growth in the second half of 2013 recent strong sales and improved sales outlook this year should drive additional fleet growth.
A lower fleet age and continued progress on maintenance cost initiatives is also expected to contribute to higher FMS earnings.
In total these items are expected to result in comparable earnings per share of $5.30 to $5.45 in 2013.
I'll turn it over to Art now to cover capital spending and cash flow.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 22.
We're forecasting total gross capital spending of $2.16 billion for the year down slightly from last year.
A reduction in lease capital will be offset by higher spending in rental and operating property.
Higher operating property spending includes around $40 million for the purchase of a currently leased administrative facility.
Lease capital spending is forecast to be down by almost $125 million as replacement activity returns to a more normalized level this year.
The lower replacement requirements are expected to be partly offset by higher growth-related lease spending which is forecast to be $580 million.
This includes $430 million of higher purchase cost per vehicle due to inflation and EPA-mandated emission standard requirements and $150 million due to fleet growth.
We plan to spend $330 million on rental vehicles primarily to refresh the fleet as well as for 3% growth in the average fleet size.
The outlook for rental demand and pricing remains favorable based on results through January.
Proceeds from sales of revenue-earning equipment are forecast to be relatively flat with the prior year.
With used vehicle inventory levels back in our target range increased retail sales will benefit pricing.
We are also planning a $100 million sale-leaseback transaction this year.
As a result net capital expenditures are forecast at $1.6 billion this represents a decrease of almost $130 million from 2013.
Free cash flow is forecast to improve to a negative $300 million this year.
Please note that free cash flow would be nicely positive excluding growth capital spending in lease.
We expect total obligations to equity will increase modestly to 230% at year end and will still be near the low end of our target range of 225% to 275%.
This estimate does not assume any change in pension-funded status.
Also the impact of restarting the anti-dilutive share repurchase plan increases leverage by 14 percentage points for the year.
We talked in recent years about the impact that higher growth capital spending has on the business.
This page highlights the amount of growth capital spending we've had by year driven from both fleet growth and higher vehicle investment cost per unit and its impact on our free cash flow.
Higher vehicle investment costs are good for the business over time in a few ways: it will drive more companies to consider outsourcing to Ryder; and also increases our revenue and earnings on each new vehicle deployed in the fleet.
However in the near term it means more upfront cash outlay to purchase vehicles.
In 2010 and 2011 growth capital was focused primarily on the rental fleet as we started to move past the recession and experience very strong rental demand.
Starting in 2012 the largest part of our growth capital spend is for contracted lease units and this amount has been steadily increasing.
The box on the right-hand side of the page highlights 2014 growth spending in lease.
A greater number of lease vehicles will require $150 million of capital while higher per unit costs will require $430 million.
Both our earnings and free cash flow will benefit from this contracted growth over the typical 5 to 7 year life of these vehicles.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to Robert to recap our EPS forecast.
Thanks Art.
Turning to Page 24.
We're forecasting comparable pre-tax earnings to be up 11% to 14%.
With negative impacts from higher tax rate and share count we're expecting earnings per share to grow 9% to 12% to a range of $5.30 to $5.45 versus a comparable $4.88 in the prior year.
We're also providing a first quarter earnings per share forecast of $0.83 to $0.88 versus the comparable prior year EPS of $0.81.
The percent of the full year earnings per share forecast for the first quarter is in line with that realized in recent years.
First quarter EPS is also being impacted by a greater year-over-year change in the share count and the higher tax rate which together impact Q1 EPS by $0.04.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
We had a lot of material to cover today with both our fourth quarter results and 2014 outlook.
As a result I'd ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up each.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to get back in the queue and we'll take as many calls as we can.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from David Ross with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Robert with the share buyback it's good to have the anti-dilutive program back but when would discretionary repurchases again be considered to lower the share count? And or anything -- is there anything authorized at this moment? No.
What we turned back on is the anti-dilutive component of it.
I think we're still a bit away from looking at a discretionary program.
We're on the low end of our target.
But as you know we'd like to keep a little bit of a dry powder in case of acquisitions.
And also making sure that we stay in the range that we need for our debt rating.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the contract maintenance side that was down 8% year-over-year is that where the new on-demand maintenance product is? And what was kind of driving that? Was that a tough Sandy comp or something else? Well first of all the on-demand is not in that category it's in contract-related which was up 1%.
And it would have been up much more had it not been that last fourth quarter we had a lot of activity in contract-related associated with Superstorm Sandy as a lot of customer vehicles needed to be fixed up and were damaged in the storm and that's where it flowed through.
We continue to see strong activity in on-demand maintenance.
On contract maintenance what it is is a change in the mix of the fleet there.
We have more trailers and fewer power units.
And that's just the mix of the customers that are in there right now.
But we're expecting that to turnaround in 2014.
The next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could maybe talk about what's buried in the increase in overhead spending? And maybe tie that in with what the components of the strategic spending are.
Both of those seem to be on the rise and I'm suspecting for good reason.
But maybe a little bit of color there would be helpful.
Anthony yes.
For the quarter the increase in SG&amp;A costs really are tied to compensation-related expense spending some incentive compensation as well as increased sales and marketing costs on a year-over-year basis.
As you look forward into 2014 a good chunk of our strategic spend is also tied into increased spending around sales and marketing initiatives as well as investments and costs associated with customer-facing technology.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that -- should that -- I don't want to get ahead of you but should that continue into 2015? Or should that moderate as you put in place the additional resources? I think it was around -- we would expect to continue to make investments in technology.
That's not going to change.
I mean the level of our sales and marketing we would hope that we would continue to invest in that when we get the proper pull-through if you will.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you remind us or give us an update on when you would expect the Full Service Lease fleet age to normalize? I know it's tough to quantify sometimes but given the increased level of sales engagement and what you saw in the fourth quarter in terms of the reduction is there a forecast that you're comfortable with in terms of when we should expect that fleet age to normalize? Yes.
We saw another month decline in the fleet age right around mid-40s -- I think 45 46 now in terms of average age.
So I would expect next year it to continue to come down at about that clip.
The clip for this year was 4 months so I think for next year we're were looking at another 4 to 5 months.
I would expect it to stabilize around that 40 41 42 months because if you think about it 7 year holding period if it was perfectly matched you would have a 42 month 3.5 year average age.
So I think in that low 40s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we had always thought about normalizing that lease fleet age as being important to get back to previous peak margins.
Should we be thinking about it similarly then? I know you're not going to provide a forecast for 2015 and I'm not expecting you to.
But what are some puts and takes as we think to '15 and the lease fleet age does normalize what would prevent you from getting back to those historic peak margins all things being equal? Yes.
I think you're going to see -- we're expecting continued progress towards those peak margins in 2014 that's built in here.
And some good progress I'd say in 2014.
I think beyond that you're going to see growth really being a larger component of closing the final gap there; and some of the new products and services that we're looking at; continued benefits on the depreciation side because this used vehicles' sales continued to be strong.
If they continued strong in 2014 we would expect to get another benefit on the depreciation end as we go into 2015.
So all of those items will contribute.
But I really do expect this year we're going to make some continued progress.
We did close the year 2013 at 10% earnings before taxes percentage for FMS which I think is an important milestone.
So I expect again that was a 70 basis points move.
I'd expect better than that in 2014.
Right right.
We're still a couple of hundred basis points on the low end of our target.
And we've been posting 70 80 basis point improvement in the last -- about 3 years.
So in that range you'll be getting close by '15.
The next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So I just want to follow-up on the guidance for leasing revenue growth this year.
So the fleet already before additional growth it's already up about 1% and you guys have been getting I don't know it feels like pricing in that 3% to 4% range.
So that kind of gets you to the 5%.
Are you assuming any incremental leasing growth? Or am I missing something in terms of some of these moving parts? Because it feels like it could be better than the 5%.
But I want to get your take.
Yes.
Look Scott.
We built in -- the lease fleet growth really turnaround in the middle of this year right? So we had a strong third quarter.
As you saw now we had a strong fourth quarter not only in fleet growth but strong sales activity.
So we have worked that into next year.
The balance of the year there's still an opportunity we could do better obviously.
But based on where we are now what we're seeing in the economy that's what we've got built in there.
It could be that -- he said 4% pricing he may have been thinking of rental.
We talked about 4% pricing uplift in rental I thought.
So...
LLC</strong> Yes.
I was saying it felt like pricing on the leasing side was in that 3% to 4% range.
I don't know if that's not right.
And then I guess the other question I've got.
So I think you guys just said that you think that FMS margins will be up kind of at least 70 basis points this year.
What are you thinking on Supply Chain margins for the year? John? Okay.
I think our margin percentage came in at 6.3% for this year and that was up from 5.9% in 2012.
And we expect to see an improvement next year it's probably about the same level that we saw in 2013 roughly the same level.
The same amount of improvement.
The next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Robert on the on-demand maintenance program other than looking at changes in contract-related maintenance revenue are there other metrics that you can give us to kind of show the progress of that particular product? We are looking at that Art.
We're trying to figure out a good way to provide that going forward.
I can give you a little more color in terms of -- we have -- we currently have about 10 customers and they generated I think it was $12 million $13 million of revenue in 2013.
So still small relative to Ryder however we expect that to grow -- to continue to grow at a rapid pace.
We're expecting to double the number of customers this year in 2014.
We've got a lot of activity a lot of stuff in the pipeline.
And we're really encouraged by the receptivity in the marketplace for this.
So again not a big part of the company yet but a pretty decent part of the growth story going forward.
As you see we've got it in the waterfall driving a good portion of that $0.11 that are in that one column there on the waterfall.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to quantify its contribution to the pre-tax margin improvement in FMS? Or is it just too small at this point? No I think it would be too small at this point.
The next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Robert I think in your Q1 guidance you talked about a higher share count and a higher tax rate impacting Q1 by $0.04 a share.
Is there anything else that went into that thinking for that guidance? And in particular I'm asking about weather and the impact that that may have on Commercial Rental given that's more of our spot business and just given the crazy weather we've had so far to start the year.
Yes.
No the weather I would say there's puts and takes right? Because rental we should see some benefit from that.
However our lease customers will probably run fewer miles so that will be an offset.
Supply Chain we should see fewer miles especially dedicated with what's going on with the weather.
So no I wouldn't say that's going to be a positive that's not in there.
It's probably -- all kind of washes out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at your CapEx and kind of drilling down a little bit further.
How much and maybe just talk in terms of percentage levels how much is Full Service Lease replacement falling? And then also in terms of percentage level what type of new growth are we talking about for Full Service Lease? Well Kevin we highlighted in the deck there the growth for Full Service Lease we had about $150 million of growth spending in there for just fleet count increase.
And then we also had $430 million of incremental spend which really reflects the delta between what it costs for a new piece of equipment today versus the equipment that we're replacing.
So there's that 40% to 50% uplift in price right now.
We're still experiencing that.
That's embedded in those numbers.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on the question about organic growth within the lease fleet.
How many units do you have factored into your assumptions for 2014? We have if you exclude the Hill Hire de-fleeting which we really probably need to -- so you could tie it to what's happening with revenue.
We're looking at about 2 000 unit growth in the lease fleet.
And again a lot of that is driven just by what we've seen in the fourth quarter sales of 2013 that we know is going to flow into '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the 2 000 would be new units it's not the -- it's not 2 000 average units over the whole year? You're expecting to add 2 000 units incrementally? Right right.
The average is actually going to be up.
If you exclude Hill Hire the average will be up 3 000 units.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay that makes sense.
And then Robert for my follow-up I mean just thinking about the accretion guidance that you have factored in for FMS the $0.29 to $0.33 this year.
Going back to last year that was closer to $0.40.
And my impression was a lot of that was maintenance and maybe not all of that was fully realized depending on how the year came together.
But to me it feels like this year you've got organic lease fleet growth stronger than what you had last year.
You still should be getting the maintenance tailwind as the lease fleet renews.
Is there something else that's offsetting that? And in your prepared remarks I think you talked about the technology related to the new equipment is that impacting some of the maintenance benefit maybe that you have previously expected? Or is there something else going on in FMS that maybe the entire earnings accretion isn't as strong as we would've expected based on what you had laid out in prior years? No I think it's what you originally stated.
I think if you look at we expected at the beginning of last year the improvement that we expected there I think that was muted by some of the challenges with maintenance on the new technology and some of the initiatives that we had talked about that really got a late start if you will in the year.
Also a lot of our growth really came in the second half of the year which is -- which really obviously drives some of that benefit.
But going forward I think it's continuing to work on the maintenance cost side which we made really good progress in the second half.
And I feel really good about that going into 2014.
The challenges around the new technology are a double-edged sword they're tough for us but they're driving more outsourcing in the industry.
So I would tell you net-net they're a positive.
So I still -- I think that going into this year with the growth that we're seeing and continued progress on the maintenance side that's how we're getting to the $0.29 to $0.33 which as you point out is lower than what we had originally expected last year.
But it'll be higher than what we actually realized in 2013.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Quick question.
How -- using the wholesale channel to dispose of excess vehicles what do you think it -- I guess cost is probably not the right word.
But what do you think it cost you having to dispose those vehicles through the wholesale channel as opposed to the retail channel? The difference between wholesale and retail tends to be around 30% so that's probably a good estimate.
And we're expecting this year to move more towards retail.
And that ratio of retail to wholesale might move another 300 to 500 basis points towards retail.
So that will give you an indication of kind of what's going on there.
And again used vehicle pricing is more challenging as is rental demand to forecast than some of the contractual stuff.
But the market has been really healthy for several years now and we're seeing that sort of stabilizing.
So if we can continue where we are right now I think it bodes well for 2014.
Okay.
And then along those the same lines.
If we look at the mix of vehicle disposals say tractors versus trucks versus trailers is there a meaningful shift that you're anticipating in those mixes of vehicles sold 2014 versus 2013? I don't believe so.
I'm going to -- somebody -- I have somebody here kind of looking into that.
But I don't believe that we've got a significant change there.
Yes.
The biggest delta there Jeff is really just in the count from the number of units we're going to sell.
We're just going to sell fewer units because there's a smaller inventory.
And obviously as we wholesale less the count comes down.
Overall for the cash flow of the company though it's going to be a positive.
The next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
So I was pleasantly surprised to see your rental revenue accelerate in the quarter.
Just wanted to get a sense for what drove that? What types of customers are using more rental? Then I have a follow-up question regarding the rental guidance.
Rental has been very strong for the last couple quarters.
Really started off at the beginning of the year.
As you know we had a rougher year in 2012.
And really ended the year very strong.
I think the team has really managed through this very well.
We are running at historically high utilization levels which can make it more challenging to get vehicles to customers.
But we saw a lot of demand in the fourth quarter.
You have your typical demand from parcel type companies and companies that are transporting goods for the season.
But as we got into the first quarter I'll tell you that demand has continued to be seasonally strong in January.
So we're expecting at least as of right now we're seeing rental continue to be strong and the team doing a great job of managing under a tighter utilization environment.
Okay.
And then the 7% growth at rental in '14 I'm assuming that that's a function of January being better x some of the seasonality moving out and just more conviction that the overall truck market is feeling better and maybe accelerating here.
Well actually a lot of that is driven by rate.
We're expecting to see rate continue to go up maybe another 4% in 2014.
And if it heats up a little bit more you might get a little more out of it than what we've got in there now.
But primarily what we've got in there now is rate...those pricing [ph].
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> With the balance sheet improving in recent quarters is it fair to say that you'll be focused more on acquisition opportunities in the next year or 2? And along those same lines I was just wondering if you could talk about the level of activity you're seeing in that M&amp;A market as well.
Yes.
Justin I'm not sure that we'll focus more on it.
I think we have been and continue to be focused on it.
I think the issue is just finding the right opportunity.
We're seeing steady activity.
I wouldn't say it's heated up.
But we continue to be in the market looking for both on the Fleet Management side where we have opportunities to find companies regional competitors who are looking to maybe exit the business and we could pick up customers and good operations that way.
And on the supply chain side where we could pick up additional capabilities that fit into our verticals.
I think we're going to continue to really look at anything that's in the marketplace that fits that criteria.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And as a follow-up with dedicated and logistics you're signing multiyear contracts and I was wondering if you could talk about the typical lead time and visibility in these businesses.
As we sit here today do you have pretty clear line of sight to the SCS growth you forecasted for 2014 based on the business you've already won? Or do you need incremental contracts in order to hit that guidance? We're pretty close now.
I mean we expect to land a lot of new sales during 2014 like we did in 2013.
But you're right.
There is a long lead time both in winning the deal and then doing the start up and getting revenue on.
And so a deal we win in July we're only going to start it up in -- towards the end of the year and get a little revenue from it.
We can kind of see what we think we're going to win for the next couple months right now.
So we're not all the way there but we're pretty far along in getting to our number.
And like I said we have a very strong pipeline in SCS.
And so we had a great year in new sales in 2013 and we expect to have at least as good a year in 2014.
Our final question today is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think I heard you say that the lease fleet growth that you expect for 2014 is based on business that was booked roughly in the fourth quarter is that correct? No I think that's a good chunk of it.
I think obviously we still expect some continued in the second half of the year but we have less visibility to that.
I would tell you that we had as I mentioned a very strong third quarter in terms of we saw some fleet growth and we saw good sales activity.
Fourth quarter we had very strong fleet growth and very strong sales activity that would tell you a very very good environment.
So that's 2 quarters in a row.
Now is that a trend? We'll see.
I think if we have another strong first quarter it starts to really look much more like a trend and I think gives us more visibility into the second half.
But right now what we've built-in is the stuff that we know and then some -- a little bit of continuation but certainly not overextending ourselves in the second half.
LLC Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then we didn't get to talk about where that's coming from.
Is it small accounts? Is it big accounts? Is it any particular areas of retail? Is it industrial? Just any color you could put there would be helpful Robert.
We're seeing activity really like I said since the middle of the year really across the board.
And I would tell you we -- part of it is we are seeing some of the macro trend impacts that we've talked about in the past where customers that are -- that were doing their own maintenance and buying their own trucks are moving and really looking to go to a leasing model so we're encouraged by that.
That probably if you look at the overall addition of trucks that we've put into the fleet it probably makes up about 1/3 of the growth that we're seeing.
We'd like that to be a larger percentage over time as we do a better job of penetrating the non-outsourced fleet.
But we're encouraged by what we're seeing in there.
On the dedicated side we're also seeing customers that are used to doing their own fleet and their own transportation that are now moving to dedicated.
So both of those I think have really helped to drive a favorable trend in sales as we enter the year.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you operator.
Thank you everyone for coming onto the call.
We look forward to seeing you as we go out on our roadshows and our visits to conference -- conferences.
Have a safe day and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Inc.
Corporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
And if you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today’s call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we’ll recap our first quarter results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
We'll then open the call for questions.
With that let's turn to an overview of our first quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $0.92 for the first quarter 2014 up from $0.81 in the prior year.
This reflects an improvement of $0.11 or 14%.
First quarter comparable results excluded non-operating pension costs and the benefit from a state tax law change.
The prior year comparable results exclude non-operating pension costs and a foreign currency translation benefit.
We beat our first quarter forecast range of $0.83 to $0.88 by $0.04 to $0.09.
Our performance was driven by better-than-expected commercial rental and used vehicle sales results.
Severe weather was a negative impact of $0.04 to overall company earnings; however this was offset by other benefits including a property sale and some favorable insurance development during the quarter.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up 4% to a record $1.32 billion.
We saw solid revenue growth in rental full service lease and supply chain.
Page 5 includes some additional financials for the first quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 1.7 million shares to 53.1 million.
This reflects the pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program last year.
In December 2013 we announced a new 2 million share anti-dilutive repurchase program and started purchases under the program in early February.
During the first quarter we purchased 563 000 shares at an average price of $71.85.
Our first quarter tax rate was 34.5% and includes the impact of non-operating pension costs and the benefit of a tax law change.
Excluding these items the comparable tax rate is 37.2% above the prior year of 36.2% and inline with our expectations.
The increased rate reflects the higher proportion of our earnings in higher tax jurisdictions.
Fleet Management Solutions' operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 4% driven mainly by the growth in our Full Service Lease and Commercial Rental.
Full Service Lease revenue increased 4% due to growth in the fleet size and higher rate on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology.
On a year-over-year basis the lease fleet increased by 1 600 units including the planned reduction of 1 200 low-margin trailers in the U.K.
Excluding the U.K trailer impact the lease fleet grew by 2 800 units year-over-year.
Sequentially from the year end the leased fleet grew by 600 units excluding the U.K.
trailers.
We've included a schedule on Page 18 in the appendix summarizing the changes in our lease fleet net of the planned U.K.
trailer de-fleeting.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units were up slightly compared to the prior year and were impacted by weather conditions.
Miles per vehicle have improved since 2011 and are now at normal historical levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 as a result of high replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down 2 months sequentially or 5 months since the first quarter of last year.
Contract maintenance revenue declined 5% mainly due to a shift in vehicle and service mix.
The comparison should improve going forward due to recent sales activity.
Contract-related maintenance increased by 5% from the prior year.
Year-over-year growth was partially offset by activity related to Superstorm Sandy that occurred in the first quarter of 2013.
Contract-related maintenance growth was driven by our new on-demand maintenance product line.
We continue to see both strong new sales and increased activity with current customers for this service offering.
During the quarter we serviced over 7 100 vehicles under on-demand maintenance agreements more than double the prior year.
Commercial Rental revenue grew 10% driven by improved global pricing and higher demand in North America.
The average rental fleet increased by 3% from the prior year and remained unchanged from the fourth quarter.
Rental utilization on power units was 73.6% consistent with the prior year and a strong rate for the seasonally low first quarter.
Global pricing on power units was up 5% for the quarter somewhat above our initial plan.
In used vehicle sales we saw continued solid demand and good pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall improved FMS earnings were driven by strong Commercial Rental performance better used vehicle results and improved Full Service Lease margins.
Improved lease earnings reflect vehicle residual value benefits fleet growth and some deferral of maintenance activity due to weather conditions.
This deferred maintenance activity and the related costs totaling about $0.03 are expected to occur in the second quarter.
In other words this is just a timing issue and should have no impact on the full-year results.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased by 27%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 9% up 160 basis points from the prior year.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on Page 7.
Operating revenue grew 5% due to new business and higher volumes.
We saw growth in our industrial retail and consumer packaged goods and high-tech industry groups.
Operating revenue from our dedicated services increased 7% reflecting continued strong sales activity.
Dedicated revenue growth was offset by loss business and volume reductions in certain automotive accounts.
Excluding the impact from automotive dedicated operating revenue increased 12% during the quarter.
Supply Chain earnings before taxes were down 11%.
The decrease was driven primarily by downtime and related costs caused by adverse weather and to a lesser extent start-up costs on a new account.
Segment earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 4.2% down 70 basis points from the prior year.
We expect year-over-year comparisons to improve going forward as we move past first quarter weather issues.
Page 8 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
I'll turn the call over now to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to Page 9 gross capital expenditures for the quarter were about $600 million that's up $146 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our commercial rental and lease fleets.
As a reference point we are making no changes to our full-year gross capital spending forecast of $2.2 billion.
We have realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue-earning equipment of $128 million up by $14 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher sales prices per vehicle.
Net capital expenditures increased by $132 million to $468 million.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of $238 million during the quarter down slightly from the prior year.
This decrease was driven primarily by increased working capital needs partially offset by higher cash-based earnings.
We generated $380 million of total cash during the quarter that's also down slightly from the prior year reflecting lower operating cash flow.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by $159 million to $579 million for the quarter.
The company had negative free cash flow of $198 million during the quarter below the prior year by $172 million.
This decrease was driven primarily by planned higher spending on rental and leased vehicles compared to the prior year.
Our full year cash flow outlook remains unchanged from the original forecast of negative $300 million.
Page 11 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of $4.5 billion increased by almost $260 million from year-end 2013.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter were 239% up from 226% at the end of 2013.
Leverage remains toward the lower end of our target range of 225% to 275% and should decline by year end.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.9 billion unchanged from year end 2013 as increased earnings were offset by share repurchases and dividends.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 13 summarizes key results from our asset management area.
We continue to reduce used vehicle inventories which are at the lowest level in the past 2 years.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 7 200 vehicles down from 10 000 units in the prior year and 700 units below the fourth quarter.
Used vehicle inventory is in our target range of 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles following higher levels for the past two years due to the lease replacement cycle.
Pricing for used vehicles was strong particularly to trucks.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 2% for tractors and up 12% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 4% and truck pricing was up 16%.
With inventory levels at our target range and strong market demand for used equipment we’ve reduced wholesales sales activity and increased retail sales which benefitted pricing.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by around 130 units or 8%.
Early termination of leased vehicles were 18% below 2013 levels and remained well below pre-recessionary levels.
Our average Commercial Rental fleet was up by 3% versus the prior year and remained unchanged from the fourth quarter.
I'll turn now to Page 15 and cover our outlook and forecast.
In Fleet Management both Commercial Rental and used vehicle sales performed well during the quarter driven by strong demand and pricing trends.
We’ve seen these conditions continue into early April and expect these trends to remain positive resulting in improved performance for these product lines versus our original plan.
We expect rental pricing will increase 5% for the year versus the 4% increase we had in the original plan.
In addition we expect our rental fleet to grow by slightly more than initially planned as we redeploy some surplus vehicles into rental.
For the year we expect the average rental fleet to grow by 4% versus the 2% in our initial plan and we expect our year-end fleet to be up 1% instead of flat.
We continue to see improvement in our Full Service Lease results reflecting the benefit from higher residuals and the growth of our lease fleet.
Lease sales were up from last year and our full year forecast for fleet growth remains on track.
During the quarter maintenance cost benefitted from service activity that was deferred due to poor weather conditions.
We expect this deferred activity and the related cost of around $0.03 to occur during the second quarter.
We continue to make progress on our maintenance initiatives and are pleased with the continued decline in our lease fleet age.
In contract maintenance we recently closed a large deal with a new customer and expect the nice revenue growth were the product line beginning in the second quarter.
We’re also encouraged by the strong market interest that we’re seeing in our new products such as on-demand maintenance and natural gas vehicles.
While currently a small part of our business we believe these products provide us with new ways to approach and penetrate historically non-outsourced private fleet and for higher markets.
In particular on-demand sales activity remains robust.
In Supply Chain and due to weather and to a lesser extent higher than planned start up cost on a new account negatively impacted results for the quarter.
Although some impacts from this account start up will continue into the second quarter we expect SCS margin comparisons will improve in the second quarter and for the balance of the year.
The new sales pipeline continues to be strong including dedicated.
Based on our outlook we are increasing our full year comparable EPS forecast to a range of 540 to 555 up $0.10 from 530 to 545.
This represents a year-over-year increase of 11% to 14%.
The second quarter comparable EPS forecast of $1.35 to $1.40 versus the prior year of $1.25.
Despite the impact of deferred maintenance expenses on the second quarter this is a year-over-year increase of 8% to 12%.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
In order to give everybody an opportunity I’d appreciate if you keep it to two to three questions each.
If you like to get back in the queue we’ll be happy to take as many questions as time permits.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from John Mims from FBR Capital Markets.
Hey thanks good morning guys.
Hey good morning John.
So let me ask first Robert one of the comments you made was with the used trucks inventory being down now as kind of a function of the lease replacements cycle.
Is that starting to decelerate or you know how should we think about you know when -- with demand going forward how much you still have left in terms of just pure replacement and just kind of where the average age of the lease fleet is now? Yeah in terms of the lease fleet age we are – we saw it drop another five months in this quarter versus last year.
It dropped two months versus year end.
So we talked about this fleet age continuing to decline through this year and into early 2015 so continue to see some benefits there but we are getting you know -- we are getting to the latter endings I would say of the replacement cycle.
We are currently in the mid-forties low-to-mid forties in terms of fleet age.
We think that could get down to maybe the low forties down to the 40 41 months and then really taper off that would be kind of our sweet spot.
The last few quarters you have averaged about a month a quarter if I recall.
Is there anything particular about this quarter that accelerated that de-ageing? No I’d say that’s similar to just rounding and included the growth that we are seeing in the fleet it’s helping but most of that is just rounding.
Let me ask on the rental fleet obviously you know winter weather helped you you know probably I think you had more lease fleets out of -- more lease trucks out of service which probably pushed demand for the rental fleet.
You know as far as weather -- excluding weather was the lease fleet kind of where you thought it should be for this quarter and is that – the pricing gains you saw this quarter sustainable for the rest of the year even as you sort of grow the lease fleet I guess the 4% that you said you’ll expand.
Rental fleet you mean right? Yeah yeah rental fleet.
I’ll let Dennis explain on that but the pricing benefits that we saw in the first quarter we expect those to hold and continue through the balance of the year.
Dennis do have any color? Yeah John the demand was robust you know seeing improving economy and you know frankly we are monitoring our turn downs also and trying to ensure that those don’t get too high and we saw that increase.
So it wasn’t just the weather it was also just demand.
In general it was higher so our outlook is fairly strong in rental.
Okay.
And then one final question is on that same line.
Well Sanchez you’ve seen some good new lease growth but a lot of your existing lease customers are still supplementing fleets with rental.
Have you started to see that shift where people are willing to commit more into leases or you expect to see that more this year and if so how does that play into your outlook on the size of your rental fleet? I think we started to see some of that shift since the second half of last year as our lease sales started to pick back up but we are -- what we are seeing is the rental market continues to be hot even with customers that are not lease customers pure rental and I think as long as we continue to see that we are going to manage that.
We are going to rely more this year I think on redeployment and rate initially and that’s currently the plan what we’ve got built in to our updated guidance.
Got it.
I would just add to this Dennis.
I would just add that when you look at the macro trends that are playing out right now with the shortage in technicians and drivers and the new technology and the higher expenses that our customers are seeing I think we are also starting to see that private fleet really look to us to say can you help us out because they are feeling the pains of these macro trends right now.
So it’s not only existing customers looking at a rental lease decision you got the private fleet customers that are starting to look to us for help with these macro trends that are coming into play.
Are you still seeing any of those I guess you could describe them as like serial renters who are keeping rental trucks paying the daily rate but keeping them for months at a time because they are afraid of turning them back in and loose that capacity? John it’s Dennis again.
Yes I mean we’ll see that but they are looking at always doing the trade-offs of is the better economics to go to leased trucks.
So we are obviously encouraging those customers to do that if they have a strong outlook in their business to make a long-term commitment.
Okay alright.
Well thanks for the time and terrific quarter thanks.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong>  Great thanks good morning.
I want to make sure I understand the weather comments here in the quarter.
Robert you mentioned [$0.04] of weather I’m trying to get a sense of kind of what you are thinking about what’s included in that $0.04 and then I think you said that that was offset by some property gains and some insurance but the $0.03 related to the maintenance would be separate from the offset from the weather or the $0.04 of weather that you mentioned.
Yes the $0.04 is company why it includes the impact and Supply Chain in FMS but that’s an additional $0.03 you could look at it that was an additional $0.03 that are being offset that really will carry over into the second quarter.
So on a full year basis I would say the weather impact is more like $0.07 and it’s been offset by in the first quarter by those other items that I mentioned and as you will see in the second quarter based on the guidance we give you we were seeing the business really picking up in other areas.
Research Division</strong>  Okay and then the $0.04 of weather if you had to break it up between FMS and the Supply Chain you know could you give a little bit more granular on that and then specifically within FMS what was it was it miles driven on the lease fleet or what were some of the headwins from weather on FMS? I think if you keep it simple it’s probably depending on where you put the offsets it’s half and half maybe a little bit more towards supply chain than FMS.
In terms of the negatives the negatives in supply chain were depleted volumes in automotive and dedicated where our customers had planned shut downs or just routes they did not run and that volume impacts our supply chain business.
In FMS the negatives were really around these customers not running as many miles.
We had deferment of maintenance costs due to the fact that the vehicles couldn’t come in for repairs and those are the ones that are showing up in the second quarter.
And then we clearly had more breakdowns and more maintenance cost associated with the vehicles being down due to the weather.
Research Division</strong>  Okay that makes sense.
And then my follow-up which is on the 600 unit growth in the lease fleet sequentially excluding the U.K.
trailers.
I think on the fourth quarter call you talked about 2000 units on a full year basis it seems like you’re a little bit ahead of that.
Is that the right way to think about it and as you think about your original plan versus something that was more front-end loaded than back-end loaded or you maybe just started off the year a little bit stronger than maybe what you anticipated on the leasing side?  Yeah I would say we are on track with where we expected to be in the first quarter.
I mentioned on the call last quarter that we didn’t forecast that continued same sales activity into the second half of the year as we had in the first.
I think it’s still too early on that also.
So we’re kind of holding steady on the lease forecast that’s in the guidance we’ve given you and probably we’ll be in a better position to evaluate that after the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
Thanks for the time and congratulations.
Thank you Todd.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Hey good morning guys.
I guess it wasn’t clear maybe you said it I just haven’t picked up on it.
Where are the units coming from? I think Art you had said that the full year gross CapEx guidance is unchanged but you’re taking the rental fleet higher by a couple of hundred basis points.
Where are those trucks being sourced from if CapEx is not changing in totality? Yeah it’s really two things.
One is we’re holding on to vehicles a little longer that we otherwise would be selling and probably the bigger issues we’re moving vehicles that are coming off of leases we are moving those into the rental fleets.
So we are flexing.
We are taking advantage of the asset management capabilities that we have to really bring the fleet up without any additional CapEx.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then I don’t know if John’s on call John Williford.
I didn’t hear him.
I’m here.
Okay good.
Just wanted to address Supply Chain Solutions margins.
I’m assuming that the first quarter was impacted by elevated expenses within the dedicated fleet.
I think you had last said that you expected a similar trajectory of margin improvement in ’14 relative to ’13 say about 40 basis points.
I’m assuming we can just ascribe the first quarter issues here to weather nothing has changed to that outlook and we aught to be little close to just quantify kind of 6.7% run rate in 2Q and beyond.
Is that fair? Yeah exactly.
I think if you were to adjust for the weather impact and also for the lesser impact at the start up that we called out we would’ve been right on track with we expected and what we guided to for the year before.
Okay good.
And then just last one Robert thinking about the lease fleet age normalizing in early 2015 miles per truck within the lease fleet being back to normal levels.
You’ve got a lease fleet that’s bigger sure there’s some puts and takes in terms of the mix of the profile with that lease fleet but you’re got firm rental demand trends as well.
No reason to think that – you guys have talked about previous peak margin as being a guidepost.
I mean ’15 looks like it’s a pretty clean year and that should be the year that we have pretty good visibility to being back to those previous peak margins within FMS correct? Well I don’t know if I’m ready to give guidance for 2015 yet but your thinking is right.
I think we had talked about this year continuing to make progress towards that 12% to 13% we ended up last year at 10% so that would get us into the… About 160 in this quarter.
A rough 160 in this quarter.
So yeah clearly if these trends continue that would lead you into getting close to those ranges or in those ranges in 2015.
That was good.
Thanks for the time guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Thank you very much and congratulations.
I just want to hone in a little on the tax rate.
I thought it would be running little closer to 35 36 is 37.2 the right rate to think about for the year now? Yeah we had guided Jeff at the beginning of the year that our plan for the full year was about 35.7 for the comparable tax rate.
And for us typically what you’d expect is a higher tax rate in the first half of the year and a lower tax rate in the second half of the year really as we file our tax returns and we’re able to take advantage of reversals and things like that.
So we are looking at – the tax rate for the first quarter was on plan so that’s what we expected.
Second half the tax rate was probably closer to 35% I’d say and then you have a higher tax rate in the first half of the year.
Okay.
So we’re sticking to the 35.7 for the year.
Yeah that hasn’t changed.
Okay.
And then just to follow up earlier you talked about how the fleet was getting to about the right age I know equipment is a little more expensive but we have been running kind of elevated capital levels.
If I look at the non-growth capital outlook are you saying we may gravitate toward kind of the 1.4-ish 1.3-ish range over the next two years ex growth? Our maintenance CapEx if that’s what you mean that’s probably at the ballpark with what we’ve articulated yes and that’s excluding growth.
So remember we had pretty big growth element this year.
For lease we had estimated at the beginning of the year about over $500 million so we’re still on track with that.
Okay guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Hey thanks morning.
Good morning Scott.
LLC</strong> I think last quarter you shared that a good amount on the fleet growth was coming from private fleet conversion I don’t know if you gave that number for this quarter.
And then just kind of bigger picture so it feels like leasing demand is getting better but leasing fleet is still up just kind of 1%.
When you think we need to start seeing closer to mid single digit growth in the fleet or do you think that’s kind of an unrealistic expectation? Well no Scott I think that’s the target.
That’s where we want to get to right.
It’s just – this is a journey we’re on of really dealing with some changes that are going on in the market that as we’ve mentioned really are favorable to outsourcing around fleets and the expansion of our product offerings also.
So the growth could come it’s going to be in Full Service Lease but it’s also going to be in some of the other products and it’s hard to pick in any given quarter where you’re going to see that more pronounced.
But no I think you’re right in that the goal would be to over time be up in that higher single digit mid-single digit number.
But for the short run and really what we’re really trying to get to we think 2000 is a really good number in terms of growth year over year and we’re on track to achieve that.
We saw continued activity in sales both in lease and some of the other product lines.
We talked about a significant account that we won this quarter in contract maintenance which is really will become our largest contract maintenance account.
So there is another examples we continue to make progress.
And back to the number you asked the question about the number of customers that had come from private fleet.
Last quarter we said that a third of the growth had come from private fleet conversions.
We’re generally in that same range now in the first quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
So every year in the beginning year you give some really good kind of earnings bridge and wanted to know if you can help us update that and then as something’s are going better maybe gains on sales weather was a negative what are the other moving parts that are getting better and worse relative to that initial bridge? Well we’ve outgrown through the -- we haven’t updated that bridge but I would tell you I mean just based on the comments here we’ve given you you know that right now commercial rental and UVS are going to be better and what was in the bridge that’s really what’s driving the uplift.
Supply Chain is going to be down a bit because of the weather impacting the first quarter.
But really I guess that’s the primary trade-off.
LLC</strong> Okay and then last thing does the start to think about net buy backs any time soon or is it more just anti-dilutive stuff going forward? You know we’re going to stick with anti-dilutive for now.
As you saw our leverage was up a little bit that current inline with what we expected we expect and the year in that to 25 range to 30 range.
So yeah unless there’s a big change from that number I’d expect us to just continue with the anti-dilutive format.
LLC</strong> Okay alright thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hey good morning guys nice quarter.
First question is given the level of class A truck orders that we’ve seen thus far this year can you talk a little bit about where you are in the order queue how long it’s taking you to get equipment and do you have any concern that the availability of equipment could maybe impact the timing of some of the new leases coming on? Remember we secure slot dates at the beginning of the year with the OEMs and so those dates are kind of set for us and they are reserved for us.
So we don’t – you know its one of the benefits that we bring to customers during these types of periods when things start to stretch out a bit is that we have the dates that we can sell into.
So there’s been somewhat of an increase in the delivery times that we try looking about a week longer but what we’re – what we see on our end because of the slot date strategy that we have it’s really turning into more of an advantage in this type of a period.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if you needed additional equipment is it readily available and then can you give can you boost the numbers you have taken in those delivery dates?  Well yeah within certain ranges we can.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so minimal impact of the timing there.
And then I guess you know going back to the fleet age just given the forecast to grow at your full year leased fleet this year you know if you were to hit that forecast to growth level where do you think the age of the fleet is going to be at year end and how do you compare that versus the goal? We would be really close right.
We’re going to be in the 41 42 range which gets us really close to where we went.
I figure this thing will likely stabilize somewhere in the first or second quarter of next year and we’ll be really close by the end of this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then should we then begin to see maybe a little bit stronger free cash flow generation because you won’t be – you know I guess what I’m asking is you know you are buying new equipment obviously to you spoke to new leased customers you’ve gone through kind of a de-ageing process in some of your other equipment.
Does that result in a little bit better free cash flow generation at that point or do you I guess the high class problem would be that the lease business is growing so fast that it doesn’t right am I thinking about that right?  Yes yes John.
This is ours -- would expect as the replacement cycle really starts to normalize we would spend less on that.
We still have that growth element we’ve been talking about but even that should start to abate somewhat as we’re starting to replace new technology.
So you have that right you would start to see that it doesn’t the replacement piece drop.
Now we are obviously hoping that we could sell a lot of new leased vehicles into that so we’re going to spend a lot of growth capital on that.
And then the other wild card you always had to factor is in rental you know where we’ve kind of moved that depending on what’s happened in the market at that time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and just given the utilization on the rental fleet are there any further concerns about the age there you are comfortable with with where you are in terms of the fleet age there? John this is Dennis.
We are comfortable with where it’s at right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Again nice quarter guys.
Thanks for your time.
Bye bye.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Ross with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning David.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of years ago really to the last few years you have talked about your customers when they renew their contract in full service lease don’t always get the same number of trucks so say in 2007 they signed up for 12 trucks maybe when they renewed they only got eight or ten.
Are you still seeing that lower level of replacement from existing customers when they renew or they are now renewing at the same amounts in terms of trucks is it old contract or you are actually seeing it shift to an increased number?  Yeah I still think we haven’t got David what you see in the – the customer that had 10 needs 11.
I think you see in them more likely to renew.
So that could prove significantly from previous years but there is kind of rising tide of every 10 truck fleet meeting in other ones you know I don’t think we are there yet and I’ll let Dennis kind of elaborate on that a bit.
Yeah the other thing David is obviously a lot of our key customers will utilize our rental fleet to flex with capacity needs that they have and then they are making the trade off all the time.
You know once the demand is sustained and they are renting all the time back to a previous question I answered that you are making the trade off between rental and lease and to make sense to go to lease.
So we are kind of at the point now where I’d say it’s pretty flat you know.
A customer when they’re renewing its flat but then they are using a rental fleet to flex and then overtime making that trade-off into a more economical lease unit.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It’s helpful.
And then on the used vehicle side why has truck pricing been so much stronger than truck pricing in the past couple of years and again in the first quarter? Yeah I think there’s a couple of things going on there one is the shift from wholesale to retail.
You know we talked about with inventory levels coming down we were going to start to work more on the retail channel and less the wholesale.
So that’s given us about half of that boost and then the other half is just the markets is up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question is just on dedicated.
Very strong enough 12% X auto can you talk about how that 12% growth breaks down in terms of new business wins or pricing was it maybe existing customer growth? John.
Yeah sure.
Well its – the 12% more than 12% its coming from new wins and then there are some amounts that crops up in terms of lost business every year.
So and what we’ve been saying for the past more than one year our dedicated product is very attractive and the pipeline is strong and dedicated and our product is very attractive and so we have a very good win rate and a very good pipeline.
And so we are seeing and we’re seeing that continue and accelerate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What about pricing on the average dedicated contract.
Is that up a percent year-over-year as well? I’d say the margins on the contract is about stable.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
The next question is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Can you please check your mute button? Sorry about that.
Yes with regard to your conversations with customers can you just describe how some of this are evolving with regard to the attempts to convert rental to lease? The attempt to convert rental customers to lease yeah those are ongoing discussion everyday.
And you know typically its customers are coming in for what we call a lease extra.
It's a lease customer who has an extra unit they're using seasonally.
As was mentioned earlier sometimes that seasonal use of extended for a longer period of time and in times of uncertainty but typically it’s just part of the normal sales process.
You know our lease account manager will be in there talking on the lease account manager will know how many vehicles they are renting and will talk to them if there are opportunities to convert them.
So I would say as Dennis mentioned in this environment there is more discussion and more opportunities around that.
Okay.
But have they been sort of trending those discussions generally been trending more favorably just given the increased sort of market dynamics presently.
And then to some extent a view that the economy does look like its maybe a little bit better going forward and with that increased confidence with the economy there’s more sort of -- inclinations to lease instead of rent? Yeah </strong>this is Dennis.
Yeah the answer to your question is yes they have been trending more favorably.
I think as customers have a better outlook on their business going forward they’re making the tradeoff between serving those customers with a rental unit that will have a higher price and if they’re able to make the commitment to lease they’re looking at the lease options.
So yeah the discussions are trending favorably in terms of rental to lease conversion.
Okay thanks.
And I want to ask a question with regard to what you’re seeing with regard to the OEMs.
Obviously the new orders have built up.
There seems to be a backlog building.
And as we look a little bit further forward should we be concerned about the eventual deliveries of these trucks.
And is there a typical sort of timeframe in which the new order activities sort of lags in terms of the impact – potential impact on FMS? Yeah </strong> this is Dennis.
At this point we don’t have any concerns.
But we’ll see how the year plays out.
But right now we’re not seeing the backlogs impact delivery outside of the one week that Robert talked about earlier.
So right now we don’t have any concerns.
Okay.
If I could just ask a follow-on to that to what extent of the order book are you able to sort of parse out and sort of figure out what might be replacement versus growth CapEx? You’re talking about for the OEMs or for…? Yeah on the OEM side.
Yeah well I think the OEMs have been saying the majority of their stuff still continues to be replacement.
I don’t think that we’re seeing an environment where the overall truck fleets have grown significantly.
That’s the one that we’ve talked about.
You probably have to see a GDP growth of – we used to think it was 2 it’s probably more like 3 or 4 because of all the efficiencies that go into the system and the miniaturization of product over time you need more GDP growth to see the truck fleet population really rise significantly.
All right.
Well thanks for the detail.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Thanks.
Good morning.
And congrats on the quarter.
Thank you Jeff.
One of the items we heard about from another large dedicated provider in their first quarter print was that they faced the headwinds in dedicated due to issues finding drivers.
Is this something that you’ve dealt with in the quarter as well and going forward do you think that driver shortage in the industry could be a limiting factor to growth in your dedicated business? Actually I think there is a driver shortage; there has been for some time.
As the economy strengthens it’s going to get a little worse.
I think it’s a reason to outsource and I think it’s driven some part of our growth.
It’s hard to be sure and there’s a lot of issues that cause private fleet operators to decide to go with dedicated but that’s certainly one of them.
A lot of the customers we’re talking to now in our pipeline and the recent wins have had trouble recruiting drivers.
We think it’s a strength we have.
So yeah it’s a challenge that everyone faces but that we view as a strategic benefit that should help drive growth.
Yeah I think Justin just to add to that I think that’s consistent with what you hear on the FMS side the more challenging what we do becomes the better it is for us because people are – you know we specialize in it.
People who are trying to do it on their own as a side business are going to struggle and gives us an opportunity to sell our outsourcing value props.
So whether it’s driver recruiting or tech recruiting or the new engine technology or additional regulation those are all – those tend to be over time favorable for outsourcing.
Right.
And I guess I’m familiar with kind of that trend in outsourcing and how the driver shortage could help that but is there something specifically that maybe differentiates your ability to get drivers versus other dedicated providers in the market that could explain why you maybe didn’t see this issue in the quarter and someone else did? I can’t speak to our competitors.
We are one of the larger – we are not the – we are one of the largest players if that not the largest and we have a long history.
We have very low turnover.
We think we’re good at dealing with drivers.
A lot of the business we win is coming from private fleet conversions.
So it’s not like we’re trading customers back and forth with our largest competitors.
I think we’re all seeing this huge market of private fleet operators start to consider dedicated for a variety of reasons and driver shortage is one of them.
Okay great.
That’s helpful and maybe this one last one sticking with the dedicated theme.
When you think about your opportunity to shift customers from a full service lease to a dedicated contract you’ve talked about around 2000 customers where you think it would make sense for that transition.
I wanted to ask about the size of those customers you’re targeting.
Do those tend to be the larger fleets in your customer base or would they be more kind of in line with the size of the average full service lease customer? Yeah it’s full range.
My partner here sitting next to me has been really good at working with –together at combing through their customers and their prospects who’ve taken different approaches to different types of customers including segmenting them by size.
And we’ve been finding that there are great opportunities with very large fleet and you know lot of good project opportunities that are big and also a lot of medium sized and then even small deals.
And we’re just taking different approaches and we’re trying to segment the market and attack all of them.
Okay great.
That’s good to hear.
I’ll leave it at that.
I appreciate the time.
Okay thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
The next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Hey morning everyone.
Most of my questions have been answered by now.
But just one quick one I think this is for Dennis.
When you talk about private fleet conversion and/or whether it’s maybe conversions from a customer who did their own maintenance converting to you or full service lease is there any time where – how do we think about earnings from that I guess? Are those immediately accretive or do they take time to ramp that business up where it’s maybe two quarters out before you see the full accretion from that opportunity? Art let me try to answer it this way.
First you’re getting in the door with a lot of these private fleets.
You know a lot of time it’s not initially just with the full service lease we’re coming in and you know let’s suppose their issue is with maintenance the new technology or technician shortages that exist.
We’re coming in and solving those problems initially and those are accretive immediately.
And just like we talked about (indiscernible) vehicles that we touched in Q1 for on-demand maintenance that gets us in the door.
And once we’re in the door and we get to know the customer they get to know us then we’re talking contract maintenance.
In fact the large customer that Robert talked about earlier that we just signed up for contract maintenance believe it or not we got in the door talking on-demand and it led to contract maintenance.
And who knows pretty soon you’d say hey why not full service lease why not dedicated.
So to answer your question it’s accretive pretty much from the get-go with these deals but we’re getting in the door.
What I’m trying to say is it’s not just with full service lease we’re coming in with what we call them on-ramps various low commitment products where we can get in the door and really allow the customer to get to know us.
And then from there showing the multiple value-added services that we have to sell them up.
Inc.</strong> Right.
That’s helpful.
One last thing and you’d mentioned you guys had mentioned the strong order rates that we’ve seen in the last several months have your lead times to get trucks changed at all and the ability to get trucks in a short term? Yeah I already mentioned earlier.
It is very little infact about maybe seven days slight shift.
We have secured slot dates with the OEMs so those big states firm even as business picks up and we’re able to fill the slot dates with the sales that we bring in.
Inc.</strong> Did your relationship -- do you think as we move forward is your relationship or your position with the OEMs maybe create a potential kind of I don’t know if I want to use the term competitive advantage but something that you can help view in the sale process for a fleet conversion potentially? There is no doubt because we’re – typically when lead time starts to stretch out we have the advantage of the slot date that can usually get your vehicles sooner.
So that does become an advantage in our market once it starts to really heat up.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
That’s all I got today thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Hey thanks good morning.
Good morning Matt.
So just circling back to a previous question on the dedicated side you talked to your ability that the fine drivers in the market and in a pretty tight market I assume that also comes at a cost.
So my question being you know driver pay is that starting to ramp up at Ryder and is it a potential headwin that maybe could get worse as the year progresses if the market remains tighter or gets even tighter? There were some margin headwins.
You know they tend to be in areas where it’s really hard to find drivers and we have to put in either leased drivers on a short term basis or in some cases where we have to provide service no matter what we provide kind of kind of expensive say truck load service until we get a driver hired.
Certainly we had a little of that in the first quarter because of some of those because of the weather.
But we do see the impact in terms of existing accounts where there’s a lot of pressure on driver wages.
We work with the account and we work with our make sure we have market based wages and you know we have attractive jobs and we keep our turnover rates are really low specially relative to other modes of transportation.
So we work on an account by account basis and when we do have to make an increase you know that maybe a bit more than you would expect.
We work with the account to pass that on.
Okay.
And how long typically is the lag between having to take up pay and it probably varies from an account by account basis.
But picking up the driver pay eating that cost and then going back to the customer and hopefully 100% of that cost.
We work to make that lag either zero or very very short because we try to get out in front of that and we start talking to accounts about the pressure you know if we see maybe a little turnover and – it's certainly – it's usually a regional issue.
And so if we see some region or part of – you know some DC that they have we’re experiencing a little more pressure we’ll get out in front of that and we’ll talk to the customer who will really try and time it as close as we can.
So we are not eating anything.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then so we had a nice market on the rental side.
We are growing the fleet at this point; we are growing at a little bit more than we previously thought.
I guess some concern here if the market were to decelerate we don’t want to get caught out with I guess a larger a larger fleet.
How do you protect yourself from the downside? If the rental market does desell all of a sudden you feel like you are too big.
What are some of the levers that you can pull to right size the fleet? Yeah we feel really good about what we can do.
We got a centralized asset management function that’s proven to be very effective.
We put that in place over a decade ago and you know what we are doing for example when we did it back in 2012 when we faced the very issue you are describing.
Right.
Is we look at our rental fleet and we opened it up to sell our used equipment in the lease and release application and we are able to right size the fleet in three or four months by not back filling the unit.
Today what we do is we allow our lease sales force to sell the used equipment out of rental but then we backed over it immediately.
So what we do is we shut off the backfill and we would continue to then sell into the lease application.
In addition we turn up the out servicing more for older units that we have.
As Robert mentioned earlier right now we are expanding the fleet by taking units coming off a lease and putting them into rental.
And you know we obviously wouldn’t do that instead we’d outservice the units and outservice older units within rental.
So we feel really good about our ability to match supply with demand and to respond to equipment.
And I guess just to add to that I wanted to be clear that we are not buying more units in – and rental.
We are simply redeploying some units from other applications into rental.
And as Dennis mentioned we have numerous avenues to get out of vehicles and bring that fleet count down if the market were to turn.
Okay.
And just a follow up.
When you guys got a little bit over extended in rental in 2012 were you buying new equipments or were you doing what you are doing now? Yeah we had placed a very large order for rental equipment that year and unfortunately when the market turned we had just placed the orders and they were all committed and coming in.
The timing wasn’t very good at when that happened it happened in February.
So we are past that timeframe we certainly don’t have an order anywhere near the size we did back then and this uplift in fleet is just redeploying that equipment.
But I would tell you we learned during that process we turned some additional avenues for getting out of rental vehicles one of which Dennis mentioned about a role robust program to leasing vehicles out of our rental fleet which we’re comfortable that we can read we can use again it was very helpful in 2012.
Okay that’s what I was getting at.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Hey thanks.
Just one follow up and I was certain you were looking at you know when people talked about your relationship with OEMs and the ability to grow the leased fleet.
You know when you reference the shift of deferrals for more outsourcing and kind of the pie of outsource market growing and you provide some numbers in your -- but if I do a back of [envelope] math I get like a 1% shift from private ownership into leased fleet would equate to about a 20 000 truck growth number for you.
And those numbers get pretty astronomically big fairly quickly.
And is that are you seeing that much of a shift where you could be talking in terms over the next couple of years in the 20 30 40 000 truck growth just based on that outsourced opportunity or is it coming much slower than that? Yeah I think the way to look at it’s actually larger than what you stated.
1% is 7.4 million commercial vehicles in the U.S.
So 1% is actually 74 000 vehicles.
So we don’t need to move the market a whole lot in order to really significantly grow the business.
So yes what we see as the long term opportunity is that and we did get – so one more vehicle out of a 100 would bring us a fleet growth of over 50%.
Yes.
I would think in that 74….
Within what’s already outsourced.
Right.
So I guess with the background I mean from a network facility standpoint from an OEM ordering standpoint I mean can you if the opportunity was there for you know lets say 70 000 trucks.
I mean is that something that’s obviously much larger than your fleet now.
So is that in growth that you can absorb you know in any sort of realistic fashion? We believe we have capacity with our current network correct me if I’m wrong – 50 to 60 000 vehicles that we could absorb with the current network without making significant investment in more facilities just technicians.
You are just adding technicians and adding shifts.
So obviously exactly how that kind of plays out and we’ll see as we get there but the point is we got plenty of capacity of really growing the fleet from the level that we are at now.
Right absolutely.
Okay cool well thanks for the clarification.
Again great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Robert Sanchez for closing comments.
Great thank you.
Well we are at the top of our hour.
I think we answered.
We got a lot of calls so that’s good news.
And thank you for being on the call and have a safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen only mode until after the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today’s call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our second quarter 2014 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
Then I'll open up the call for questions.
With that let's turn on overview of our second quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.44 for the second quarter of 2014 up from a $1.25 in the prior year.
This reflects an improvement of $0.19 or 15%.
Second quarter comparable results for both years exclude non-operating pension costs.
We beat the second quarter forecast range of $1.35 to a $1.40 by $0.04 to $0.09.
Our outperformance was driven by better-than-expected used vehicle pricing and commercial rental performance.
This was partially offset by lower supply chain results.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up by 6% to a record $1.39 billion for the second quarter.
We saw revenue growth in both segments and in all major product lines.
Page five includes some additional financials for the second quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 1.1 million shares to 53 million.
This reflects the pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program last year.
In December of 2013 we announced a new 2 million share anti-dilutive repurchase program and started buying under the program in early February.
During the second quarter we bought 464 000 shares at an average price of $84.06.
Our second quarter 2014 tax rate was 36.9% which includes the impact of non-operating pension cost.
Excluding this item the comparable tax rate is 37.1% above the prior year of 36%.
The increased rate reflects the impact of non-deductible foreign operating losses resulting in a higher than expected tax rate.
Page six highlights key financial statistics on a year-to-date basis.
Operating revenue was up 5% to $2.7 billion.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $2.36 up 15% from $2.06 in the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital narrowed to 90 basis points down from 110 basis points in the prior year driven primarily by lower leverage.
On a full year basis we expect the spread to widen to 100 basis points which is higher than our previous forecast of 90 basis points.
The forecast improvement is driven primarily by higher projected earnings.
I’ll now turn to page seven and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 6% driven mainly by the growth in commercial rental and full service lease.
This is the highest organic revenue growth rate we’ve seen in FMS in a decade.
Full service lease revenue increased by 5% due to higher rate on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology and the growth in the lease fleet.
On a year-to-date basis the lease fleet increased by 2 700 vehicles including the planned reduction of 800 low-margin trailers in the UK.
Excluding the UK trailer impact the lease fleet grew by 3 500 units year-over-year.
Sequentially from the first quarter the lease fleet was relatively unchanged.
This is in line with our second quarter expectation and reflects variability in the timing of lease sales activity.
Following strong new sales in the second quarter we’re increasing our outlook for full year lease fleet growth excluding UK trailers to 2 500 vehicles above our prior forecast of 2 000.
This forecast reflects our current view and of course could change based on customer activity during the last half of the year.
Miles driven per vehicles per day on U.S.
lease power units were up 1% compared to the prior year and have returned to normal historical levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 and as a result of higher replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down by one month sequentially or five months since the second quarter of last year.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 2% primarily reflecting the implementation of a significant new customer contract signed earlier in the year.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew by 2 400 vehicles from the prior year.
Contract-related maintenance increased by 9% from the prior year.
On demand maintenance continued to show solid growth as we continued to see both strong new sales and increased activity with current customers for this service offering.
During the quarter we serviced 6 500 vehicles under on demand maintenance agreements a 75% increase from the prior.
Commercial rental revenue grew 13% driven by improved global pricing and higher demand in North America; the average rental fleet increased by 8% from the prior year and 4% sequentially.
We have continue to redeploy surplus and off-lease vehicles into rental in order to meet strong market demand.
Rental utilization on power units was 78.3% below the prior year of 80.5% but at a strong absolute level.
The decline in utilization for the quarter was due primarily to vehicles out of service due to maintenance deferred from the first quarter.
Global pricing on power units was up 5% for the quarter and in line with our expectations.
In used vehicle sales we saw strong demand in pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall FMS earnings increased due to significantly higher used vehicle sales results strong commercial rental performance and better Full Service Lease results.
The earnings impact from used vehicle sales was driven by higher gains realized from increased used vehicle pricing.
Commercial rental performance benefited from stronger pricing and demand environments.
Better lease results reflects vehicle residual value benefits and fleet growth.
These benefits more than offset the impact from maintenance activity delayed from the first quarter.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased 28% reflecting better used vehicle pricing and leverage on revenue growth.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 12.5% up 210 basis points from the prior year.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on Page 8.
Operating revenue grew 6% due to new business and higher volumes with growth in all industry groups.
New business primarily benefited dedicated as well as our high-tech and CPG industry verticals.
We saw volume improvements in auto industrial and high-tech.
Operating revenue from dedicated services increased 7% reflecting continued strong sales activity.
Dedicated revenue growth was partially offset by loss business in certain automotive accounts.
SCS earnings before taxes were down 7% the decrease was driven primarily by higher than expected start-up cost on a new international distribution management account.
This impacted earnings by almost $4 million in the quarter.
Earnings were also impacted to a lesser degree by shutdown cost related to lost automotive business.
These negative impacts were partially offset by new business and improved dedicated performance.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 5.6% down 80 basis points from the prior year.
Page nine shows business segment view of the income statement I just discussed that is included here for your reference.
Page 10 reflects our year-to-date results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but I'll just highlight the bottom line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were 125.7 million up 17% from the prior year.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 11 year-to-date gross capital expenditures were around 1.25 billion up nearly $270 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our commercial rental and lease fleets as well as $40 million for the purchase of our headquarters facility during the second quarter (audio gap) to $2.31 billion.
The increase reflects additional rental capital of $100 million for targeted spending in certain vehicle classes which are in high demand as well as for replacement of some rental vehicles used to fulfill lease sales.
The forecast also includes $50 million of higher lease capital related to increased sales activity.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of $277 million up by $48 million or 21% from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher sales prices per vehicle across all channels.
Given strong used vehicle pricing trends we are increasing our outlook for full year sales proceeds to 530 million.
We're also forecasting an increase of 25 million in our planned sale lease back transaction which should now total 125 million.
Year-to-date net capital expenditures increased by $220 million to $980 million.
Full year net capital expenditures are now forecast at $1.66 billion up by $60 million from our prior forecast.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of approximately $540 million during the first half down slightly from the prior year.
This decrease was driven primarily by the timing of annual pension contributions and higher working capital needs partially offset by higher cash based earnings.
We generated $845 million of total cash year-to-date slightly up from the prior year primarily due to higher sales proceeds which more than offset lower operating cash flow.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by about $300 million to $1.26 billion year-to-date.
Company had negative free-cash flow of 410 million year-to-date below the prior year by about 300 million.
This decrease was driven primarily by planned higher spending on rental and leased vehicles compared to the prior year and was in line with our plans.
Our full year outlook for free-cash flow is unchanged at negative $300 million.
Higher forecasted gross capital spending is expected to be offset by stronger used vehicle sales proceeds and increase in the sale lease back transaction and higher cash from operations.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of 4.8 billion increased by about $520 million from year-end 2013.
Total obligations as a percent equity at the end of quarter or 245% up from 226% at the end of 2013.
Leverage is just below the mid-point of our target range of 225% to 275% and is expected to decline by year-end.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.97 billion up by $68 million from year-end 2013 as increased earnings more than offset share repurchases and dividends.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results from our asset management area.
We continue to reduce used vehicle inventories which are at the lowest levels in the past two years.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 6 300 vehicles significantly down from 9 600 units from the prior year and 900 units below the first quarter.
Used vehicle inventory is in our target range of 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles following higher levels for the past two years due to the lease replacement cycle.
Pricing from used vehicles was strong for both tractors and trucks.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 15% for tractors and 16% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 9% and truck pricing was up 4%.
Pricing benefited significantly as we have shifted more of our sales to retail instead of wholesale now that inventories are in our target range.
In addition retail pricing levels also improved versus the prior year especially for tractors.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond the original lease term increased versus last year by around 200 units or 6% but remained below the 2010 2012 levels.
Early termination of lease vehicles declined 11% and remained well below recessionary levels.
Our average commercial rental fleet was up 8% versus the prior year and up 4% from the first quarter.
I will turn now to page 18 to cover our outlook and forecast actually page 17.
Our stronger full year earnings outlook reflects improvements in fleet management solutions partially offset by lower supply chain results.
Strong performance in both used vehicle sales and rental has continued into early July and we expect these trends to continue throughout the second half.
In rental we increased capacity during the second quarter through redeployment of surplus vehicles.
Given the further strengthening and demand we have seen we now also plan to add a modest number of new vehicles in the second half.
Our full year average rental fleet is now planned to grow by 5% up from the prior forecast of 4%.
The year end fleet will grow by 4%.
Our outlook for rental pricing is unchanged with a 5% increase for the full year.
We continue to expect improvement in our full service lease results largely reflecting the benefits of higher residual values and the growth in our lease fleet.
We had strong lease sales performance in the second quarter and as a result we have increased our expectation for full year fleet growth to around 2 500 vehicles.
This outlook reflects our current view and of course could change based on customer activity in the second half.
We continue to make progress on our maintenance initiatives and are pleased with a continued decline in our lease fleet age.
In contract maintenance we saw nice revenue and fleet growth this quarter as a result of a large deal signed earlier in the year.
We’re also encouraged by the strong market interest in our new products including on-demand maintenance and natural gas vehicles.
While currently a small part of our business these products can become a meaningful part of our growth rate.
We now expect this year’s FMS operating margin to approach pre-recessionary levels of 12% ahead of our earlier expectations.
Part of this is due to strong used vehicle pricing which doesn’t impact revenue but benefits earnings.
Looking ahead we believe there is further upside to FMS margins driven by stronger residual values fleet growth and other items.
In supply chain higher than planned start-up cost on an international account and to a lesser extent lost automotive business including shutdown costs negatively impacted results in the quarter.
Although we expect the impact of the start-up is mostly behind us SCS performance in the third quarter will continue to be adversely impacted by lost business as well as sales and marketing and technology investments.
Year-over-year results starting in the fourth quarter are expected to improve due to new business signed over the last few quarters and a smaller impact from lost business.
Based on our outlook we are increasing our full year comparable EPS forecast to a range of $5.50 to $5.60.
This is up from the most recent forecast we provided in April of $5.40 to $5.55 and up from the original forecast range in February of $5.30 to $5.45.
The new forecast represents a year-over-year increase of 13% to 15%.
Our third quarter comparable EPS forecast is a $1.58 to $1.63 versus the prior year of $1.46.
Before we turn to Q&amp;A I want to mention that we’re launching a national brand ad campaign on Friday designed to raise awareness with senior decision makers about Ryder and the benefits of services we offer.
This is the first time in 20 years that Ryder has undertaken a companywide campaign like this.
We're kicking off the campaign by ringing the closing bell at NYSE on Friday and with the full page ad in the Wall Street Journal.
Keep your eyes up in select industry and general media for our new campaign which is one of many initiatives we're undertaking to drive higher rates of outsourcing over time.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
At this time I'll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
In order to give everyone an opportunity I would appreciate it if you keep your questions to two each including any follow-up questions.
If you would like to get back in the queue we would be happy to take as many questions as time permits.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question today is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
So I wanted to ask first about the rental fleet.
And you guys are growing that a little bit more even though I think you mentioned that utilization was down.
So want to understand the rationale there and how comfortable are you growing the fleet.
I know in the past it's created some issues.
What are you seeing differently this time that gives you comfort to accelerate that growth?  Yes.
I guess Scott I’d start with we’re in a healthy rental environment right now.
Utilization has been very high.
The only reason utilization is down is really primarily due to the fact that we had some deferred maintenance from the first quarter because of the weather and they got pushed off in the second quarter.
So we had more of those rental vehicles in the shop being maintained and not available to be rented.
So we're seeing a very healthy rental environment.
It actually is impacting even some of our lease customers who expect us to have rental vehicles available.
So we’re making a modest increase in the rental fleet in order to meet that demand.
So we feel pretty comfortable where we're at.
I think we’ve also as you know over the last several years have implemented other ways of adjusting the fleet including redeploying units from lease which we've been doing a lot of this year.
And this is just on the margins some additional units to help us meet the increased demand.
Yes got it.
Also it's targeted as I said at certain vehicle classes.
So it’s not a broad based increase across our fleet.
It’s going to be the class that we've seen the most demand and we see the opportunity to rent those units.
Okay that makes sense.
And then just in terms of leasing fleet getting some questions on why was it down slightly sequentially from the first quarter but you're still raising the full year expectations? Is that just a timing issue? And then in terms of that 2 500 for the year is that all based on sales momentum in the first half there? Are you assuming any additional sales momentum in the back? I guess I'm just wondering if there is up side to that 2 500 number.
Well let me start with the fleet and flat or slightly down this quarter.
That is just a timing issue.
Sales don’t always come in exactly prorated throughout the year so you have some ins and outs and you also have business that goes away throughout the year.
So this was in line with what we expected for the quarter even when we had the 2 000 -- the 2 500 is primarily due to what we've seen in the first half of the year.
We had a very strong quarter lease sales quarter and extremely strong June it was the highest sales month we've had in the last decade.
So that is really what's helping to drive that forecast for the full year still some stuff can happen in the second half lead times now are just over three months.
So clearly after you get pass this quarter you're going to run out of time.
So we probably still have a little bit more room that things can having but things can having on the up side things can having on the down side.
So we think the 2 500 is a good balance in order to place a forecast.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
First looked like in the quarter that early terminations trended down again.
What's your outlook for looking at your book of business on early terminations for the balance of the year should we continue to that see that sequential decline? Yes.
They are pretty low levels.
I think you could expect to see that kind of these lower levels if they really get to the point we're not very material.
And a lot of that is really reflection of economies improving some because usually early terminations could be because of bankruptcies and things that go on with on the customers side.
So I think it's safe to expect that to continue at these levels.
Okay.
And then can you refresh our memory as to how much longer do you have to kind of climb to the still higher trailer issue and when will that eventually go away in terms of the retirement of that equipment? Yes.
It still had probably a few years left because these are long live pieces of equipment.
But if -- when you say [grand] it's really it's a grand because we talk about fleet count operationally the margin impact is not very significant.
And I would say the trails even the revenue is not as significant.
So we still probably got a couple of years left of it where we're going to see we're going to continue to defleet some of those units because again remember these are vehicles that came with an acquisition they were written down by the company that we acquired from so they were profitable they had some profitability when we bought them but when it came time for renewal we never expected that we would renewing too many of them and that’s kind of what we are seeing.
So again grand because we are going to have to talk about them on fleet count but I wouldn’t worry too much in terms of earnings and revenue impact.
Okay.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Ross with Stifel.
Yes good morning.
Good morning David.
On the rental side how much of that strong demand that you saw in the second quarter and I guess continuing into the third quarter is coming from existing customers and how much is what I would call kind of the pure renters or looking for capacity and any other color you could add to kind of where that demand is coming from?  Yes I will let Dennis give you a little bit more color on that.
But I think what we have seen in the last -- and I would say this started remember this started early 2013 we started to see rental really strengthen since the beginning of 2013.
And I would say what we see as a continuation of that trend in an environment where the economy seems to be picking up a little bit people are running out and they are running trucks.
Some of those are our lease customers some of them are not.
So we are really seeing it on both ends with maybe a little bit more on the pure side than on the lease side.
But I would tell you this is an indication of some economic activity and we see that now really continuing to move in the right direction and continue to strengthen.
So Dennis you want to…  Yes David this is Dennis.
We saw pure rental up double digit in revenue but we also saw a lease support of strong also and that’s really reflective of I think a couple of things one is strong sales that we are having seeing lease units getting ready to come in and providing support there.
And second we're seeing a trend which is interesting and that is that a lot of these customers who maybe don't want to carry the same number of trucks that they have in the past for excess surge capacity where they would meet it with trucks that they have in their fleet to finding those new trucks to be so expensive that they prefer to go with the rental route.
So we're seeing demand come there also.
So to answer your question we are seeing double-digit growth with pure we're also seeing strong lease support and we're seeing this phenomena of customers who in the past have carried excess units for surge capacity we're now renting from us.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then just one mid on the -- gain on vehicle sales.
You talked about proceed per unit were up 15% 16% but units sold were down about 9%.
So I'm trying to kind of get from where you were on gain on sales last year to this year it seems like the gain on sales came up much more than it should have been? The gain on sale…..
You are saying the total amount? Yes the total amount is up 40% or so but it doesn't seem given what's going on the proceed per unit number units that it would have been up that much.
I just want to know if there is something else going on there? No that could be book value but I would probably look more at sales proceeds.
If you did the math around the sales proceeds it just lines up the way you would expect.
Proceeds are just a total dollars for getting on the sales of vehicles versus whatever the book value might be at any given time.
And remember David when you see proceeds going up like this you are going to get the benefit ultimately in residuals and lease margin overtime.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Hey good morning guys.
Just my line got dropped so this is covered I apologize.
When you look at the greater than expected full service fleet sales year-to-date can you talk about the dynamics both in terms of your success penetrating the private fleet market versus the trend that you are seeing with existing customers are you seeing more of the growth more of the upside from traction from sales efforts with regard to private fleet conversions or are you seeing growth absolute unit growth with existing customers?  Yes.
I would probably characterize it this way obviously it's both right.
We are clearly in an environment now where you are seeing the OEMs are building more trucks.
And they'll tell you that the vast majority of that is replacement.
So the customer who has 10 trucks is still asking for 11.
What we're getting is we're getting some more activity around customers that need trucks to replace trucks that they -- that are may be aged.
And then we're getting we're making progress on some of these conversions again we mentioned it on the script but a third of the add that we had in the fleet count came from conversions.
These are customers that were in ownership and are now doing lease.
So these initiates that we've really been hammering around total cost of ownership total we put in the hands of our sales people that are really having some nice success some of the sales and marketing efforts and I have talked about briefly but this ad campaign the we're going to put out there is also to help drive that.
I think we're seeing that continue to play out along with these macro trends that we've been talking about for a while.
Those continue to be key drivers to customers who have to make decisions around the next vehicle that they are going to purchase or lease.
So I would tell you clearly it's a healthier environment than it was a year ago from an overall market.
But we are certainly making some good progress and a good part of that contribution is from the efforts that we have around converting fleets from ownership to leasing.
Good and then Art to clarify the comment a moment ago about gains on sale.
Should we assume the second quarter run rate through the balance of the year based on what you are seeing from fundamental standpoint and then all things equal as we look into ‘15 that gains on sale should fall but it would be offset by a lower depreciation expense as residuals presumably would marked higher is that generally correct?  Yes.
Ben I would say if you think about the first half we have had gains of about 60 odd million year-to-date so we are forecasting that kind of range directionally in the second half.
So it won’t be as high as Q2 but it should comparable to the first half.
And then to your point as you look out into ‘15 gains you would think would come down somewhat but right now we haven’t done all that work but there will be some offset from better residual values as we sit here today.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Hey Ben this is Rob.
Another thing to keep in mind as it relates to used vehicle sales clearly we are in a strong robust used vehicle market and environment.
And I think what’s important to keep in mind is that we are still entering a period where we expect overall inventory of used vehicles to continue to drop right because our holdings period is six to seven years today we are selling 2008 to 2009 as we get into next year we are going to still have 2009s to sell and 2010.
So you really didn’t get a pick up in new vehicles that were produced until 2011 really.
So I would expect used vehicle inventories to continue to tighten over the next couple of years and that bodes well for the market and for the overall pricing environment.
So we'll have to see that all play out but I think that we're in a robust market but there is still some room to run here at these pricing levels.
And just to finalize [the proxy] you benefit not only from healthy used pricing environment but also I would imagine from just a lasing services perspective as well it helps on both fronts within your business? Absolutely because certainly all these -- this type of an environment believes into our residual value calculation.
So as we continue to see these healthy used vehicle pricing years come into that five year average our overall residuals that we're able to sustain both from an account standpoint and from a pricing standpoint will also benefit making our product more and more competitive.
Hey Ben it's Dennis.
Just one final thing I would add is when you look at inventory levels down around 6 300 and as Robert said you expected to stay there if not tighten more.
We're obviously driving more retail activity as a result.
So we'll keep pushing the proceeds up.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Great thanks good morning.
Congratulations on the quarter.
I guess Robert in the prepared remarks you talked about the FMS margins on a full year basis getting closure to 12% and kind of getting back to the pre-recession levels.
How do you think about the margin progression going forward it sounds like the growth is going to be a component on top of that? But do you have an idea of what the cadence margin improvement can be after you hit 12% and what are some of the main factors that are going to be driving that? Well if you think about it over the last several years we've been doing 70 to 80 basis points a year.
And if you exclude some of the used vehicle sales performance this quarter that’s kind of where cliff that we are at.
So I would expect this to be able to continue to benefit from used vehicle sales performance over the next certainly the next several quarters at least if not beyond that.
And then I would expect us to continue to see margin improvement as we grow the top line and we are able to grow the fleet.
Remember we are targeting now 2 500 units in the full service lease fleet.
We think there is opportunity to go; if we crack the code if you will on these large non-outsource market we can get even well beyond that.
So I would say just looking at historicals you are looking at 70-80 basis points.
And again the growth will dictate what else we can do beyond that.
Right.
So Todd those are going to be the factors we have talked about obviously.
Fleet growth is key the new products on-demand and the like as well as continuing good residuals and then we got to look at the cost side of the equation; also to manage that side of the business.
Okay.
So if you see if you are able to see let’s call it lease fleet growth somewhere in the low single digits the 2% to 3% and those other variables are kind of held constant if 70 basis points give or take of margin improvements realistic?  Yes I guess without laying out our 2015 guidance I think over a longer period of time yes I think those are reasonable metrics.
Everything being equal.
Okay good that helps.
And then just for a follow-up on kind of the question about the cadence of the lease growth this year 2 500 units.
I guess is my math correct that you have done 500 organic units year-to-date so you have got 2 000 in the back half of the year; is that a 1 000 per quarter? And then the visibility on that are those signed leases at this point that you have in place and you just haven’t put the assets into service or is there other pieces that are factored into that? Well there is a few things right.
There are signed leases yes we got those.
There could be some additional leases that we would expect in the third quarter that could impact -- that are going to impact that number.
Now those could be can end up being more than what we have in or maybe less.
And then also what we don't have is lost business.
We don't know what customers will be reducing their fleets in certain parts of the country and that could work against us.
So there is still some unknowns there that could go on the upside or the downside.
But right now our best estimate is 2 500.
Okay.
Is the math right that it's 2 000 now in the back half of the year… Yes the math is right 2 000.
Okay.
Just lastly this is just a comment.
Any time you guys want to come to Cleveland and see LeBron James you're more than welcome.
We're rebuilding without him.
Believe me we've done that.
Thank you.
The next question is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning everyone.
I want to just ask on the conversion rate from rental releasing how is the sort of pace compared to prior cycles? And is there any reason to think that the conversion rate should be any different from prior cycles? Yes actually it's a good point.
It's something we've been trying to kind of figure out is -- this environment is different.
I think we've had an extended recovery period here and a muted recovery from the 2008 recession.
So the rental being sort of the spot or the place that companies go and there is more uncertainty rental has taken a much longer road up in this recovery than we've ever seen.
So it’s hard to predict exactly what it's going to do.
I think clearly rental is still running very strong.
And this is in an environment where the GDP has not really taken off.
So I would expect if we get into periods where GDP starts to grow at 3% may be 3 plus that's an environment where rental should really strengthen not weaken because customers are going to have demand for moving product that they won't be able to fill.
So I think the transition of when they decide to go to lease is going to be dictated on more and more on confidence in the economy.
I think since the middle of last year we started to see some improvement in that and lease sales really began to strengthen as you know middle last year.
So we continue to see that we continue to see that but I wouldn't say it's an accelerated -- we would like to see is -- over time start to see GDP growing a little bit more robustly confidence in the economy and that's when you start to get then a larger scale of customers making that transition.
So Dennis do you want to add to that?  Yes Robert.
Thomas I want to make sure we get definitions right because we use this term rental to lease in kind of two contexts.
First we'll talk about an asset management move where we take our rental fleet and you really look at it as used equipment.
And we open that up to lease customers.
So you may have a customer who is renting the unit and then you have a new lease customer where we'll take that rental unit and lease it to that new customer and that's asset management play where we’ll often times backfill that used piece of equipment in the rental fleet when rental demand is strong; when it's not strong we won't backfill and we'll de-fleet the runner fleet.
So it's a nice asset management move.
Then you got the rental customer who is currently renting within the size to lease from us and that in fact is increased year-over-year.
So rental to lease with an asset management play has been steady every month; it's pretty consistent in terms of our asset management moves.
But the rental customers who then convert to lease has actually increased year-over-year.
That’s really helpful.
And then just can you comment on the tightness of the trucking market and to what extent you could actually see maybe upside to the rental rate sort of guidance that you highlighted earlier in the year? Well the tightness of the transport market does help us I guess on rental allows us to -- we see some of that but again a lot of our customers are on the private fleet side in addition to the transport side.
The tightening there definitely helps private fleets and definitely helps Ryder.
We implemented a price increase in rental Dennis was it in end of the -- beginning of the second quarter price increase? Right correct.
And as you see that’s being reflected in the pricing increase that we’ve seen.
So we expect that to kind of -- there is still a little bit [bleeding] that needs to happen.
We think that’s really going to hold throughout the balance of the year.
And we see continued tightening; obviously there could be opportunities for more but right now that’s sort of we are in the forecast.
Okay.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
So most of my -- the fleet management questions have been answered but so maybe one for Robert on supply side.
When you look at I understand the start up costs that were in the second quarter a bit over in the third quarter and you’ve got some lost automotive business.
But when you look at the pipeline of new business in your division yes what sort of the general lead time on that pipeline? I mean is there enough potential new business wins in the third quarter that could offset the start up costs or is it all any new business you bring in now will be accretive to maybe fourth quarter but really 2015? Yes hi.
This is John Williford.
Yeah first of all we sold a record amount of new business in the first half and we have a very very strong pipeline.
So we are going to see strong growth eventually.
The lost automotive business we talked about that came off in June.
Basically two automotive trucking accounts that came off in June that will be about a two to three point headwind but we have a lot of business coming on.
So you'll see the growth rate dip a little bit in the third quarter and start to come back in the fourth quarter and start to get I would expect to be very strong into 2015.
The lead time varies by the type of project and we've run a lot of projects in dedicated it's a little shorter there.
And but we've also we're winning a lot of projects in CPG and high-tech and really have a lot of new business schedule to come on in the second half of the year to the extend you'll start to really see the impact by Q4.
Okay.
And is at a really strong is that kind of low-double-digits or how should we frame kind of once this is really ramped up in the beginning of '15? Well it's hard to come out with the 2015 forecast right now.
Sure.
So it's a little too early for that.
But I guess last year we've sold a lot of new business now we've sold a lot more than that.
Sure.
So we feel very confident about that long-term prospects.
Okay.
So stronger than what you've seen in the last few quarters.
And then Art one for you actually maybe just kind of 1.5 for you.
The leverage ratio you said was going to trend down is the year of runs on.
Is there incentive or any leverage you can pull to kind of push that towards higher end if your target range right now we are thinking this current financing environment the (inaudible) incentive to kind of lever off as much as you can and return and boost equity returns.
But am I missing something on how fluid that is?  Well it can move around John somewhat obviously our target at the beginning of the year was to get in around 230 I think it was.
So as we sit here today maybe a little bit higher than that we have been buying back more shares than we thought when we entered year.
Also the number is subject to vagaries of pension accounting as you know and so right now pension is probably a negative the discount rate has dropped 50-60 basis points this year.
So we would expect that could have some pressure on our target leverage if you will.
So we are kind of trying to balance that with where we stand from a free cash flow perspective.
But the all time down just like 275 is given the pension is not realistic.
It’s still within our target range I think as we sit here today we are envisioning more in that 225 to 250 range in the near-term.
Okay.
And then on the buyback now of given back but the stock up here near of 90 bucks looks like it like we continue to trend higher any thoughts on splitting the stock here you are at kind of all time high here and just from a liquidity standpoint does it make sense to split the stock?  I think right now we are comfortable where we are I mean it’s questionable what that really does longer term for us we have very much of an institutional base of investors I mean I see the value in that for us right now.
Great fair enough.
Thanks so much.
Alright thanks John.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Well thank you good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Kevin.
John you talked little bit about losing the auto business and the SCS pipeline being full and replacing it that lost auto business I think you mentioned two trucking customers was it lower margin business and you guys kind of had maybe okay to see it walk away? Did it go to another mode and the business you're possibly replacing it with would it be higher margin business? How should we think about that? Yes.
First of all automotive dedicated business has a little lower margin on average than our Ryder dedicated business.
And these accounts were a little lower margin than average for auto dedicated.
If you can follow all that.
So yeah they were lowish margin accounts that were each unique situations totally had to do with price we got to the end of the contract terms on them.
They were rebid at buy I would characterize as substitute competitors at much lower rates.
And there were situations that I don't see repeating that anything can I guess happen in the future.
But I don't see us having similar risks with other business anywhere in our pipeline.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And you guys talked earlier about the increased capital spend on certain commercial rental vehicles.
Could you maybe elaborate a little bit more what type of vehicles you're seeing the most strength the greatest demand? And then are you seeing some of The strong commercial rental demand and this type of equipment spill over into lease? First let me just clarify that I think it was in the prepared remarks but I want to make sure everybody got it that of the 100 million that were increasing half of that is really to replace vehicles that went from the rental fleet as Dennis articulated went from the rental fleet into a lease customer.
So we're spending some additional money to replace those units that are now running with a contracted lease customer.
The other half is really to increase the fleet size.
And in terms of the types of vehicles Dennis the types of vehicles that we're adding to rental fleet?  Yes I mean it's a combination of tractors and trucks.
But I will say that tractor demand in particular has been high but also trucks as we look at it early in the year we added to the tractor fleet and so to answer your question Kevin its buying trucks.
But again the tractor demand has been high also.
Its really across the board.
Okay great thanks for your time this morning.
All right thank you Kevin.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Thank you hey guys.
Hey Jeff.
Lebron plays in New York too.
Two thought questions with the stock was down a little earlier on the initial reports this morning it's come back nicely.
And I think some of the disconnect is if I take your comments about the 12% margin in FMS in theory that would add about $0.40 annualized to an earnings number.
And if I take John's view on some of the short-term headwinds in logistics it would still imply earnings almost $0.20 $0.25 higher and yet the guidance is almost flattish given that the results were a little bit above what consensus was looking for.
I am going to probably answer the question myself but how do I bridge this gap in terms of reconciliation.
I know tax rate if it goes up 100 basis points that's a dime annualized tax rate has been running 37% I know the beginning your guidance was kind of 35% to 36%.
Can you help me reconcile the difference here?  Well I am not sure… I can reconcile all those.
Let me just reiterate sort of what we're looking after the second half we are looking at approaching 12% full year approaching a 12% EBT for FMS approaching.
So you have that right.
In supply chain as John articulated in the third quarter we’re going to see some headwinds from some lost business in automotive and so that’s going to hurt us the year-over-year comps.
And as we get into the fourth quarter we expect that to subside with some of the new business coming on.
So clearly still some challenges versus what we had originally forecasted but year-over-year comps should look much better.
So that’s the combination of those two things is what’s really driving our the full year range that we gave.
So I am not sure if you’ve captured all the pluses and minuses in that and especially on the supply chain side but that’s really what makes up the guidance.
Okay.
Should I be using a higher tax rate just given what we’ve seen in the first half of the year on the non-deductible losses? Our full year tax rate I think starting the year it was about 35.7.
I want to say right now we’re probably up a little bit some of it due to the international lawsuits.
But I think full year Jeff we’re looking at a 36 tax rate so you probably want to think about it will typically higher in the first half so we’ve been 37% to first half second half we’re looking in that 35% range.
All right.
And second question again a thought question the cost of new vehicles is materially higher than it was a cycle ago I don’t know whether it’s 50% 60% it kind of depends on what you’re buying and that’s part of the reason the CapEx has been so high and the free cash flow hasn’t really started yet.
You mentioned okay our spread is now a 100 basis points and our rates are now up almost 3% on full service lease vehicles.
Is that enough to recapture the additional capital you have to outlay for new equipment.
How much after we deduct residual values over life.
Are you using up and kind of what type of return do you need to generate to recapture that higher equipment costs over the life of the trucks? Yeah we moreover there is another thing our play is each year during the six year lease of a vehicle there is a CPI increase that's implemented based on what's going on with CPI.
So even though it's a 40% increase in net vehicle investment.
The rate by the time we get to the end of it's like already has built in some additional cost increases that already been captured in the rate.
So that's why you wouldn't expect I'm going to see a 40% increase.
So yeah the rates that we're seeing as you might imagine appropriate for this type of an increase.
Remember when we do price I mean run a discounted cash flow on every vehicle and we look at what we think our maintenance costs are going to be we build in a residual value and we look for a positive return and the type of spread that you just articulated.
So that's how the numbers fallout.
Okay.
Guys thanks and congratulations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Thanks and congrats on the quarter guys.
Thank you Justin.
Robert I guess first question.
I wanted to ask about the on-demand maintenance business it seems to be getting a lot of traction and I know it's a small piece of the pie today.
But longer term where do you envision that operating going.
Is there a longer term target you have in mind whether it's a certain number of customers or revenue contribution that you are shooting for? You know what somebody asked about that.
Because there is a lot of exciting things going on there.
I'll let Dennis expand on it.
But yeah we view this as a really important part of our growth story going forward still a small piece of the total business but an important part of the growth story.
And again we haven’t really even officially rolled it out we are still doing some work.
Dennis' team is doing some work behind the scenes to work on process and some technology changes we need to make to be able to do this at a larger scale.
We think we will be done with that by the end of the year maybe next year and we will be in a position to really roll it out more broadly.
But I will let Dennis give you some of the updates on what we have seen so far this year.
Yeah Justin I will give you a number just to give you a feeling for how it’s going.
We started the year with about 10 customers and we told you we said about 20 customers by the end of the year we are currently at 25 customers and we will focus on the larger customers who are looking for help with our outsource maintenance and when you look at the difficulties I will call it the complexities associated with the new truck technology we can really help these customers out.
And so as they are coming to us what we are doing is making sure that we have got all of our processes set up to handle the transactional nature of this business and to your point we are getting a lot of traction with it.
We haven’t launched it in a meaningful way because we are waiting to make sure that we have got everything ready to go in terms of our internal processes where it’s not this fixed monthly dollar amount it’s a pay by the drink nature in terms of the billing process and so forth.
So we are getting all that in place and I think you are going to see from us by the end of this beginning in next year a more significant launch and I think what’s most exciting is once customers get a taste of what Ryder can do what we are finding is that they are looking at for example buying fuel from us.
They are looking at renting trucks from us.
Frankly we're starting to see rental demand out of these customers as they bring their unit in they need to leave it for a period of time they are renting trucks from us.
And they are asking us to look at potentially doing what we call an on-sight maintenance facility for them.
And ultimately again as they get a feel we think it leads to a Full Service Lease relationship.
So we're very excited and there is a lot of traction on the product line.
That's great.
I appreciate it that's helpful color.
Second question real quick I know it's been a long call but could you talk about the number of trucks in your Full Service Lease business that you feel like could make sense in the dedicated contract today? Yes.
We have historically talked about 15% of those vehicles are with customers that have us a size that's more applicable to a dedicated.
However it could go a little bit beyond that if we expand it to maybe even a little fleets that might be a little smaller.
But probably a good roll of thumb would be about 15% of the fleet.
Okay great.
I appreciate the time.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
The maintenance that was deferred at FMS from 1Q into 2Q.
How much of a headwind was that in terms of margin? 2.5 million.
About some about $0.03 for the quarter.
Okay.
And you are caught up on maintenance at this point of time? Yes generally we are.
There is still a little bit trickling through but we're generally done with that.
Got you.
We've heard more from some of your competitors on the dedicated side regarding driver shortages and just in general across trucking but driver shortages hindering a fleet growth and b also pushing up wages..
I am just curious to hear your commentary in terms of how driver shortages here may be impacting your dedicated operations.
I guess a couple of points first.
The fact that it's getting tougher is good because more people are going to want to outsource it.
So we view that challenge as a positive thing.
We do play in the same market that everybody else does for driver so certainly we feel some of that as we go on recruit drivers.
But we feel we are in a great position to do that because we have got a great recruiting network and we've got we're positioned very well with almost 6 000 commercial drivers that are our employees.
On the wage side that we're probably in a little bit of a different situation probably more favorable in that a lot of our -- all of our contracts are dedicated they are tied -- the driver wages tend to get adjusted in agreement with our contract and with our customer.
So we don't necessarily just give increases and get a squeeze on margin certainly over a longer period of time that’s usually pass through.
So I'll let John give you more color around that but I think that's an important differentiator from what you hear may be from some of the other competitors.
Yes sure.
Absolutely there has been a structural driver shortage for some time.
We expected it to get worse as the economy got stronger and as we got into the summer where there are more construction jobs.
And it has gotten worse.
I think as Robert said this is a good thing for us and it's driven some of this new business that I've talked about you can't always be 100% sure why someone converts the private fleet but we're seeing a lot more of it and a lot of the customers we're talking to both the new wins and the ones in our pipeline re talking to us at least partly because they are having trouble with drivers.
We’ve seen our turnover rate tick up a little bit but it’s very low compared to the industry and it’s something we think we’re very good at.
There has historically been very little profit impact from this as Robert points out that we pass it on.
There is a little now as it’s ticked up and it’s probably a little noise in our number like maybe $1 million to $2 million a quarter from the higher turnover where we replaced drivers with lease drivers who are little more expensive.
But that’s something that it’s in our numbers and its impact is dwarfed by the positive impact of growth.
Okay.
So it’s fair to say you feel given the current environment relatively confident that you’ll be able to keep your turnover down be able to attract drivers and this drivers shortage situation shouldn’t be a hindrance in terms of meaningfully growing the dedicated fleet from here? Yes.
I mean the way I think that we have to be better at recruiting and retention than our private fleet potential customers and then our competitors.
And if we are we’re going to grow and add value.
And so we do a lot of things that are focused on that at being better at recruiting and retention and then the worse the drivers shortages really the better for us.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from [Robert Reitzes Broad Arch Capital].
Yes hi.
Thanks for taking the call.
I’ll make it easy for you.
If you were looking back a year ago and you saw -- and you knew business was this good would that be surprising to you how good the business is a year ago when you were looking at business? In other words from your vantage point do you think things are a lot better than you thought maybe 6 months to 12 months ago or about as you predicted? I think the short answer is things are better than what we would have expected a year ago.
Certainly the activity around freight movement and rental has been better than what we expected.
Certainly look at the truck OEMs and manufacturers; they’re exceeding what they had originally expected in terms of new trucks being built.
So the environment in our industry in general is better than what I think any of us expected at the beginning of the year.
And then I would say in addition to that I think I’m also very pleased with the progress that we’re making on the strategic initiatives that we have around getting after these non-outsourced fleets and the non-outsourced supply chain activity that we feel is really the long-term growth strategy that is going to get us where we need to be.
So yes the short answer is yes.
The environment is better than what we had originally expected.
Thanks for the update.
Okay.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez for closing comments.
Well great.
Well thank you I think we're few minute past the top of the hour.
I want to thank everybody for being on the call.
And I want to again remind you that we're going to be launching our new ad campaign on Friday.
So be on look out for some Ryder ads in the Wall Street Journal some commercials on the golf channel.
So this is all part of our effort to get out to the see sweet and make sure people are aware all of the different services that we provide at Ryder and I believe that we can help business grow.
So thanks for everything and have a safe day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Ryder Systems Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen-only mode until after the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
And welcome to Ryder’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I’d like to remind you that during this presentation you will hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning’s earnings release and in Ryder’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today’s call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we’ll recap our third quarter 2014 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
Then we’ll open the call for questions.
With that let’s turn to an overview of our third quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.63 for the third quarter of 2014 up from $1.46 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.17 or 12%.
Third quarter comparable results exclude non-operating and other pension-related costs.
We came in at the top-end of our third quarter forecast range of $1.58 to $1.63.
Our performance was driven by Fleet Management where we realized strong used vehicle sales and commercial rental results as well as higher full service lease results.
Strength in FMS was partially offset by Supply Chain which was expected to be down this quarter.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up by 5% to a record $1.42 billion in the third quarter.
Revenue growth was driven by Fleet Management which accelerated to 7% growth.
Page 5 includes some additional financial information for the third quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 800 000 shares to $53 million this reflects the pause in our anti-dilutive share repurchase program last year.
In December 2013 we announced a new 2 million share anti-dilutive repurchase program and started buying under the program in early February.
During the third quarter we bought 143 000 shares at an average price of $89.85.
To-date we’ve purchased 1.2 million shares at an average price of $78.90 under this program.
Excluding non-operating pension cost the comparable tax rate was 35.4% above the prior year of 34.1%.
The increased rate reflects the lower non-deductible items in the prior year as well as prior year tax law change benefits.
The higher than expected tax rate resulted in a negative $0.01 impact versus our forecast.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics on a year-to-date basis.
Operating revenue was up 5% to $4.1 billion.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $3.98 up 13% from $3.53 in the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital narrowed to 90 basis points down from 100 basis points in the prior year driven primarily by lower leverage.
On a full year basis we now expect the spread to widen to 100 basis points to 110 basis points above our prior estimate of our 100 basis points.
The improvement in the outlook is driven primarily by higher projected earnings and lower capital.
I’ll turn now to page 7 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 7% driven mainly by growth in full service lease and commercial rental.
This is the highest organic revenue growth rate we’ve seen in FMS in over a decade.
Full service lease revenue increased 5% due to higher rate on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology and growth in the fleet size.
On a year-to-date basis the lease fleet increased by 2 400 vehicles including the planned reduction of 800 low margin trailers in the UK.
Excluding the UK trailer impact the lease fleet grew by 3 200 units year-over-year.
Sequentially from the first quarter the lease fleet increased by 500 vehicles.
We remain on track for full service lease fleet growth excluding UK trailers of 2 500 vehicles.
We continue to see strong lease sales activity in recent months providing nice momentum for lease fleet growth into 2015.
Miles driven per vehicles per day on U.S.
lease power units were up 2% compared to the prior year and are running at normal historical levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 as a result of higher replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down by one month sequentially or five months since the third quarter of last year.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 3% primarily reflecting the benefit of a significant new contract signed earlier in the year.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew organically by 2 700 vehicles from the prior year reflecting the sales activity.
Contract related maintenance increased 14% from the prior year reflecting higher ancillary maintenance work.
Included in contract related maintenance are 6 200 vehicles serviced during the quarter under on-demand maintenance agreements.
This represents a nearly 60% increase from the prior year.
With 30 customers signed to-date we continue to see strong interest in this service.
Commercial rental revenue was up 11% driven by improved global pricing and higher demand in North America.
The average rental fleet grew by 7% versus the prior year and 2% sequentially.
Rental utilization on power units was 78% below the prior year of 79.7% but at strong absolute level.
Global pricing on power units was up 4% which is slightly below our expectations.
This is primarily due to higher number of rental vehicles used by national accounts and customers waiting for new leased equipment to be delivered both which are typical rented at lower rates.
In used vehicle sales we saw strong demand in pricing.
I’ll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall FMS earnings increased due to significantly higher used vehicle pricing strong rental performance and better Full Service Lease results.
Commercial rental performance benefited from solid demand and higher pricing on a larger fleet.
Better lease results reflect vehicle residual value benefits and fleet growth.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased 25% reflecting better used vehicle pricing and leverage on revenue growth.
FMS earnings as the percent of operating revenue were 13% up 190 basis points from the prior year.
I’ll turn now to Supply Chain on page 8.
Operating revenue grew 3% due to higher volumes and new business.
New business benefited our CPG and retail industrial and high-tech industry verticals.
We saw volume improvement across all industry verticals and in dedicated services.
Excluding the impact of lower fuel cost operating revenue growth would be up 4%.
The third quarter growth rate reflects the impact of the lost automotive dedicated business we discussed last quarter.
SCS earnings before taxes were down 9%.
The decrease reflects lost business including shutdown cost.
We also incurred additional start-up cost on the international distribution management account we highlighted earlier this year although the impact was significantly less than in the second quarter.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 6.6% down 90 basis points from the prior year.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 reflects our year-to-date results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won’t review these results in detail but I’ll just highlight the bottom-line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $212 million up 15% from the prior year.
At this point I’ll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 11; year-to-date gross capital expenditures were $1.74 billion up nearly $240 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our rental fleet in light of strong demand.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of around $400 million up by $60 million from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher sales prices per vehicle.
During the third quarter we also realized proceeds of $126 million from a planned sale leaseback of revenue earning equipment purchased earlier this year.
We executed a larger than planned transaction this quarter due to attractive lease financing rates.
Year-to-date net capital expenditures increased by $55 million to $1.2 billion.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of $975 million year-to-date up $85 million or 10% from the prior year.
This increase was driven primarily by higher cash-based earnings and lower working capital needs partially offset by the timing of annual pension contributions.
We generated $1.54 billion of total cash year-to-date up about $250 million from the prior year primarily due to the sale-leaseback higher operating cash flow and higher sales proceeds.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by almost $250 million to $1.74 billion year-to-date.
Company had negative free cash flow of $197 million year-to-date compared to negative $206 million the prior year.
Higher planned spending on rental vehicles compared to the prior year was offset by the sale-leaseback transaction stronger used vehicle proceeds and higher cash from operations.
Our full year outlook for free cash flow was unchanged at negative $300 million.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of $4.7 billion increased by almost $420 million from year-end 2013 total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of quarter were 237% up from 226% at the end of 2013.
We now anticipate that leverage at year-end will increase to around the midpoint of our target range of 225% to 275% this primarily reflects the higher pension equity charge due to recent market conditions.
Equity at the end of the quarter was just under $2 billion up by $86 million from year-end 2013 as increased earnings more than offset share repurchases and dividends.
As many of you know Ryder’s pension plans were frozen by the company several years ago.
We continue to take actions to reduce the size and potential future volatility of our pension plan obligations.
As part of the strategy we recently offered approximately 11 000 former employees a one-time option to receive a lump sum distribution of their vested benefits by the end of 2014.
The offer covers approximately 20% or $370 million of our U.S.
pension plan obligations.
As a result of this offer Ryder will incur a non-cash pension settlement charge during the fourth quarter which will be excluded from comparable earnings.
The amount of the actual charge will depend on the acceptance rate of the offer but is estimated approximately $0.75 to $1 per share assuming an acceptance rate in the 40% to 50% range.
The funded status of the plan is not expected to materially change following the distribution.
The cash distribution will be funded by the assets of the pension plan and will not impact Ryder’s balance sheet leverage.
At this point I’ll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results from our asset management area.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 5 800 vehicles significantly down from 8 200 units in the prior year and 500 units below the second quarter.
Used vehicle inventory is at the low-end of our target range of 6 000 to 8 000 vehicles.
Pricing for used vehicles was strong for both tractors and trucks.
Compared with the third quarter of 2013 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 16% for tractors and up 14% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 1% and truck pricing was down 2%.
We saw improved pricing in all used vehicle sales channels.
We’ve also shifted more of our sales to retail instead of wholesale now that inventories are at normalized levels following elevated inventories in the prior years.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease terms decreased versus last year by around 360 units or 7% and remains below recessionary levels.
Early terminations of leased vehicles increased slightly by about 100 units and also remained well below recessionary levels.
I will turn now to page 17 and cover our outlook and forecast.
Our full year earnings outlook remains on track due to a strong performance from Fleet Management Solutions partially offset by lower supply chain results.
We are seeing strong performance in both used vehicle sales and rental in October and we expect these trends to continue.
As previously announced we increased rental capacity in vehicle classes with high demand by purchasing a modest number of new units.
We expect our full year average rental fleet to grow by 6% up from our previously forecast 5%.
Our year end fleet should grow by 5% up from our prior forecast of 4%.
In terms of pricing we now expect full year rental rates to be up 4%.
We’re seeing strong and early demand for rental trucks to support the holiday shipping season.
As such fleet utilization is up in October and we expect improved year-over-year comparisons for the full quarter.
We continue to expect improvement in our full service lease results largely reflecting the benefit of higher residuals and growth in the lease fleet.
We’re on track with our prior forecast for lease fleet growth of around 2 500 vehicles excluding UK trailers.
New lease sales remained strong in recent months which provide nice momentum for continued fleet growth next year.
In contract maintenance we saw a nice revenue and fleet growth in the quarter as a result of the large deals signed earlier in the year.
We’re also encouraged by the strong market interest in our new products such as on-demand maintenance.
This year we’ve continued to selectively add new on-demand customers as we develop the processes and technology needed to support this product.
We’re targeting a broader roll-out of on-demand in 2015 which should result in stronger revenue growth for this product in the second half of next year.
We continue to expect full year FMS operating margin to approach pre-recessionary levels of 12% this year.
This partly reflects strong used vehicle pricing which doesn’t impact revenue but benefits earnings.
Looking ahead we expect less benefit from used vehicle gains but continue to believe there is further upside at FMS margins driven by stronger residual values fleet growth cost management and other items.
In Supply Chain we expect revenue and earnings to continue to be impacted by business lost earlier in the year.
Fourth quarter operating revenue growth should be slightly below the third quarter growth rate reflecting a delay in some new business signing but is expected to improve as we move through 2015.
Although revenue comparisons will be down in the fourth quarter earnings comparisons are expected to improve from the third quarter as we get passed recent start-up and shutdown cost.
Based on our outlook we’re raising the low-end of our full year comparable EPS forecast to a range of $5.55 to $5.60 from the prior forecast of $5.50 to $5.60.
The new forecast represents a year-over-year increase of 14% to 15% and is above the original forecast from February of $5.30 to $5.45.
Our fourth quarter comparable EPS forecast is $1.56 to $1.61 versus the prior year of $1.35 an increase of 16% to 19%.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
In order to give everyone an opportunity I’d appreciate it if you keep it to two questions each including any follow-up questions.
If you’d like to get back in the queue we’d be happy to take as many questions as time permits.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And the first question comes from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
And thank you for taking my questions.
Robert I just wanted to make sure I understand the comments on the lease fleet expectations; the guidance is still for 2 500 units organically excluding the UK trailers.
Our math is that you got about 1 000 on the books through the third quarter so that implies 1 500 into the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about the timing of that and why it’s kind of a little bit more fourth quarter weighted than maybe what we were expecting in the middle part of the year? Yes.
Good morning Todd.
Your math is right.
We’re 1 000 into the 2 500.
We’re expecting 1 500 in the fourth quarter.
It really has to do with the timing of new business signed and when the lost business comes in.
If you recall last year fourth quarter we also had a pretty big uplift at the end of the year.
So I can’t say that happens every year but it just have to do with the timing of when customer sign the new business.
So nothing unusual or no kind of change in what you’re seeing it’s just it’s the timing of kind of when it actually gets into the fleet? Yes.
We saw -- I mean if you recall throughout the year we talked about the second quarter was a very strong sales year.
I mean sales quarter.
We talked about that last quarter and remember we said that June was the record -- was a record sales quarter.
So you do have some of that that kind of usually takes 90 days to kick in and that will -- we’ll see that kicking in the fourth quarter.
So that would be probably the only data point that you can look at.
Other than that we still saw very healthy sales in the third quarter and we’re expecting also continued healthy sales in the fourth.
Okay.
And then my second question on the rental pricing commentary.
It sounds like from the prepared remarks that there were some mix issues during the quarter and I know that you’ve increased the rental fleet with the vehicle types where there is the most demand it feels like that the rental pricing expectations for the year are a little bit lower than where they were previously.
Is that mostly mix or can you talk about what’s happening with the rental pricing environment? Thank you.
Yes it’s really all mix.
As we mentioned we are renting more to national customers which -- with those customers you’re going to have a slightly lower rate but you’re going to have better utilizations they’re going to take the units for a longer period of time.
So that’s really the primary.
Dennis [is there] any color on what we’re seeing in rental today and how that’s shaping up? No just the national customers Todd we’re seeing strong demand from them.
And you’ll tend to have higher utilization but a lower rate with them.
Also the lease support activity is strong.
We have customers who are waiting their lease product to come in and then we’ve got rental units with them and they will be renting at lower rates also.
So it’s an excess driving.
And Dennis is there any color as to why the national customers have been so strong recently? It’s seasonal.
And we were seeing a lot of the major national customers who are taking units sooner as we prepare for the holiday season.
So that’s really what we’re seeing.
It’s just an uptick in national in general.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thanks a lot for the time this morning.
Thanks Todd.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
I guess if we could just think about 2015 for the moment and I’m just interested in terms of learning how you’re going to balance the dynamics between rental and lease into ‘15; it sounds pretty clear that you have momentum on the full-service lease fleet side.
But what is an early approach or just kind of a summary of how you think about the business Robert thinking about this cycle balancing rental demand which remains healthy but certainly there is probably a bias toward converting rental customers to longer-term leases plus you have marketing campaigns and several initiatives to help grow that lease fleet in ‘15 and beyond.
So maybe just talk about how you think about those two products comingled as we head into ‘15 and kind of look through the balance of how long this maybe? Yes.
I’d say Ben without getting too deep into 2015 I think it’s clear that we’re going to really be looking for growth in both.
We’re going to be looking for as the economy continues to move at least in the right direction rentals should continue to be pretty healthy going into 2015.
We still haven’t made our pick yet of exactly what we’re going to do in terms of growth but if things continue the way they are I would expect continued growth in rental and in full service lease it’s what we’ve seen the last now year and a quarter at least where lease sales have really strengthened.
Customers are feeling more confident about being able to sign up to longer-term leases because there is a little more confident in the economy and also the fuel efficiency benefits that they’re getting from the vehicles is helping us.
Marry that with the efforts we have around converting ownership accounts and non-outsourced accounts into full service leasing those things are just in the early stages still.
So I would expect us to really continue to see increased growth in full service lease and in our other product lines.
So I guess the simple answer is we’re going to be looking for growth in both.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then I guess John congratulations on the announced retirement.
Robert can you give us an update in terms of what you’re thinking about the leadership transition within SCS maybe just an update on from the announcement a couple of months ago? Sure.
We’re fortunate that John has given us an extended time to be able to make sure that we make the right decisions around that.
We are interviewing external candidates and also internal candidates and we feel confident that we’ll have a person in place certainly well before John’s retirement date of end of March but we’re still trying to find a clone for John but haven’t found that technology yet.
Well done.
Thanks for the time.
Thanks.
Next is Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Hey morning everyone.
Good morning.
Hey Robert looking at FMS the NBT margins at 13% in the quarter very strong but you’re kind of in the last couple of quarters back to those pre-recession levels.
How do we think about FMS going forward? Are we kind of at a peak margin level and we’re going to be relied on top-line growth or is portions of that business still underperforming and can raise that level of performance? Yes.
No I think growth is certainly going to be a factor going forward on earnings expansion.
As we look to the fourth quarter and certainly to 2015 we expect less of the benefit to come from gains and more of it to come from the core business the core product lines if you will.
But you also have to keep in mind that is as used vehicle sales has continued to strengthen that is going to translate into more depreciation benefit as we raise residuals into 2015 because we’re going to not clearly be adding a very strong used vehicle sales here to our five year look back while we’re going to be dropping off a pretty weak year.
So you’re going certainly get some earnings impact from that.
As we continue to refine our maintenance expertise around the new technology we expect to continue to see benefit each year from that.
And then the new products as Dennis and his team really finalize the changes that we’re making for on-demand and we start to see that product really get launched next year and customers start signing up for that we’re really encouraged.
We think that certainly the testing we’ve done with customers in the marketplace for acceptance for this product is very high.
And we would expect to see benefits that are going to help the margin on the FMS side there.
So we expect that we will over this next several years be able to get beyond our current levels.
Okay.
And my second question I want to go to the pension thing a couple of things about that if I can understand.
The number Art that you gave out the $300 million plus is that the vested portion or is that the accumulated or projected liability portion for those employees? And then secondly is that can you address why you’re only offering us to 20% of the pension fund participants as opposed to a higher number or even conversely I guess the lower number? Right.
So the 370 Art represents the pension benefit obligation for those employees which are the terminated vested employees.
So that we’re really offering effectively to all of our term vested employees and that represents just about 20% of our obligation; the rest is associated with current retirees and then also active employees.
Okay.
Very good.
That helps me a lot.
Thank you.
Okay.
You got it.
Next is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey.
Good morning Scott.
So you mentioned a couple of times less benefit from gains.
Just want to make sure I understand are you saying less of an increasing in gains or you think gains turn negative year-over-year I’m thinking more about 15? No no less of an increase.
Because if you think about last year we started to see gains kick in last year and then the year-over-year comps now are going to get tougher in the fourth quarter.
As we get into next year it could come down but that will be -- that should be offset by benefit we’re going to get in depreciation expense.
So I would see those two as maybe being a slight net positive next year.
So the increase in depreciation sorry the reduction in depreciation or gains on sales maybe come down is the net positive? We should be a net positive.
Okay.
Yes.
We expect the benefit around residual value changes to exceed any impact from reduced gains on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
That makes sense.
On the fleet growth -- so I think there is a lot of hope that it’s going to show up but what’s the realistic piece of growth to expect.
I think the fleet is up by 2% year-over-year.
If this works -- your strategy of getting more growth should we be thinking 2% kind of fleet growth or couldn’t this get to a 4% 5% fleet growth in the year? Yes.
I think longer term I don’t know if it’s next year or the following year but certainly our goal here is to get the fleet growth up certainly beyond the 2% whether it’s 3% 4% or 5% but we want to see.
You’ve got a huge segment of the market that’s 90% that is out there.
If we can start shipping away that it’s certainly realistic to expect that the numbers would look more like a 3% or 4% maybe even 5% overtime.
And when do you think that happens or can happen? I think continued progress.
Look last year we grew -- if you exclude UK trailers last year Dennis and his team grew the lease fleet 1 700 units.
This year we’re targeting 25.
So I would expect that 25 next year to be great.
And I don’t -- not into yet exactly what that number is going to be but continued progress.
Dennis and his team have done a great job of beginning to focus the sales force in this area.
We’re still selling about a third of what our growth is from private fleet conversions.
But we expect that overtime to continue to be greater.
And Dennis has a total cost of ownership tool that he has rolled out to his sales force.
More recently we’ve made some adjustments to the commission plan to encourage more of the conversion.
So I think all of these things overtime are going to lead to more focus and more growth in that side of the business.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you Scott.
Next question comes from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Hi everyone.
Hey Jeff.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can I focus a little bit on CSS because between the allocated [$11.5] million and it looks like there was a big jump in the unallocated.
Could you talk a little bit more -- I know you said technology investments and some other things.
But talk a little bit more about what driving those numbers up and kind of where we should be thinking in in terms of where they level out? Yes Jeff the price that we talked about in the release it’s a combination of higher sales and marketing costs as we’ve started the initiatives really that we announced over the last few months as well as the investments in technology that is really key to our business going forward.
So it was maybe a little more pronounced this quarter since some of the marketing was maybe more centralized in the third quarter.
As we look out I mean over the near-term we would not expect those kinds of year-over-year comps to play out in the fourth quarter.
We expect it to be more much more in line with the prior year from an unallocated spending perspective.
Okay.
So I guess you’re saying I should probably see 60 to fall back a little bit as the unallocated normalizes? Yes.
Okay.
And on the dedicated side you gave us a little glimpse into what was going on Supply Chain but it looks like though the revenue per vehicle on the dedicated side was down about 2% is that fuel related is that mix related.
What would be causing that type of change because that number has been a positive number? Yes.
Fuel represents about two percentage points of growth.
So the fuel price being down would represent 2% of that.
Jeff I think if you back that out it’s flat.
And the rest of it’s mix because we have different revenue per vehicles at different types of accounts.
So the rest of the variation is going to be mix and then of course if the loss business is a slightly different type of project which it was then that will also affect the total.
Okay.
We are -- cost increases that we see what you’re getting at are we passing on cost increases we are.
And when we to the extent that we’re experiencing wage rate increases we are able to pass on to our customers by and large.
I’m seeing the margin better but this -- the dedicated growth rate is a little bit slower than the rest of the industry historically little stronger than this.
So is this a function of we’re slowing our growth because the drivers are tough to get so we’re our slowing down sidings or is it just more kind of seasonal mix customer related? Well we definitely don’t see ourselves as growing slower than the market or growing slower in dedicated in general.
You are seeing lost business and we’re quoting to dedicated here which really automotive trucking.
Okay.
And that’s definitely putting a dent in the dedicated what we’re reporting as the dedicated growth rate.
If you look at our new sales in dedicated they are more than double what they were a few years ago.
So and that’s the market that you’re seeing with other companies as well.
And it’s also from the efforts of working with FMS on converting private fleets to dedicated.
And I think we will continue to see that going forward.
Okay.
Thanks John.
So what you’re saying is mostly optics is what I’m saying.
You’re seeing a lot of; the auto is kind of messing with the optics a little bit yes.
Yes and I think just to add to what John said Jeff.
There is strong sales activity in dedicated I think it’s also a matter of timing of when the new business ramps up versus the loss business that we saw in auto.
And once those -- once we start to get some of these new accounts ramped up and implemented you’ll start to see that growth start to pick up again in 2015.
Okay guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Jeff.
Next question is David Ross with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Robert with the strong used vehicle sales and good pricing right now could you remind us how you’re estimating residual value and new contracts that are signed is it assumed that current used price or rolling average? No it’s the same thing we talked about for depreciation part; it’s a five year rolling average.
So we don’t -- we certainly aren’t putting the current pricing in there we’re using a five year -- although it has been coming up as you might imagine which is helping us get more competitive on the leases.
But it’s the same methodology we’ve used for a long time which is a five year rolling average.
Okay.
And then as far as the new contracts that are being signed for full service lease is the average contract in terms of number of trucks moving significantly one way or the other? Put another way are you attracting more smaller customers or more bigger customers? Yes.
I don’t think there has been a big movement.
I think the one thing we are seeing and we talked a little bit about it in the second quarter call was we had a big account that we signed contract maintenance.
So we are seeing both large and small customers; some may go to full service lease some may go to contract maintenance and some may go to on-demand.
So I think the one thing we’re just getting our arms around here and I think as over the next few years it will play out is what products customers decide to go to.
And I think the important thing is that we’re expanding the number of offerings.
So we have a broader selection and we can attract more customers and each of those products will be profitable.
But no we’re really -- we’re trying to be broad about who we go after and some of these new products that we’re coming out with are really to target some of the larger fleets.
Excellent thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you David.
Next is Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Can I ask on your thoughts on rising interest rates and your ability to pass along the higher cost of borrower to customers? How sort of dynamic is your pricing when you sign new contracts in an environment where over the next five years the probability rate is going up -- would seem will be high? Thanks.
We really update -- we update our interest rate and pricing we can update it on a real time basis almost.
So as interest rates change we make updates to our cost of capital that gets priced into the next lease.
And we don’t buy a truck until we have a signed lease.
So we really do match the interest rate that we’re charging the customer with the interest rate that we’re getting in our empty end.
So it’s really pretty tightly match funded.
What percentage of your debt is on variable? 25% Tom.
25.
Okay all right.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
And then can I just touch on some of the questions with regard to driver shortages? Obviously this isn’t necessarily a huge problem or challenge for you per se but kind of going back one of the earlier questions I was kind of alluding to possibly seeing maybe a bit of damp in growth maybe your customers are facing driver shortages.
To what extent can you comment on that being a potential to the headwind for either obviously specifically related to FSL or even on the rental side? I’ll let John elaborate on this in a second but I do want to reiterate the fact that in a lot of ways this driver shortage is actually a good thing for us.
The harder it gets to hire drivers for private fleet more likely they are to look at outsourcing.
So some of the things that we’re seeing in dedicated sales even with customers that are leasing and decide to also going to dedicated is because they’re having some of these challenges and we have a very extensive driver recruiting network and it’s an area that we’re really can excel at.
Even though it is tougher for us we have 6 000 commercial drivers that work for Ryder.
And we are very good at recruiting and retaining drivers.
So I’ll let John to talk about some of the challenges that we are seeing in the market.
That’s the main factor it drives more outsourcing because some private fleets are having more trouble hiring drivers and they look to us for that.
Smaller factor I guess kind of a secondary impact is couple of carriers.
Most private fleet have to decide or most private shippers have to decide which shipments go on for hire and which shipments go on their private fleets and there is kind of a breakpoint often times it’s like a mileage breakpoint if it’s more than 200 miles it goes for hire et cetera.
And then as the private as for-hire trucking capacity has gotten really tight some of these big fleets are looking at expanding the scope of their private fleet or of their dedicated fleet versus the for-hire.
And so that we’re seeing that lead to customers take a higher percentage of their transportation and move it either on a dedicated fleet or a private fleet versus for-hire that’s also helping growth.
So just given that should we expect the dedicated side to really ramp up and accelerate just given the dynamics we have seen and are likely to persist? Yes.
Like I said we’ve seen Ryder dedicated new sales more than double.
It’s on track this year to be more than double what it was a couple of years ago.
And so when we look out in our strategic planning over the next three years we’re expecting to see pretty good growth in Ryder dedicating certainly at least a point or two higher than say SCS in total.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
Next is Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Kevin.
Robert it might be early but given your strong lease pipeline can you maybe tell us directionally how we should think about your CapEx spending for 2015 is that possible? Well CapEx there will be less replacement CapEx next year slightly less.
Okay.
And really the unknown is still how much growth.
And as I just mentioned earlier I would expect us without knowing yet what the number is we want to build on what we did this year.
So we’d like it to be more than the 2 500.
But we’ll be providing more information on that in February.
Okay.
And then kind of switching gears here your maintenance-only product seems to have some pretty good success growing that.
Have you had some success converting those maintenance-only customers to full lease customers? Yes.
I think it’s still early.
We’re -- as I mentioned we haven’t really fully rolled it out we’ve got now 30 customers and we’re beginning to get some business from them.
But I’ll let Dennis give you some more color on what we’ve seen with those customers.
Yes.
What I would add to that Kevin is that what we’re seeing initially is when these customers are coming in; they are renting from us and buying things like fuel.
So we haven’t necessarily seen any of these customers expressing interest in leasing but they’re getting more comfortable where they’re buying ancillary services from us.
And we expect over time for there to be leasing opportunities with those customers.
Okay.
I guess the goal there is to kind of get your teeth more to those customers eventually convert them to full leasing is that correct? Yes.
Really it gets down to -- it’s them getting comfortable to us getting exposure to us and that that relationship building.
We’re addressing the major pinpoint that people are seeing out there which is with the new technology both primarily the maintenance cost is increasing.
Now the acquisition cost they’re seen but with the maintenance cost they’re seen the training challenges the tooling challenges and they can come to Ryder for a one-stop solution one-stop shop if you will it’s very helpful.
So once we get in the door with them there is a lot of comfort that’s built a lot of trust and then we’re able to sell additional products to them.
Got you okay.
Great and thanks so much for your time this morning.
Thank you.
Thanks Kevin.
Justin Long with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
And first question I just wanted to ask if you could help put some more color on the backlog or the pipeline in both the leasing business and SCS.
Have you seen things improve on a sequential basis and thus far in the fourth quarter and is there any way to quantify the visibility you have on growth potentially accelerating going forward? Yes.
I would say in leasing the pipeline has continued to be strong.
The sales in the third quarter were strong; we’re expecting fourth quarter to also end strong and a lot of interest.
And as the economy continues to hill and as we get more fuel efficient vehicles and as we’re doing a better job of converting some ownership accounts that that pipeline continues to be at a strong level.
In terms of supply chain same thing; there is still lot of -- John mentioned the amount of sales that we’ve had in supply chain over the last year and last two years we’ve had some lost business that has kind of hurt us a little bit here in the last few quarters.
But as we implement that new business that will really start to show up in 2015.
So we’re encouraged by that.
I do want to be clear that certainly we have seen no slowdown in our end markets whether it’s rental lease supply chain dedicated even through this month in October I’d tell you it continues to be a relatively strong market.
And as you know we’re primarily North American; over 90% of our revenues are North America.
So we’re very tied into the North American economy and we’re seeing continued strength in our end markets.
Great that’s good to hear.
And as my second question I wanted to ask about margins in the FMS segment.
Going forward how should we generally think about the incremental margin profile of that business as you return to prerecession margin levels and start trying to improve beyond that 12%? Yes I think this year; we’ve had a bit of boost for used vehicle sales.
I would tell you about a percentage point of what we’re seeing is going to be from the gains that we experienced this year.
They’re really very very strong used vehicle market.
As we get into next year we’re still expecting used vehicle market to be relatively strong because there is still going to be tight supply.
We’re selling out vehicles that were manufactured in ‘08 and ‘09 which were really relatively soft OEM production years.
So as we look into next year I’d expect that tight supply to continue to help solidify pricing.
But definitely we’re going to see some headwind in terms of margin percent from that into next year.
However the offset is we’re going to see depreciation expense benefit.
So we’re up a 190 basis points I think in FMS.
I wouldn’t expect 190 basis points improvement next year but I would expect us to go back to probably that 70 to 80… Right we’re 90 basis points up excluding the UVS gains.
So next year as you kind of look out you may have some headwind because of gains do decline you may see some decrement but you’re in that range in that so 60 to 90% type of range.
And then you’re getting the earnings improvement through growth through growth in each of the product lines.
Great that’s really helpful color.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you Justin.
Thank you.
Next is Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
So just a question I know it typically doesn’t but did the swing in fuel prices; did that have any impact on the quarter? I think the only places in the total revenue line; I mean there was some write-ups this morning about us missing the consensus total revenue that would have impacted total revenue because fuel prices are down.
But other than if you look at the operating revenue line there really isn’t one and on the bottom-line there isn’t either.
Okay.
So no impact on the bottom-line.
And then Art could you maybe talk to what’s baked into gains on vehicle sales for fourth quarter? It sounds like it maybe down sequentially but ahead of last year’s fourth quarter maybe just add a little bit of color there.
Yes it should be down we’re expecting Matt obviously we had very strong third quarter still will be up year-over-year.
So I mean directionally maybe say 10% down sequentially that’s being in that target range.
The other thing to keep in mind is this where we’ll start to see less year-over-year benefit that we expect from used vehicle gains.
We’re starting to see the ramp up like Robert said earlier in the fourth quarter of last year.
So gains will be up but it’s not going to be to the extent we’ve seen in the first three quarters.
Okay helpful.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Casey Deak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
Hello.
So if I look at the spread to the cost of capital 100 to 110 you’ve talked about getting to 150 basis points in the past.
Is that still the goal? And then what gets you there? Is it going to be the pricing on the new leases is it growth in dedicated offerings is it going to be more on the on demand maintenance if you could delineate that a little bit? And would that ultimately get you above 150 down the road? I guess it’s yes to all of those.
But what is going to get us there is growth in FSL because as we grow we’ll be able to leverage the overheads.
Certainly these new services of on demand maintenance and some of the things that Dennis and his team is bringing on is going to help expand that ROC spread.
Growth in dedicated and growth in Supply Chain those are high ROC product lines with limited capital required.
So margin improvement and margin recovery there is going to help get us there.
And it’s just really -- beyond that it’s just that continued growth story.
As we look to bring more of the non-outsourced market in and we start to grow the top-line we start to leverage the overhead leverage the infrastructure that we have and drive that spread.
And 150 is our target.
Obviously once we get there we’ll raise the target.
But right now that’s our target.
And also maintaining within our target leverage range.
All right that’s great.
And then second question on on-demand maintenance.
Are you guys able to quantify kind of repeat visits you’re seeing? I know that 6 200 is going to be unique visits in the quarter.
But trying to get a sense of how sticky is the business are customers coming in when there is only a problem with the truck or are they coming in for preventative are they coming back in are you seeing them multiple times in a quarter if you could talk a little bit about that? I’ll let Dennis give you color on that.
Yes.
What I would say Casey is we’re seeing for unique vehicle two to three visits.
Well for the vehicles we’re seeing we’re seeing them two to three times over the period since we have launched on-demand.
Okay.
So that kind of gives you a rough ballpark for what we’re seeing right now.
Okay.
And you’ve seen so the guys that have signed on and that are coming in you haven’t seen where somebody is coming in and then they’re dropping off and you don’t see them again on that? You’ll see that some but once a customer gets comfortable we’re seeing repeat business from them.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from David Campbell of Thompson Davis.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everybody just still morning.
I just wanted to -- most of my questions have been answered but I’m just curious about the supply chain business I’ve seen revenue increases for that business around the world and domestically.
And I’m just a little surprised that you’re not seeing it either or at least not much and considering the fact that you’re also trying to convert as I understand it some full service leases into dedicated business.
It sounds as the macro environment not as strong as it looks or what’s going on? Yes David.
I certainly understand the question and I would tell you that we are seeing a healthy external environment.
What the reason that our growth rate has come down in the quarter in this quarter and into next quarter is primarily some lost business pretty significant in terms of revenue that hit us in the second quarter really.
And we expect that we’ve got new business coming on that over the next several quarters will begin to offset that.
But we’re in a little bit of a soft patch here.
It really has to do with the timing of when we lost the business and the timing of the new business coming back on.
But overall I agree with your statement.
The market is good and growing.
We have seen supply chain growth nicely over the last several years their earnings between ‘09 and 2013 grew at a CAGR of 14%.
So we’re in a little bit of a soft patch this year with SCS but we expect to get back on track in 2015.
Okay thank you very much.
All right David.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Robert Sanchez for closing comments.
Okay well thank you everyone.
Thanks for being on the call.
Great questions and we certainly look forward to seeing you out on the road shows and conferences as we get out during the quarter.
So everyone have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude the conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder Systems Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings and 2015 Forecast Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen-only mode until after the presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings and 2015 forecast conference call.
I’d like to remind you that during this presentation you will hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning’s earnings release and in Ryder’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today’s call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Williford President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we’ll recap our fourth quarter 2014 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook and forecast for 2015.
Then we’ll open up the call for questions.
With that let’s turn to an overview of our fourth quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.60 in the fourth quarter of 2014 up from $1.35 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.25 or 19%.
We came in towards the top-end of our fourth quarter forecast range of $1.56 to $1.61.
Fourth quarter comparable results exclude charges of $1.38 primarily for pension buyout cost as well as restructuring and other charges.
The pension settlement cost totaled $1.29 and relate to our previously announced lump-sum pension distribution made to approximately 6000 former employees during the quarter and to a lesser extent the buyout of certain multi-employer pension obligations.
We'll discuss these pension related items in more detail later.
Fourth quarter comparable results also exclude $0.06 of restructuring and other costs primarily for severance.
Operating revenue which excludes FMS fuel and all subcontracted transportation revenue was up 5% to a record $1.42 billion for the fourth quarter.
Revenue grew in both business segments.
Growth in FMS was driven by full service lease and commercial rental while SCS benefited from new business and higher volumes.
Page 5 includes some additional financial information for the fourth quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased by 300 000 shares to $53 million this reflects the pause of our anti-dilutive share repurchase program during 2013.
In December 2013 we announced a $2 million share anti-dilutive repurchase program and began buying under the program in February 2014.
During the fourth quarter we bought 153 000 shares at an average price of $91.20.
To-date we’ve purchased 1.3 million shares at an average price of $80.32 under the program.
Excluding pension cost and other items the comparable tax rate was 34.4% above the prior year of 33.3%.
The increased rate reflects increased earnings in higher tax jurisdictions.
Page 6 highlights key financial statistics on a full year basis.
Operating revenue was up 5% to $5.5 billion.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were $5.58 up 14% from $4.88 in the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital increased to 110 basis points up from 100 basis points in the prior year driven primarily by higher earnings and lower capital.
I’ll turn now to page 7 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 6% driven mainly by growth in full service lease and commercial rental.
Full service lease revenue increased 5% due to higher rates on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology and growth in the fleet size.
We're encouraged by the organic growth in our lease fleet during 2014 which was our third consecutive year of organic lease fleet growth and the highest growth rate in the past decade.
On a full year basis the lease fleet increased by 2 600 vehicles including the planned reduction of 600 low margin trailers in the UK.
Excluding the UK trailer impact the lease fleet grew by 3 200 units for the full year which exceeded our prior forecast of an increase of 2 500 vehicles.
Sequentially from the third quarter the lease fleet increased by 2 200 vehicles.
In addition we had record lease sales in the fourth quarter which provides a nice momentum for additional lease fleet growth in 2015.
Miles driven per vehicles per day on U.S.
lease power units were up 3% compared to the prior year and are running at normal historical levels.
The average age of our lease fleet began to decline in June of 2012 as a result of high replacement activity.
It continued to improve this quarter and was down by one month sequentially from the prior quarter or four months for the full year.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 10% primarily reflecting the benefit of a significant new contract signed earlier in the year.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew organically by approximately 3 700 vehicles from the prior year reflecting the sales activity.
Contract related maintenance increased 4% from the prior year reflecting higher ancillary maintenance work.
Included in contract related maintenance are 5 600 vehicles serviced during the quarter under on-demand maintenance agreements.
This represents a 12% increase from the prior year.
With over 30 customers signed to-date we continue to see strong interest in this service.
Commercial rental revenue was down 10% driven by higher demand and improved pricing in North America.
The average rental fleet grew by 6% from the prior year and was down 1% sequentially.
Rental utilization on power units was 80.1% exceeding our prior year level of 78.9% reflecting strong holiday shipping demand.
Global pricing on power units was up 3% which was in line with our expectation.
In used vehicle sales we say strong demand and pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall FMS earnings increased versus the prior year due to strong rental performance and better Full Service Lease results.
Commercial rental performance benefited from better than expected demand and higher pricing on a larger fleet.
Better lease results reflect vehicle residual value benefits and fleet growth.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased 25% reflecting leverage on revenue growth.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 13.2% up 200 basis points from the prior year.
I’ll turn now to Supply Chain solutions on page 8.
Operating revenue grew 4% due to new business and higher volumes partially offset by automotive business lost earlier in the year.
In addition SCS revenue growth was negatively impacted by 2 percentage points from fuel cost pass-throughs and foreign exchange.
We returned to year-over-year earnings growth in this segment this quarter following declines earlier in the year.
SCS earnings before taxes were up 2% reflecting revenue growth partially offset by higher insurance cost.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 6.2% down 10 basis points from the prior year.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 10 reflects our full year results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won’t review these results in detail but I want to highlight that FMS operating margin reached 12% for the full year returning to the low end of our pre-recession range.
Comparable full year earnings from continuing operations were $297 million up 16% from the prior year.
At this point I’ll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 11; full year gross capital expenditures were $2.3 billion up $114 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our rental fleet in light of strong demand partially offset by lower lease replacement activity.
We realized proceeds primarily from sales of revenue earning equipment of nearly $500 million up 10% from the prior year.
The increase reflects higher sales prices per vehicle.
During the third quarter we also realized proceeds of $126 million from a planned sale leaseback of revenue earning equipment purchased earlier in the year.
Full year net capital expenditures decreased 3% to $1.68 billion.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of $1.37 billion for 2014.
That's up $147 million or 12% from the prior year.
This increase was driven primarily by higher cash-based earnings and the timing of cash payments.
We generated over $2 billion of total cash during the year up $300 million from the prior year primarily due to higher operating cash flow the sale leaseback and higher sales proceeds.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by 6% to $2.3 billion for the year.
2014 free cash flow of negative $202 million improved from negative $386 million in the prior year.
Higher cash from operations the sale leaseback transaction and stronger used vehicle proceeds more than offset higher growth capital spending.
Page 13 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of $4.7 billion increased by $419 million from year-end 2013.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the year were 258% up from 226% at the end of 2013.
Leverage at year end is within our target range of 225% to 275%.
Year-end leverage was above our earlier expectations due to a year end pension equity adjustment.
This adjustment reflects annual pension assumption updates such as mortality and discount rates and is determined each year as of December 31.
This year's pension equity adjustment increased leverage by 23 percentage points.
Equity at the end of the year was $1.82 billion down by $78 million from year-end 2013 as earnings were more than offset by pension charges currency translation adjustments share repurchases and dividends.
Earlier on the call Robert mentioned pension buyout costs that were excluded from fourth quarter comparable earnings.
The majority of this charge was non-cash and related to the acceptance by over 6000 former employees of a lump-sum buyout offer of their vested benefits.
The 60% acceptance rate we saw from this offer exceeded our expectations and covers approximately 12% or $259 million of our U.S.
pension obligation.
Also included in the charge our settlement costs associated with the withdrawal from two multi-employer pension plans during the quarter.
These actions are consistent with other steps we've taken to reduce the size and potential future volatility of our pension obligations.
The funded status of the U.S.
plan remained materially unchanged following the lump-sum buyout.
The cash distribution was funded by assets of the pension plan and did not impact Ryder’s balance sheet leverage.
At this point I’ll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 15 summarizes key results for our asset management area.
Used vehicle inventory held-for-sale was 5 500 vehicles significantly down from 7 900 units in the prior year and 300 units below the third quarter.
Used vehicle inventory is just below our target range of 6000 to 8000 vehicles.
Pricing for used vehicles was strong for both tractors and trucks.
Compared with fourth quarter 2013 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 17% for tractors and up 19% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 2% and truck pricing was up 1% versus the third quarter of 2014.
We saw improved pricing in all used vehicle sales channels.
We’ve also shifted more of our sales to retail instead of wholesale now that inventories are at normalized levels following elevated inventories in the prior year.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by around 480 units or 7% and remain below recessionary levels.
Early termination of leased vehicles increased slightly by about 280 units and remain well below recessionary levels.
I’ll turn now to page 17 and cover our outlook for 2015.
Pages 17 and 18 highlight some of the key assumptions in the development of our 2015 earnings forecast.
Our 2015 plan anticipates moderate growth in the overall economy.
We’re assuming foreign exchange rates remain stable at their current levels which will result in a negative year-over-year impact to both revenue and earnings.
In Fleet Management Solutions we’re expecting growth in all product lines.
In lease strong sales should drive an acceleration in fleet growth.
For 2015 we're forecasting to grow our lease fleet by over 4000 vehicles excluding UK trailers as market demand improves and we make meaningful progress on our initiatives to penetrate the non-outsourced market.
In Rental we’re forecasting improved results due to higher pricing and demand on a larger fleet.
We expect to expand our new on-demand maintenance offering during the first half of the year which should drive increased revenue growth in the second half.
We expect higher maintenance costs associated with new engine technology to be partially offset by the implementation of maintenance cost initiatives.
The strong used vehicle pricing results that we realized in 2014 will benefit depreciation rates this year as these results are blended into our vehicle residual value calculation.
These benefits will more than offset lower expected gains on used vehicles sold with higher book values.
We expect used vehicle pricing to increase in 2015 with sales volumes relatively unchanged compared to 2014.
Sales proceeds are expected to be negatively impacted by the mix of vehicle types sold.
Overall we expect higher FMS earning due to growth in the full-service lease better performance in commercial rental increased contributions from our new on-demand maintenance offering and depreciation changes.
These improvements will be partially offset by higher strategic investments and overheads.
Turning to page 18 in Supply Chain we expect revenue growth due to new sales partially offset by foreign exchange impacts.
Dedicated revenue is forecast to benefit from strong new sales activity including continued convergence of lease customers to Dedicated Solutions.
Dedicated earnings will benefit from revenue growth as well as from productivity improvements in driver recruiting and retention.
We plan increased overheads in all segments primarily due to strategic investments to drive long-term growth in the business.
We expect to continue offsetting any employee share activity through an anti-dilutive share repurchase program so that the share count remains generally unchanged.
We’re forecasting an EPS headwind due to a higher tax rate resulting from increased earnings in higher tax jurisdictions.
Finally we’ve planned a $250 million sale-leaseback transaction this year to finance a portion of our vehicle capital expenditures.
Page 19 provides a summary of some of the key financial statistics in our 2015 forecast.
Based on the assumptions I just outlined we’re expecting another record year in operating revenue and comparable EPS in 2015.
We expect revenue growth to accelerate with operating revenue increasing 7%.
Comparable earnings per share are forecast to increase 12% to 15% showing nice operating leverage on our revenue growth.
Comparable earnings per share is forecast in a range of $6.25 to $6.40 in 2015 as compared to $5.58 last year.
Our average diluted share count is forecast to be roughly flat at 52.9 million shares.
We project a comparable tax rate of 36.4% up half a percent from last year's rate of 35.9%.
The spread between our return on capital and cost of capital is forecast to expand nicely to 1.3% to 1.4% up by 20 to 30 basis points from last year.
This is the strongest capital return spread we’ve seen in over a decade.
Our 2015 return on equity forecast is 17%.
The next page outlines our revenue expectations by business segment.
With the change in leadership in our logistics business this year we’ve going to start reporting three business segments.
While there is no change in the FMS reporting we’ll report our Supply Chain and Dedicated activity separately starting in the first quarter.
In addition we’re going to exclude fuel revenue from our operating revenue numbers in all three segments.
Historically fuel was only excluded from FMS operating revenue.
However the cost is passed through to customers in all segments in a very timely manner.
The new reporting will help focus on the fundamental growth of our service offering in all segments.
We’ll provide historical financials for the two new segments in March so that you have time to update your models prior to our first quarter earnings release.
In Fleet Management operating revenue is expected to increase by 8% in 2015 up from 6% last year.
Longer term we now expect that FMS can deliver operating revenue growth in the high single digit range up from our earlier expectations for mid-single-digit growth.
The higher long-term growth rate is supported by both market trends and our initiatives to drive increased rates of outsourcing.
Full service lease revenue is forecast to grow by 7% which would be the highest organic growth rate in over a decade.
This is driven by higher fleet count due to stronger new sales higher lease rates reflecting increased vehicle investment cost and CPI rate increases.
We’re forecasting a 9% increase in rental revenue.
Rental growth is due to 4% higher pricing on a 4% larger fleet with stable utilization.
Supply Chain operating revenue is expected to grow 2%.
Revenue growth from new sales is forecast to be partially offset by volume declines and network redesigns with some current customers.
We expect revenue growth in Dedicated up 10% reflecting strong new sales activity.
Page 21 provides a chart outlining the key changes in our comparable EPS forecast from 2014 to 2015.
We plan to continue making strategic investments to drive long-term growth in our business.
These investments fall mainly into the areas of sales and marketing and technology to improve our customers’ experience.
Strategic investments and other overheads are expected to cost $0.23% this year.
Higher compensation expense is expected to lower earnings by about $0.20 per share this year.
This includes the cost of merit increases higher medical cost additional headcount and upfront commission expenses partially offset by lower plan bonus.
Lower used vehicle sales gains will reduce EPS by $0.07 as vehicles are sold with higher book value following several years of residual value increases.
On-demand maintenance and other smaller products are expected to contribute an additional $0.15 to EPS this year.
Growth in Dedicated revenue combined with margin expansion should add $0.17.
In Supply Chain we expect an additional $0.25 driven primarily by margin improvement as we move past the challenges of 2014.
Commercial rental is expected to increase EPS by $0.35 based on increased demand and pricing as well as higher residual values.
The largest driver of 2015 EPS improvement is growth and increased return in our contractual FMS product lines totaling an additional $0.50 this year.
This results from fleet growth and higher residual values partially offset by increased maintenance costs on new technology.
The net result of the operational items I've mentioned so far would result in an EPS of $6.50.
In addition however we’re forecasting a negative $0.10 impact from foreign exchange rates and higher tax rate.
This brings the high end of our comparable EPS to $6.40 with a range of $6.25 to $6.40 forecast for this year.
I’ll turn it over to Art now to cover capital spending and cash flow.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 22 we’re forecasting total gross capital spending of $2.5 billion for the year and $250 million over last year with higher spending in both lease and rental.
Lease capital is forecast to grow by over $200 million to support increased fleet growth on stronger sales as well as higher purchase costs for vehicle due to inflation and EPA mandated emission standard requirements.
We plan to spend $450 million on rental vehicles primarily to refresh the fleet as well as for 5% growth in the average fleet size.
Our outlook for improved rental demand and pricing remains favorable through January.
Proceeds from sales of primarily revenue earning equipment are forecast to decline by about 10% to $450 million.
This mainly reflects a change in mix of units sold with relatively more trailers versus power vehicles as compared to the prior year.
We’re planning a $250 million sale-leaseback transaction this year.
As a result net capital expenditures are forecast at $1.85 billion this represents a 10% increase from 2014.
Free cash flow is forecast at negative $300 million this year.
Please note that free cash flow would be strongly positive excluding growth capital spending and lease.
We expect total obligation to equity to remain flat at 260% at year-end and within our target range of 225% to 275%.
We’ve talked in recent years about the impact that higher growth capital spending has on the business.
Page 23 highlights the amount of growth capital spending we’ve had by year driven from both fleet growth and higher vehicle investment cost per unit and its impact on cash flow.
For 2015 we expect to spend just over $1 billion on growth capital $850 million in lease and $180 million in rental.
In 2010 and 2011 growth capital spending was focused primarily on the rental fleet as we started to move past the recession and experienced very strong rental demand.
Starting in 2012 the largest part of our growth capital spend is for contracted lease units.
This amount has been steadily increasing as we execute on our strategy to penetrate the historically non-outsourced market.
The box on the right-hand side of the page highlights 2015 gross spending and lease.
A greater number of leased vehicles will require $450 million capital while higher per unit cost will require an additional $400 million.
Both our earnings and cash flow will benefit from this contracted growth over the typical five to seven-year life of these vehicles.
In the near-term free cash flow is negatively impacted since we're spending an increasing amount upfront to purchase vehicles.
As you can see in the bottom line of the page however this growth capital spending is significantly benefiting operating cash.
Operating cash flow is projected to be close to $1.5 billion this year up 50% from 2009.
At this point let me turn the call back over to Robert to recap our EPS forecast.
Thanks Art.
Turning to page 24 we're expecting EPS to grow 12% to 15% to a range of $6.25 to $6.40 versus a comparable $5.58 last year.
This improvement is despite $0.10 negative impact from a higher tax rate and foreign exchange.
We're also providing first-quarter EPS forecast of $0.95 to $1 versus comparable prior year EPS of $0.92.
The growth rate of earnings in the first quarter is somewhat below full year due to challenging first quarter rental comparisons and a lesser benefit coming from supply chain early in the year.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
Before we move to Q&amp;A I'd like to take a minute to thank John Williford for his many contributions to Ryder.
As you know from our prior announcement John will be retiring from the company in March and so this will be his last earnings call here.
John has provided tremendous leadership to the overall company and significantly shaped the vision of Ryder supply chain business.
I greatly appreciate the depth of logistics expertise John brought to the company and the work he has done to develop our team here.
Given John's work on development and succession planning as we previously announced I'm pleased that we've got two long-term Ryder employees stepping up to take over the leadership roles in this area.
Steve Sensing will be running our supply chain business and John Diez will be running our dedicated business after John's retirement.
I want to personally thank John again for his support and leadership and wish him all the best in his future endeavors.
We had a lot of material to cover today with both our fourth quarter results and 2015 outlook.
As a result I'd like to ask that you limit yourself to one question and one related follow up if clarification is needed.
If you have additional questions you are welcome to get back in the queue and we'll take as many calls as we can.
At this time I'll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys nice quarter.
Could you talk a little bit about you know if I look at 1Q guidance versus the full year the 1Q guidance is selling out kind of mid-single-digit earnings growth in your upper range versus the 12% to 15% you've talked about and I recognize the couple limitations you're talking about.
But t just seems like 1Q is a lot more conservative than what you're laying out for the full year.
Can you talk about is there anything else besides those couple of things you've thrown out that as you are concerned about 1Q and then kind of more importantly given that 1Q is the slower of the growth quarters it looks like can you talk a little bit about how you think the progression through the year plays out? Yeah I think the two items that we mentioned John is so to layout was some of the headwind in the first quarter is it relates to this growth.
First is remember last year during the polar vortex we had a lot of rental activity that really has created some more difficult comps in rental.
And then more importantly I think in supply chain you remember a lot of the challenges we had especially around the startup were a lot of that came in the second quarter.
So the comparables really started to improve supply chain in the second quarter and then you see that through the balance of the year.
So I think those are the two big ones that you pull those two out and you start to get closer to our full year growth rate.
And then what about the progression through the year? It's John this is Art it's going to improve much more in line obviously with the full year as this becomes the magic of numbers to a certain extent.
So we're expecting to what Robert said especially on the supply chain side we're going to get much better results starting in the second quarter with you know because the comps are a little bit easier with the headwinds we had in 2014.
Okay all right.
And then other question given your comments around outside of the growth capital you're talking about being free cash flow positive and if I look at the balance sheet you're still low within kind of the parameters you've laid out for yourself in terms of your debt-to-capital or debt-to-equity can you just talk a little bit about the decision on the sale-leaseback and why what is there something in the market that makes that attractive at this point? Is here some other demand for capital that you see or can you just elaborate a little bit on the need for that? Well obviously we're spending a lot we're planning to spend a lot in 2015 and from a tax perspective we are and are well positioned right now with bonus depreciation that was enacted for 2014.
So really there's other providers that can more efficiently use the tax benefits right now and so that we're going to avail ourselves of that and that's really one of the benefits of this transaction as we can get more cost effective funding than otherwise.
Okay does the sale leaseback then have some implications for the margin maybe do you sacrifice anything on the EBIT margin and gain it back on lower again I guess lower debt cost? No not really.
Now this is done after the fact.
So we're going to lease to our customers under the same terms that we always would.
This is just a little more cost-effective financing for us.
All right very good.
Thanks for all the color today I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Wish you all the best moving forward.
So Robert let me ask you on the lease fleet guidance last year you had guided to about 2000 trucks in growth and ended up being 3 200.
You know the guidance this year is obviously much stronger than that but based on that 4000-truck number what do you know right now like how sticky is that number now as far as what's committed? What kind of sensitivity there may be to the upside or also to the downside of that 4000-truck growth? Yeah we feel really good about the 4000 a lot of that is driven by what we saw in the fourth quarter.
We had a record sales quarter in the fourth quarter.
So that's going to give us a nice boost going into 2015.
As you saw we ended the year strong too with the 3 200 coming in.
So if you think back we've been talking about this for several years right? That we believe that Ryder can become a growth company and a growth story primarily because there are two reasons.
One is the economy improves and the second thing is that there are trends that really favor outsourcing and the things that we do continue to get tougher because of regulation because of more complexities around technology.
I think what we're beginning to see here is that start to come to fruition and we had not had organic lease fleet growth for a long time.
We started to see it a few years ago and now we're seeing it accelerate.
So I feel great about the progress we're making.
I feel really good about the prospects for continued growth rate rates in FSL and this 4000 I think is a nice milestone to hit.
Is there upside? Obviously you know the whole year has it's we don’t know what the sales are for the full year.
We certainly know what we did in the fourth quarter.
We know it was great but have some estimates of what we think we're going to do in the year but we could always do better.
All right I guess is visibility any different at this point this year than it was at this point last year? And the reason I asked is I'm just trying to see if there was some anomaly in 2014 and it’s a great problem to have right when you beat your guidance by 60%.
But is there something in particular about 2014 that allowed that to happen or is it theoretically possible for that to happen again this year? No it's theoretically possible if that happens again this year.
I mean we have about the same visibility.
If you look at lead times it is not much different than what it was last year.
It stretched out a little bit but there's a lot of things going on.
You've got you know what's going on with the economy as freight demand begins to improve all the initiatives that Dennis and his team have around converting the private the ownership accounts and do-it-yourselfers and the good progress they are making there.
So we take an estimate of what we think the pace of that is going to be.
If it comes in better then you're going to see that number improve which is really what happened in 2014 right? We had given an estimate of 2 500 and ended up at 3 200.
So right now we think it is going to be north of 4000 vehicles and we'll see how that evolves as sales continue to come in over the next few quarters.
Perfect and if I could add just one follow up for John and Robert you had mentioned it before the 2% SCS growth and I know that's excluding fuel but what's kind of the driver of why is that low is that inclusive of companies customer specific volume throughput or is that just like a new business type of number? It's a little lower than our long-term kind of we've been saying for the business 7 to 10 we still believe that for the combined that's the right target and we've been saying our Ryder Dedicated expectation is a little higher than the non-Dedicated piece.
So and you can see from our guidance of Ryder Dedicated expectation is still very strong.
So well a couple of points below for the non-Ryder Dedicated from our target and that's what we described it's a couple of things.
It's the lost automotive business that was lost in midyear that's kind of that effect is going to persist for the first half of the year.
And then as we pointed out in the information is that there's a couple of actually about two or three accounts that are largish accounts we're doing network redesigns for that's going to lower our revenue a little bit a couple of points below our target in the second half.
All right well fair enough.
Thank you so much.
Thank you John.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Hey good morning guys.
Could you provide some perspective on the full service lease fleet growth in 2015 and then some of the components where you're seeing demand either from a vertical standpoint from a customer standpoint or class types? Is there anything of note as it relates to the trends as you look at adding 4000 vehicles in 2015? And then could you stuff what you talked about Robert I think in the prepared remarks you talked about long-term growth within FMS trending toward high single-digits as opposed to mid-single-digit revenue growth I'm assuming that comes on the back of fleet growth as opposed to pricing.
Can you talk about how you see the cadence of fleet growth this cycle are we still in a situation where you can see momentum build in 2015 and potentially accelerate in 2016 from 2015 levels? I know a lot in there but I'll let you tackle it.
All right let me address first the sector growth I think it's a broad growth that we're seeing across all industry sectors.
You know clearly it is what you would expect.
As we've always said we touch a lot of different industry sectors in the economy.
So as you might imagine we are probably seeing a little bit of pressure on some of the oil and gas stuff but overall where it comes to things related to consumer and end market spending we're seeing growth there.
I think as fuel prices have come down that puts more money in our customer's pockets and allows them to maybe do some things that they otherwise wouldn't be able to do.
So that's translating also into a positive.
And I think we're also beginning to see continued improvement in our efforts to convert the ownership accounts.
You know as I mentioned we've been doing about 30% of our growth has come from first-time customers to full service lease.
We saw that pick up a little bit in the fourth quarter so we're encouraged by that.
We made some adjustments to our own internal compensation plan for our sales folks to further encourage going after some of these ownership accounts.
So we think all of those things are really helping to drive this really shift or change in the growth trajectory of the business.
So I think to your second question about is there an opportunity for accelerated growth beyond that yes that's the plan right is that we are still in the early innings of making these conversions.
Remember it is 90% of the overall market that is still not outsourced.
So to the extent we continue to move and make progress on those conversion efforts which I feel really good about we’re going to see that growth continue to accelerate for years to come.
Okay that’s good helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Ross with Stifel.
Yes good morning gentlemen.
Good morning David.
Dedicated is showing some nice growth and I wanted to talk a little bit about yeah the pricing of Dedicated contracts you know for a while one you could say they were underpriced in terms of earning inadequate return over the life of the contract where do you see pricing in the Dedicated segment right now? Is it where you wanted and then how long are the average deals that you are signing today? Yeah we’re the average deal is typically three to five years with Domingo Evergreen after that we tend to be able to hang on to customers as we do a good job for them.
I would say the pricing is always competitive in dedicated but I wouldn't say it’s anymore than what we’ve seen historically.
Remember we try to compete in the areas where we can really bring more value if not just doctored or doctored [ph] type Dedicated and we continue to see a lot of opportunity.
Remember as we as driver recruiting has gotten tougher as all the regulations around private fleets continue to increase we are seeing more companies that have been doing it themselves looking to outsource the dedicated solution.
And in our unique position of having over 13 000 customers that we do business with on the fleet side and being able to convert those customers to Dedicated I think gives us a real advantage and a leg up in that effort.
And have you seen driver pay pressure from your own recruitment to satisfy your Dedicated fleets and if so have you been able to pass that along to the customer pretty easily? There is a little bit of pressure but we have been able to pass along the increase we’ve been able to put through increases that we need to get the drivers we need and by the way our openings is down quite a bit from a year ago and we’ve been able for the most part to pass through the wage increases in CPI or rather price increases.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Hey thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
I wanted to ask about FMS margins.
So with this acceleration in fleet growth how are you thinking about margins in FMS this year? And Robert if you're right that there's a few years of kind of this accelerated leasing growth where would you think FMS margins could peak at this cycle relative to last cycle? Yeah Scott I think it’s hard to tell where they are going to peak.
You know we set our goal here for the last several years had been to get back to that 12% to 13%.
We hit 12% this year probably a little earlier than we expected primarily due to the used vehicle sales benefit in the gain side.
We won’t have that going into next year so you are not going to have anywhere near that type of an improvement you know was a 200 basis points I think is what we saw in the year.
So you’re going to be way short of that but again continued improvement though in FMS earnings percentage and driven now more by fleet growth and improvements in the in the core product lines of best to sell in rental as opposed to more of the used vehicle gain side.
So I think that's probably the change.
You’re not going to see a big jump up of 200 basis points anymore but you are going to see continued progress and continued upward movement in margins.
Yeah maybe a better way of asking that would have been what do you think are the incremental margins on that fleet growth? You’re talking about incremental margins percent? Yeah.
Yeah I think you know we’ve talked about in the past is that if you take out gains from the equation and the impact of that you're looking at 60 to 80 basis points improvement year-over-year.
In this year we’re going to get some headwinds from gains so it will bring that number down some but I think as you get into more of a steady-state that's what I would be looking for.
Okay.
And then just the other question I had was you know there's been some of the the kind of the spot data that we can see in the first quarter January wasn't particularly strong and I know you guys have a good feel on near-term changes in the rental business.
Are you seeing any changes slowdown acceleration are you seeing anything out there? Scott this is Dennis.
The answer to your question is no.
You know as we look forward demand is remaining strong utilization is strong so we feel good about the way the year is starting.
Okay thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Art Hatfield with Raymond James.
Hey good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Now my other ones were actually on pension related stuff and I figured out just wait until the K comes out but one question.
Given the success of the buyout that you had this year is that something that you guys would consider going forward to kind of continue to reduce that ongoing long-term pension exposure? Yeah absolutely Art I mean it’s going to depend on the funded status of the plan at the time as well as what are the discount rates you have to use in the buyout offers.
Here there was an opportunity.
You’ve seen a lot in the marketplace now because the discount rates that you could make in the offer were advantageous versus the current rate environment.
So right now that's probably not there as we sit here today in 2015 but who knows down the road and obviously the pension plan has been impacted by the mortality and discount rate changes I talked about earlier.
So funded status has dropped somewhat so we need to see that come up a little bit before we look forward to doing more of these but I think on an ongoing basis as part of our strategy as we’re putting more money into the pension plan we want to be in a good spot three to five years down the road.
Sure.
Can you explain real quick what you mean by the differential in the discount rate that is currently out there and the discount rate you use to do a buyout? Right.
Well the current environment was about let’s say low 4% discount rate environment for the liability but in 2014 you were allowed to offer a settlement using say a 5% discount rate.
Okay that’s helpful.
Right.
Okay thank you.
Thank you Art.
Thank you.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I wanted to make sure I understand what’s going on with maintenance costs.
I mean that's been a tailwind as the fleet ages come down for the past several years but in some of the commentary around the assumptions it kind of implies that the maintenance of the new technology might be shifting towards more of a headwind.
Is maintenance now a year-over-year headwind or it is just that the maintenance is going to step up are you still getting a benefit from the lower fleet age? Yeah I think we’ve been talking the last several quarters really the most of 2014 that we feel we’ve gotten to the end of the benefit if you will as the fleet got younger.
And I would say certainly in the second half of the year if not for a good portion of 2014 maintenance costs are really have been more of a headwind on margins offset generally by maintenance initiatives that we have to get more efficient.
You know this all is all kind of tied together right? Customers are coming to Ryder because this maintenance is getting more complex it’s getting more difficult.
That’s a great thing for our growth prospects.
On the flipside it’s making our life harder but Dennis and his team I think are doing a great job of dealing with it and managing it and we’ve got plans to continue to do that here next year and into the future.
We work very closely with the OEMs on this and we think we are in the best position to deal with this added complexity but yeah you've got it right.
I mean as we move forward maintenance will be more of a headwind as it's been in 2014 and we’ll continue to work on initiatives to make sure that we keep it under control.
And then Robert you have the ability to adjust some of the lease pricing as you get more information about you know your own internal cost to maintain the fleet and then can you go back and try as new leases are coming on you'll price the leases accordingly? Yeah we do that prospectively on an ongoing basis right? So as we learn more about maintenance we adjust the pricing and the model.
You know clearly you have the deal that you’ve signed but I can tell you over the last several years each year and in some cases even more than once a year we’ve made adjustments to the pricing to account for some of the maintenance cost for some of the maintenance cost increases that we’ve seen.
Okay.
And then just my follow up is what should we expect from the cadence of the lease fleet additions and in 2015? 2014 was obviously very backend weighted.
It sounds like you have good momentum based on what you saw in the fourth quarter.
Is 2015 more consistent throughout the quarters or should we expect kind of the same sort of hockey stick on the lease fleet growth? Thanks.
Yeah I think if you look at the last couple of years we've seen the lease fleet really grow heavily in the last quarter and really grow the least in the second quarter.
As we look at 2015 we’re viewing it more flat.
Probably second quarter is still less than the other three quarters but more level across first third and fourth quarter.
And again we’ll see how the second half evolves as sales come in in FMS.
Sure okay that’s all helpful.
Thanks for the time.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Hi it’s actually Ryan Mueller on for Jeff Kauffman.
How is it going? Good.
I want to ask you about the high utilization rate with rental and how much of that high rate is lease customers waiting for their vehicles become available? With the new with the growth that we've had recently obviously the await new lease as we call it has been strong but we’re also seeing as we call it pure rental that is strong.
So if the economy has picked up then as Robert said earlier you know across all segments you’re getting both frankly you're getting increased demand.
It's coming from our leased fleet as it’s growing and sales are strong but you're also seeing as we call it pure rental that’s increasing.
So it’s really both that is growing.
Okay.
With the strong industry orders that we’ve seen over the past year how do you kind of view that in light of strong demand you are seeing for lease growth and do you think these strong orders are driving more capacity into the market I mean I know it’s driver constrained but when see these large order numbers coming in what do you think about it? Yeah I think and I’ll hand it over to Dennis.
I think there’s really strong correlation historically between the two right? As more trucks are built we’re getting our fair share of those.
So people are either buying trucks or they are leasing them but as demand picks up it picks up for everybody and certainly a good portion of what you see from the OEMs we are the largest purchaser so we are certainly coming place in our results but… I’ll just add to that that if you look at our new orders about a third of them are coming from the private fleet conversions.
So it’s not really capacity that’s being added it’s a shift o leasing from the ownership market that's really driving a portion of our sales and we expect to see that continued increase.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
The next question is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Hi in the back of the deck you provided some good analysis on extensions and early terminations within the asset management side and I am wondering can talk a bit about the decrease in extensions and increase in the early terminations? Yeah well the decrease in extensions I think is as some of these vehicles have aged out and also as the new more fuel-efficient technology that the OEMs are bringing out I think are making it more attractive for customers to get into new equipment so that may be a little bit of that and on the early terminations I would say it’s not a meaningful increase I think that’s kind of noise in the machine because we have not seen anything that would alarm us on the early termination side.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thank you John congratulations on your pending retirement.
Thank you.
Robert the growth e-commerce we’ve seen in the past couple years is this possibly making your fourth quarter maybe a little bit stronger than years past how are you guys thinking about that impact on your business? Yeah I think clearly when you look at our rental performance in the fourth quarters you know certainly a portion of that was these parcel companies that we really had a push for rental equipment in the fourth quarter.
So I would say yes in the fourth quarter we benefited from that but if you look at the whole year you know rental was strong through the entire year and different sectors really driving different quarters.
So I would say yes it has contributed to the fourth quarter but I think the overall story is that we are seeing strength in the rental market really across most all sectors.
You know it may be a recently a slowdown a little bit in the oil and gas area.
Okay thank you.
How much exposure do you have to oil and gas industry? 2% I think 2% of our business is oil and gas and not a big exposure.
Not big okay.
And last question here.
Are you seeing any impact in maybe your SCS or any other of your business lines from West Coast port disruptions? The port disruptions John? Yeah now we see some customers have routed around the West Coast either you know the Prince Rupert the Pacific Northwest or to Mexico and we help some of our customers do that.
We arrange transportation and help provide a solution to get their inventory to where it needs to be but it is not a big driver in our financial results one way or the other.
Okay thank you for your time today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Thanks and good morning.
I’ll just ask a quick one because I know we’re about out of time but I was curious on the SCS segment.
Could you speak to the margin expansion that you’re assuming in the 2015 guidance and you know looking ahead do you have a longer-term margin target for this business? Well the margin expansion is driven by two things.
Primarily recovery in the supply chain sector from some of the challenges we had in 2014 and then the growth in dedicated on the dedicated side and better productivity.
So you are going to see improvements there.
You know we have historically said that our goal for margins as the way we are measuring for supply chain was 6.5 to 7 and that was using our own definition for operating revenue which included fuel.
If you back out fuel you probably have to add 100 basis points to that.
So we’re probably more like 7% to 8% under the new measure and I think that’s going to be our target really across both.
You’ll see dedicated and supply chain not huge differences is the profitability percentage of those two.
You’ll be getting that area in the next month or so.
So yeah our targets really remain the same just adjusted for eliminating fuel from the top line.
Okay great.
That’s helpful color.
Thanks Robert I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Hey thanks.
Good morning I’ll squeeze in a quick one here.
I think John may have alluded to it earlier in the call but trying to get a sense for if the overall driver market has improved and is that part of if it has improved part of the more I guess optimistic outlook in terms of your growth at dedicated this year? I would say it’s kind of settled down over the last few months.
You know the driver shortage we've seen is a long-term thing and it’s been more or less severe almost over 20 years in different periods of time.
Right now it’s not so bad like I mentioned earlier our openings is down a number of openings is down and our time to fill jobs is improved as well.
We don't really expect any major change though.
I would expect in the summer as if the economy stays strong we’re going to see the driver shortage heat up again.
We've done a lot so that we can improve our recruiting and make that a competitive advantage.
We think a tough driver market is volatile a little bit of a cost pressure.
It’s a good reason to outsource and so I think the driver market for a long time will drive will be an incentive to outsource and drive growth.
Okay and then I guess just kind of dig in a little bit the improvement that we’re seeing right now do you think that is more a seasonal factor and then things are going to get tight again as we move through this year or do you think part of it is structural and maybe part of it is you know the wage increases that we've seen throughout ‘14 that’s kind of I guess helping the driver market settle a little bit and maybe you’re tracking incremental employees? I can just give you my sense because I can’t really prove any of it but my sense is the wage increase is pushed through by truckload carriers led to some movement earlier in the year and that’s kind of settled down and then there is always a seasonal impact you know this time a year with construction being down that removed some of the pressure from driver hiring and driver turnover and it could be with maybe there's some oil and gas impact this time of the year with construction being down that removed some of the pressure from driver hiring and driver turnover.
And it could be maybe there is some oil and gas impact it is not clear.
And then you know we also saw earlier in the year we saw rail shortages spill over into truckload and that kind of also creates tension in the driver market.
So all that is kind of settled down but like I said before I think that’s temporarily and I do think we’re going to see driver shortages for some time and it will flare up and get much worse when the economy is stronger.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Yep.
Thank you.
The next question is from Casey Deak with Wells Fargo.
Hey thanks for getting me in.
The $0.23 headwind you guys are seeing in strategic investments and other for 2015.
How much of that can you relate to the rollout of on-demand maintenance any systems integration that you’re doing there kind of a getting the billing practice straightened out? Yeah I think a small part of it I would say on the IT side that we’ve spent some money this year and have a little bit of continued spending in 2015 but now I think a lot of it is if you really break it down there are some additional IT work we’re doing primarily in FMS around our maintenance system to make us more efficient and make it more seamless for our customer.
There's a lot of – there’s more money that we’re spending on salespeople adding folks to our sales force to help drive some of the growth and then also some of the marketing spend as you know we've ramped up our marketing efforts here over the last year and a half and we’re beginning to see some nice benefits from that.
So we expect to continue to make some investments there.
So it’s really investments and things that are going to help drive growth.
Okay it seems that still remains pretty much incremental on top of your network.
So with the on-demand maintenance I mean the contract related maintenance growth of 4% this quarter I was expecting a little better from there.
You can give kind of an update on the customer count that you’re seeing in on-demand maintenance and what you’d expect kind of in ’15 and if you’re ahead of schedule or not? Yeah Casey this is Dennis and the answer is we’re ahead of what we expected for this year.
I think we told you around 20 and we’re north of 30 in terms of customers.
We haven’t been driving it real aggressively because we wanted to make sure that the billing process was in order and we expect you know mid-year this year to really put a push on and the interest especially from larger fleets out there who are running units across the country and looking for somebody that can go to giving consistent quality consistent pricing for outsourced maintenance you know we are real attractive to those customers.
So we’re seeing a lot of demand and you are going to see us really push aggressively in the middle of the year.
So we see as being a favorable environment for on-demand growth.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Thanks.
I had a follow-up but I am good.
I’ll let you go.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
The question is on the cash flow guidance and really kind of the CapEx.
In 2015 are you getting towards the end of lapping the two emissions standards for upgrading the fleets or do you have more of that to go into 2016 and going forward? Yeah there’s a little bit more to go I guess we’re obviously we’re going to start replacing more ‘07s and ‘08s as we go forward but I would tell you that there has been decency OEM inflation on the cost even outside of those you know the big changes in ‘07 intensive.
So there's still a decent amount of inflation we’re going to be seeing on vehicles obviously will be less than what we have now if we’re replacing an ’06 but there's still going to be some decent inflation there.
Is there a way to think about the 400 million of higher per unit investment how much of that is related to omissions versus cost inflation? It’s probably two-thirds is emissions I’d say.
We may see it come down by about a third.
Okay good.
That’s what I was looking for.
Thanks for your additional time.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Hi thanks for your letting me having another one here.
Robert I think the last time we talked about how national accounts were reducing your commercial run rates during the course of the year and you're spot on the overall run rate came in at about 4% for the year and then I guess specifically looking at the fourth quarter it was up 3% and so as we think about your rental pricing momentum should we sort of assume that the rental rates will continue to hover around this 2% 3% range and then see an acceleration after some of these national accounts lap in the fourth quarter? Yeah remember we’ve talked about in the fourth quarter we talked about kind of something unusual was happening and that we had extraordinary demand from some of our large national customers you know a lot of these parcel companies and we said that we were going to be muting a bit of the pricing growth rate because of that but we were going to have high utilization because the vehicles the customers took the vehicles early.
That is exactly what happened if you look at our utilization was north of 80%.
So I would say that's a bit of one quarter issue.
For the balance of the year though I expect to see continued pricing increases into 2015 probably more like the 4% rate I think for the year is what we're looking for 2015.
So again continue to clip if you will that we saw in full-year 2014.
Great thanks for that additional color.
All right thanks Tom.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez for closing comments.
Okay well.
We’re 10 minutes past the hour.
I think we were able to get everybody that was in the queue and along with the follow-up questions.
So hopefully we’ve got all the answers questioned and got clarity around the results.
So I appreciate everyone on the call and look forward to seeing you here in the next several weeks as we get up to conferences.
Bye bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder Systems Incorporated First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen-only mode until after the presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I’d like to remind you that during this presentation you will hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning’s earnings release and in Ryder’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today’s call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; and John Diez President of Dedicated Transportation Solutions and Steve Sensing; President of Global Supply Chain Solution are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we’ll recap our first quarter 2015 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
Then we’ll open up the call for questions.
With that let’s turn to an overview of our first quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $8 for the first quarter of 2015 up from $0.92 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.16 or 17%.
Our results came in above our first5 quarter forecast range of $0.95 to $1.
The beat was driven by better than expected rental demand and execution on our maintenance productivity initiatives partially offset by foreign exchange and higher insurance cost.
Also contributing the first quarter outperformance was a net benefit of $0.03 from an atypical fuel pure margin benefit and other onetime items as well as $0.02 in plant marketing spending that was delayed to later in the year.
First quarter comparable results exclude non-operating pension cost of $0.06 and professional fees of $0.02 associated with cost savings initiative.
Operating revenue which excludes fuel and subcontracted transportation revenue was up by 5% to a record $1.3 billion for the first quarter and grew in all business segments.
As a reminder beginning this quarter operating revenue now excludes fuel revenue for all three business segments.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange operating revenue grew at 7% for the quarter.
Total revenue declined primarily due to lower fuel cost passed through to customers.
Page 5 includes some additional financial information for the first quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter was consistent with the prior year at 53.1 million.
During January we bought 69 000 shares at an average price of $88.84 under a 2 million share anti-dilutive repurchase program announced in December of 2013.
To date we purchased 1.4 million shares at an average price of $80.74 under this program.
Following January's repurchase activity we temporarily paused additional share repurchase through at least mid-year as our balance sheet leverage is nearing the high end of our target range.
We are evaluating the timing for resuming anti-dilutive share repurchased in the second half of the year.
Excluding pension cost and other items the comparable tax rate was 37% slightly below our prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost to capital increased 30 basis points to 120 basis points.
On a full year basis we now expect this spread to be in the range of 140 to 150 basis points which is above our prior forecast range of 130 to 140 basis points.
I will turn now to page 6 and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 5% driven mainly by growth in full service lease and commercial rental.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange FMS operating revenue was up 7%.
Full service lease revenue increased 5% or 6% excluding foreign exchange due to higher rates on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology and fleet growth.
One a year-over-year basis the lease fleet grew organically by 4200 vehicles including the planned reduction of 400 low margin trailers in the UK.
Excluding the UK trailer impact the lease fleet grew by 4600 vehicles year-over-year sequentially from the fourth quarter the lease fleet increased by 2000 vehicles which exceeded our expectations.
In addition we had record first quarter lease sales which provided us with continued momentum for lease fleet growth.
Based on the strong sales activity in our pipeline were increasing our full year forecast for lease fleet growth by a 1000 to a 5000 vehicles.
Miles driven per vehicles per day on U.S.
lease power units were unchanged versus the prior year and continued to run at normal historical levels.
The average age of our lease fleet has leveled off as expected following declines over the prior two years.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 10% primarily reflecting the benefit of a significant new contract signed earlier in the year.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew organically by approximately 3 700 vehicles from the prior year reflecting the sales activity.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 5% reflecting sales activity from the last year.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew organically by approximately 4800 vehicles from the prior year and is up a 1000 vehicles sequentially.
Contract related maintenance revenue decreased 5% from the prior year reflecting lower levels of ancillary and transactional maintenance work.
Included in contract related maintenance are 6500 vehicles serviced during the quarter under on-demand maintenance agreements.
This number is up 16% sequentially although it declined year-over-year due to less activity with an individual on-demand customer.
We continue to see good market receptivity of this service and have good potential for future revenue growth as we further develop activity within already signed accounts.
We're finalizing implementation of system and process enablers to support the broader roll out of this product and remain on track for our planned mid-year launch.
Commercial rental revenue was up 8% or 10% excluding FX.
The increase was driven by higher than expected demand and improved pricing in North America.
The average rental fleet grew by 5% from the prior year.
Rental utilization on power units was 73.4% which is consistent with the prior year and reflects ongoing favorable demand trends in rental.
Global pricing on power units was up 5% which was above our expectation of 4%.
In used vehicle sales we say strong demand and pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
We realize an atypical benefit in fuel margin in the quarter due to the rapid and significant fall in fuel prices as wholesale prices fell more quickly than retail prices.
We do not expect a similar earnings benefit in the coming quarters.
Overall FMS earnings increased year-over-year due to strong rental performance higher full-service lease results and increased fuel margin.
Commercial rental performance benefitted from higher than expected demand and higher pricing and a larger fleet.
Better lease results reflect residual value benefits and fleet growth.
Higher year-over-year earnings were partially offset by one time benefits in the prior year.
Earnings before tax in FMS increased 17% reflecting nice leverage on revenue growth.
FMS earnings has___ as percent of operating revenue or 10% up a 100 basis points from the prior year and better than expected.
I'll turn now to dedicated transportation solutions on page 7.
Operating revenue grew by 6% due to new business and higher volumes.
Total revenue was down due to lower fuel cost passed through to customers.
Operating revenue is being impacted in the first half of the year due to the timing of new sales and the ramp-up period of some accounts.
We anticipate operating revenue in the second half will be at or near double-digit levels.
DTS earnings increased due to new business in a higher volumes partially offset by higher insurance cost.
Segment earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 5.4% down 20 basis points from the prior year.
Higher insurance costs negatively impacted EBIT margins by a 100 basis points.
Longer term without targeting DTS three tax margins on operating revenue to be 8-9% up from the prior target of 7-8%.
We anticipate margin improvement to come from growth and leverage on our infrastructure opportunities to drive efficiencies in a dedicated model and addressing a handful of low margin accounts.
I'll turn now to supply chain solutions on page 8.
Operating revenue grew 4% due to new business and higher volumes primarily in technology and the technology in CPG industries.
Higher than expected volumes were partially the result of rerouted shipments to the West Coast port disruption.
Partially offsetting these increases were lost business from the prior year in and the automotive industry and FX.
SCS operating revenue grew 6% excluding foreign exchange.
SCS earnings before taxes were up 20%.
The increase was primarily due to new business higher volumes and lower start up costs partially offset by higher insurance cost.
Segment earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 5.3% up 70 basis points from the prior year.
Page 9 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
At this point I’ll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items beginning with capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 10; first quarter gross capital expenditures were just over $650 million.
It's up 57 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our commercial rental fleet in light of strong demand.
We realized proceeds primarily from the sales of revenue earning equipment of nearly $100 million its down about 30 million from the prior year.
The decrease reflects a lower volume of vehicles sold while pricing remains strong.
Net capital expenditures increased by 19% to $556 million.
Based on strong demand in rental we plan to invest an additional $80 million for growth of an additional 1 000 vehicles or 2% in our rental fleet.
This will increase our forecast for gross capital expenditures to 2.63 billion for the full year up from around from our prior outlook of 2.55 billion.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of around $280 million for the quarter up by 40 million from the prior year.
This increase was driven primarily by higher cash-based earnings.
We generated approximately 390 million of total cash during the quarter up $11 million from the prior year as higher operating cash flow was offset by lower sales proceeds.
Cash payments for capital expenditures decreased by $25 million to 553 million for the quarter.
The companies free cash flow was negative 162 million for the quarter above the prior year of 198 million.
With the additional rental fleet growth now planned free cash flow is expected to be negative $380 million for the year as compared to our prior forecast of negative 300 million.
Page 12 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total obligations of $4.9 billion increased to $184 million from year-end 2014.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter increased to 270% up from 259% at the end of 2014.
Leverage increased due to a vehicle investment and a currency translation adjustment of $57 million during the quarter which resulted in lower equity.
With leverage currently toward the higher end of our target range of 225-275% we elected to temporarily pause our anti-diluted share repurchases during the quarter and will evaluate the timing to resume repurchases in the second half of the year.
We now forecast leverage at year end and the 260-270 range as compared to our prior forecast of 260.
This includes the impact of our increased capital expenditure forecast and the timing of anti-diluted share repurchase resumption.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.81 billion down 7 million from year end 2014 primarily impacted by currency translation adjustments offsetting earnings.
At this point I will hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 14 summarizes key results from our asset management area.
Used vehicle inventory held-for-sale was 5 800 vehicles down from 7 200 units in the prior year and 300 units below the fourth quarter.
Used vehicle inventory was slightly below our target range of 6000 to 8000 vehicles.
Pricing for used vehicles was strong for both tractors and trucks.
Compared with the first quarter 2014 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 14% for tractors and up 11% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 2% and truck pricing was up 8% versus the fourth quarter of 2014.
We saw improved pricing in all used vehicle sales channels.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by 55 units or 4% and remained below recessionary levels.
Early termination of leased vehicles increased by about 80 units and remained well below recessionary levels.
I’ll turn now to page 16 to cover our outlook in our forecast.
We're pleased to start 2015 with such a strong quarter.
We're particularly encouraged by continued momentum in lease sales and fleet growth strong rental demand trends and good execution in our maintenance initiatives.
In full service lease we had two consecutive record sales quarters and way they were bus pipeline were raising our forecast for fleet growth by a 1 000 units to 5 000 vehicles.
We're continuing to see a modest uptake in the percent of lease sales coming from first time outsourced customers with the average over the past year at around a third of new trucks sold.
In rental we plan to modestly increase the size of our fleet based on strong demand conditions.
We now expect our full year average fleet to grow 5% while our outlook for rental pricing remains at about 4% for the year.
In on-demand maintenance we're pleased to continue strong maintenance receptivity in our new service.
We're completing the implementation of IT and process-related work to support a broader launch of this product.
We continue to sign new fleets under on-demand maintenance agreements with over 40 customers signed today and are focused on driving increased levels of maintenance activity with fleets already signed.
We're pleased with the progress we've made in our maintenance productivity initiatives and continue to find ways to mitigate higher maintenance costs associated with new engine technology.
The strong used vehicle pricing results that were realized in 2014 are benefiting depreciation rates this year as these results have blended into our vehicle residual value calculation.
We continue these strong proceeds across all sales channels and good demand conditions.
In supply chain we saw stronger than anticipated revenue in the first quarter.
We’re focused on driving higher sales to offset some of the customer network redesigns that we’ll forecast the pressure revenue later in the year.
We continue to expect strong earnings improvement in SCS as we move passed some of the challenges from last year in that segment.
In the dedicated segment we continue to see good sales activity supported by macro trends and company’s specific initiatives.
We expect DTS operating revenue to grow in the mid single digits for first half and act one year double digits in the second half of the year.
Our second quarter comparable EPS forecast is a $1.58 to $1.63 versus the prior year $1.44 and reflects the impact of higher expected insurance cost in DTS.
Based on our strong first quarter performance and outlook we’re increasing our full year comparable EPS forecast to a range of $6.40 to $6.55 up $0.15 from $6.25 to $6.40.
This represents a year-over-year increase of 15% to 17%.
That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
In order to give everyone an opportunity I’ll ask you to limit yourself to one question and one related follow up if clarification is needed.
If you have additional questions you’re welcome to get back in the queue and we’ll take as many calls as we can.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator instructions].
The first question today is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone and congratulations on a good start to the year.
Robert maybe just to start with the increase in the guidance and you’ve given us some broad brochures but if we think about the $0.15 at both ends.
Can you help us think about the buckets that are driving that how much of that would be rental how much of that would be FMS and then it also sounds like that there is some headwinds on the insurance side I mean how much is insurance working against you in the $0.15 increase.
Yes.
The beat in the forecast or the raise in the forecast is primarily coming from FMS and I would say that’s really spread across rental which we continue to see benefits there and full service resource in the lease fleet increased as well as we’re also getting better than expected maintenance cost improvements.
So the combination of those three you can always look them as a generally evenly spread across those or what’s driving the benefit.
There is some headwind for insurance that’s still is TBD but we’re probably looking at for the next quarter for probably looking at $0.01 or $0.02.
Okay that helps.
And then it looks like the gains are at least maybe up a little bit kind of flattish year-over-year I think in you original guidance you actually had them being about the $0.07 headwind are gains now user equipment gains trends better than what you were expecting with your initial guidance is that factored into the updated guidance here.
They’re really not trending a whole lot better it’s really a balance of years we expected to get more some headwinds side we still think that’s coming and that’s fixed into our forecast.
And then just for my follow up you know with leverage where it’s right now it’s kind of a good time to have at least a reason why you’re having a promise good CapEx side.
Are there any other leverage that you can pull with respect to cash flow other than you suspending the entire diluted share repurchased to kind of adjust the leverage on a near term basis or anything else you can do from a balance sheet from a cash flow perspective sales respects that can help the leverage near term.
Yes.
What we have from sales respects certainly planned but that’s not going to affect it significantly I think also as you might have measured a lot of our capital is really for vehicles for lease and for rentals.
So there are too many other lavers as part of this… Yes I know Robert is right.
Obviously sales aspect shouldn’t affect the leverage metric overall as we look forward it depends on what happens with retention that maybe a laver if it turns in our favor as we look forward also just the business itself around working capital like the better we can manage working capital that will also help leverage.
Okay.
But its timing for now its investing in the field and cash flow will come later on.
Yes absolutely.
This is all good stuff because we're really seeing record lease sales and that's what's driving me the capital along with strong rental demand which is also driving some additional capital.
Thank you.
The next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
So wanted to ask you about the on-demand and I know you -- I think you said you're planning a broader role out in the middle of the year.
Can you tell us how big of a market is this potentially for you and how quickly do you think the revenue can [indiscernible].
Any color do you have on kind of a margin profile of the business? You all let me just answer briefly just so you know where we're at.
We've been talking about a midyear rollout here probably since last year.
There is a lot of IT and process work we needed to get done.
The IT work is done it's been rolled out.
We're now really working on the process and making sure that we got the right engagement from the field on all this.
So we are -- we feel pretty well positioned for the -- a midyear rollout.
The market for this we think is pretty significant and it is -- if you think about 8 million vehicles there is only about 10% that are currently outsourced the rest of those are due in maintenance somewhere with somebody.
They are either doing it themselves or they're going to a dealership and that’s the market that we can tap into for this and I'll let Dennis elaborate on it but you know because we are really focussing initially on some of the very large fleets that otherwise would not be doing business would not be full service leasing.
So we think this is an opportunity to get in with them but.
Yes.
It is Scott.
I would just add that there is a lot of interest in these large fleets.
When you think about running your fleet across North America and dealing with hundreds if not thousands of other vendors and it being able to go to more of a one stop shop with rider where you got consistent quality and potentially lower cost and getting better uptime there is a lot of interest.
So we've been preparing ourselves to handle that demand.
We’re pretty excited about it and we'll be rolling it out in a larger way here midyear.
I think you answered the question about how quickly we think you can ramp up and one of the things we're leaning -- we've been as you know working on this for a couple of years is that you have to first find the customer.
And then you've got to get the trucks to come in and we think we're pretty well positioned for that because we got a pretty broad field operation.
We've got people locally that can speak to the local managers to get the vehicles in but it is that two-phase type process that we are currently working on even for the 40 customers we have to get that.
So we think the volume for the 40 still has a lot of opportunity and we're going to be working on that and really hoping to drive some of the second quarter I'm sorry the second half increase in on-demand.
And in margins? Margin is a lot getting into the details.
I would expect it slightly higher than what you see in our current which is 30 and if you look at -- if you look at our rental and lease margin gross margins are about 30%.
So we would expect this to be higher.
But obviously last commitment from the customer and also less revenue per vehicle because we're not going to be doing all the maintenance on the vehicle we're just going to be doing smaller pieces of it.
Okay.
And then in terms of the rental fleet so I understand that things go really good.
This is historically a segment where things can turn quickly and may be we're -- may be we're getting a little bit later in the cycle.
Talk us through the rationale of why you feel comfortable adding to the fleet now and then how quickly you think you could turn off that spigot if you need to.
Let me address first the cycle issue because I think this cycle has been very different than any other cycle.
At least I -- since I've been with the company.
It's been a much slower recovery since '09 and much more elongated and I would tell you even though we've had -- we've got a pretty good economic environment.
It still feels like we haven’t really had a strong recovery yet.
So we're seeing very good demand trends across many sectors.
I wouldn’t say it's not even just one and we're seeing broad increases in demands.
I think that’s what's making us more comfortable.
We do some econometric modeling and the econometric modeling shows even with we're not up 2.5 to 3% GDP growth that we still should have the demand to cover the vehicles that we're adding but Dennis could you add some more color? Yes Scott.
First let me address the demands items and what we're seeing.
With the lease fleet growth above what we had originally forecast we've got to support those vehicles with rental vehicles.
So that's one driver of the demand.
Next you've got on-demand that we just talked about; as it increases you also got a need by those customers for rental vehicles.
And finally as we looked at our turn downs in the first quarter they were above where we would like them to be.
And through one of the lower of those per customer satisfaction purposes and frankly its revenue we will deal on the table.
So that's the demand side.
And those are turned down being able to respond to that.
You've got two major levers to pull.
First is to out-service or get vehicles prepared for the used-vehicle sales when they are older in the rental fleet and we've been delaying a lot of that because the demand has been so significant.
When you look at used vehicle inventory it's at the low end of the range.
It's below our target range of 6000 to 8000.
So we could quickly de-fleet through the out-servicing process.
In addition where you will take those used vehicle in rental and sell them into a lease application if you want to de-fleet and not back to other rental unit.
So we get those two levers to pull.
And in 2012 we saw a downturn in demand we did just that and it took us well under six months to get the fleet right sized.
So we feel pretty comfortable with our position to right size the fleet quickly.
The next question is from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to ask the following with regard to rental.
It's great to see that this business has done well.
I am curious in terms of the timing of delivery of the CapEx and then where the trucks are? Are you planning to deploy them in terms of region or industries? Thomas it's Dennis.
First in terms of delivery we will see a few of them in the third quarter and the majority will be in the fourth quarter in that third and fourth quarter.
So we will see the impact in the second half.
In terms of the demand we're seeing it across the U.S.
and Canada.
So we will be deploying them to all of the regions and we're seeing it as Robert mentioned earlier across several industries.
So it is broad-brushed in terms of the demand increase.
And you will see it really help us during the peak holiday season.
And again some I am just wondering what is the theoretical maximum utilization rate? I am wondering like how much could you actually continue so that the assets and maybe drive up utilizations to 80% to 85% and then perhaps try to keep CapEx down? I think we’ve kind of talked about this before.
But if you just help here remind us how that could potentially -- what you could potentially do just maybe drive utilization higher? Let's talk about utilization over the whole year right.
And I think you've seen when we get up in that high 70s utilization that's when turned down that Dennis just alluded to start to get too high.
So our existing customers are unable to get access to our rental trucks becomes a problem for us.
So we think that high 70s is probably the upper limit high 70s.
And as you start touching 80 you're probably getting too high and the turn downs are too much.
The next question is from David Ross with Stifel.
Can you talk a little bit on FMS how much would the lease fleet growth is due to better than expected growth at SCS and dedicated or just overall how much the growth and supply chain dedicated to driving the lease fleet growth.
And then just a clarification question I guess in SCS on the insurance cost.
I would have thought insurance cost is a bigger issue and dedicated in that supply chain to just kind of where those would be coming from whether it is BIPD or worker's comps something else? The lease we grow -- supply chain dedicated combined are about 10% of the FMS lease fleet.
So I think it's been growing proportional.
I don’t think there has been a disproportional amount.
When you combine the two I don’t think there is a disproportional amount of growth.
And Art can you answer that question on insurance? Around the insurance David it's more of the function of the supply chain and the prior year we had favorable development in prior year claims whereas this year we didn’t see that same favorable development.
So it wasn’t so much that the current year was going the wrong way.
We just didn’t have as much of a profit year-over-year.
And it was related to both vehicle liability and workers comp.
The next question is from Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
With regard to the leverage and comments around the leverage here does it preclude any sort of acquisition we haven’t spoken about acquisitions and for little while we’ve been focus on the lease fleet growth obviously we have momentum there.
Just wondering if there is an opportunity for an acquisition within FMS to materialize does they cannot say the balance sheet preclude that have some opportunity could you address that.
Yes.
Ben I don’t know where – we don’t see it is really been a constraint remember the FMS acquisitions in typically accrete of immediately there is a low integration risk there is a not a whole lot of risk in those.
We don’t see leverage levels that we are at now to be in an issue.
Okay.
And are there any further or closer to potential deal on the FMS side like it’s been a little while we have addressed it so I know they come as they come but how do you feel about potential acquisition? Yes.
You know Ben I can’t comment anything like that but I can tell they do come as they come and we’re certainly always first or typically the first one to call the ones available and we’re pretty good at doing these deals when the time is right.
So we’re certainly ready for them it’s just a matter of when the sellers are ready.
Okay if I could get one quick follow up on the used truck sales side.
What is the mix of retail versus wholesale disposals this quarter relative to year a ago and maybe can you give us a target as to what you’re expecting for the full year.
What’s embedded in the guidance? Yes.
Ben we were at 74% for the quarter that’s up 500 basis points year-over-year and you know our target is north of that 70% in that range.
So we’re right there right now and obviously with inventory being low we continue to push more retail mix in benefit from the proceeds.
The next question is from John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Robert may I ask you on the lease fleet guide and [indiscernible] 5000 trucks.
How you are thinking about the sales pipeline you did at 4600 in the first quarter.
Just trying to conceptualize if that’s just kind of frontend loaded sales cycle but you see that benefits over the course of the year or that’s a number that theoretically just keep ticking up every quarter as you get closer to closing to these deals from the back half.
Yes.
Remember that if you think about the last year it was pretty lumpy right.
You had some growth in the first quarter then we were down in the second slight flat and slightly down and then we really started growing in the second half of the year.
So the year-over-year comps get tighter in the second half but the 5000 is based on what we’ve seen today and some expectation for the balance of the year.
Could it get better absolutely? But I think we’re early in the year so we still have to kind of let the year revolve.
But John also keep in mind the 4600 you are referring could be the year-over-year increase in our fleet.
So the fleet itself is up 2000 unite in Q1 and our full year target is 5000.
So we still have some work to go to get to the 5000.
Sure.
That’s fair.
And let me ask you too on the guidance in regards to on demand roll out some point in the middle of the year is that included is any kind of accretion from that included in the guidance now or any kind of ramp up that you would see in the back after the year kind of great deal on top of the guindace.
Yeah.
That’s included if you remember on the last call we had the water fall we had about $0.15 coming from [indiscernible] other things.
So that’s consistent we’re still consistent with that amount.
Okay.
So no changes there.
No changes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
On the maintenance side have you been approved yet to do any warranty work for the OEMs or is the third party maintenance going to be just kind of non-warranty oriented stuff.
John we have been approved for warranty work? Can you elaborate on which OEM’s? No I don’t want to get into that but we have been approved for warranty work and we’re doing that today.
The OEMs that you have been approved for is more or less than 50% of the name [indiscernible] that are out there.
I would answer this way it’s the majority fo the name plates that we have in our fleet and we typically do the business with.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Can you talk a little bit about in terms of the roll out of this can you talk about how you do it number of locations at a time is it kind of a phased in deal? Is it the entire network that you are doing this through? Can you just elaborate a little more on that? Yes John what we do is again we’re targeting large fleets and we’ll negotiate with the given customer a labor rate and the parts rate; and the labor rate is based on geography.
And once that’s established we open up literally the entire network.
Now some of our shops are more prepared than others and that’s exactly we’ve been working on and then it gets down to working the change management if you will on a decentralized basis where you get fleets comfortable with using our shops versus the vendors that they were using historically.
We liken it to what we did with national rental several years ago where we would sign a national rental agreement and then you need to literally sell locally those customers to utilize your rental capability.
Even though you’ve got a national headquarters negotiated agreement you got to drive demand locally and that’s literally how it works it on demand.
We sign a national headquarters driven agreement and then we need to get folks comfortable with our maintenance on a local basis and that’s exactly what we’re doing.
And then my last question on the rental you’re talking about taking delivery most of the increase in rental equipment in some in 3Q but a lot in 4Q what tides you over between now and then to kind of meet those needs? Is it do you anticipate maybe slowing down the number of vehicles being pumped through the sales channel? Do you put any of that equipment maybe coming off a lease into rental for a short period until you take delivery of this equipment? Just how do you go ahead and start maybe not missing some of the revenue opportunities that you talked about? You read our playbook.
We do just that.
We take units coming off the lease and we won’t out-service them.
We’ll put them into the rental fleet if they got more life.
We’ll delay the out-servicing of units which we’re very cautious of because we got demand obviously in the used vehicle side more at the low end of the inventory target range that we got but that’s exactly we do to increase units available for rental we’ll do what we call a least to rental so units coming up lease we’ll put them into the rental fleet and we’ll delay the out-servicing of older piece of equipment in the rental fleet.
Should we then slow down the amount of forecasted truck sales given that I mean -- I'm just trying to get an idea on the kind of the gives and takes in the model if you are keeping more for rental then maybe slowing down on the sales side? I mean how best to model that? John that’s in the math already.
From used vehicle point of view we’ve already factored that in.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Can you just remind us the fuel service revenue and the profits related to that? Is that all reported within FMS or does that -- is there some fuel profits that get booked at SCS or DTS? Well in terms of where they get booked there is some that gets booked in DTS and supply chain and they get eliminated total but it all runs through FMS and in terms of what happened in the quarter I’ll just elaborate a little bit on that is that there was a big drop in fuel pricing when there was a significant drop that quickly usually wholesale prices drop quicker than retail.
We do have some of our customers that are on a more of a market based price if you think about our rental customer our rental customers and things like that.
And we got a benefit a one-time benefit I would say because of that rapid drop but we don’t expect that to recur.
And typically when it goes the other way retail moves up more quickly in line with wholesale.
And then Robert I think you mentioned that there was some I think benefit from West Coast port congestion situation and what you do in SCS.
I'm just curious to hear if that was meaningful in terms of SCS margin in the quarter? Yes not-not I wouldn’t say it’s very meaningful.
There was – certainly had some benefit because of the disruption as you know when things get a little hairier in our business it usually gives an opportunity to show what we can do and this was one of those cases but no I wouldn’t say it was a meaningful number and I’d say that we really expect that to be primarily behind us going forward.
And then you touched on it in terms of the rental fleet maybe getting a little bigger this year part of that is to support what’s going on in the on demand push that it’s going to pick up as the year progresses.
So it sounds like we’re getting some opportunities to cross the commercial run product into these on demand customers.
Maybe if you could just touch on some of the other products that you potentially see as a good fit for these on demand customers and kind of the cross selling opportunities.
The other way it is.
It’s really increased demand not only from on demand but also from existing lease.
Our new lease customers also have been driving that.
But in terms of cross selling opportunities John if you want to go through some of the…..
Yes I mean it’s as you’ve customers coming in for maintenance math.
We also look at selling fuel for example and then as they get comfortable with the quality of our maintenance they get to know us.
Then we look at contract maintenance and even selling up the full service lease or maybe they were interested in it before.
So it really is an opportunity for us to open the door to that 90% of the market that doesn’t outsource today and sell on variety of services.
Thank you.
The next question is from Justin Long with Stephens.
Hey guys congrats on the quarter.
This is actually Bryan taking the call for Justin today.
But I was just wondering switching over to dedicated could you just provide an update on the pipeline you are saying in that business I know focus area has been trying to convert full service lease customer and dedicated contracts and do you think that conversion activity can accelerate in the next few quarters? Yes.
Let me just give you an idea of where we are at and then I’ll pass it over to John.
One of the exciting drivers for growth and dedicated for us has been this opportunity to up sell customers who are in full service lease to dedicate it.
We saw great activity in 2013 we saw another great year actually 2013 and 2014 in terms of the amount of these collaboration type sales or up selling.
So we think they are still more opportunity to do even more and Dennis team along with John’s team are working collaboratively to find where we can help customers by having them outsource more of this activity including in this case we include the driver to write us.
So we think we’re still probably early in the process of continued to grow that business.
Its not going to happen overnight.
It’s going to be multi-year effort.
But I think now John’s team working Dennis have got a lot of opportunity to continue to build on that so John.
If you want to… Yes Bryan this is John.
Just a few things to add there one of the things we continue to see is the macro trends out there in the industry are really helping us.
So if you look at the pin points around drivers you look at the pin points around capacity as well as safety performance for some of our prospects that continues to drive higher levels of sales activity for.
So the pipeline has grown and continues to grow.
But going back to what Robert said around collaboration we do continue to see good momentum.
We’ve seen two consecutive years of the increase growth from collaboration sales.
We expect that to continue in 2015 and as we gain momentum we’ll see that continue to accelerate.
Alright thanks and just as a follow up.
I know you guys recently rolled out the improved cost of ownership tool.
But could you frame up how this is improved your ability to reach out potential customers? Maybe if you can just speak to the cost of ownership events they had last year and how many trucks that would represent or any other way you could help us get some perspective on the additional touch points that great.
If we look we’ve talked about third of our growth coming from privately conversions.
I would tell you that a good chunk of that is really is a result of our TCO model or TCO tool because what it does is allows our sales person to have a discussion around the facts where the customers has an ownership has to suppose an emotional discussion of what they think it should be versus what it is.
So there is a lot more fact based discussion around what the ownership costs are versus what Ryder could potentially do the activity for and we are finding that we typically can find ways to bring value cost savings to customers early on an addition to the incremental service.
So I would say that we’re still early in the process in terms of continuing to leverage that tool.
But we’ve have seen meaningful benefits from it certainly in 2014 and I would tell you that a good portion of that third – fourth business that’s coming from ownership is as a result of the TCO tool so Dennis do you want to add to that.
Yes I’d just add to your comments Robert that we found with our customers that as the acquisition price and the maintenance cost have increased for the new technology vehicles.
This is becoming a more significant part of the cost base that our customers are seeing so you’ve got the finance department and CFOs that are seeing this are concerned about it and so when we come in and typically historically had a sale to the transportation department of the company.
Now we’re elevating the discussion with the TCO tool to the CFO in the finance group and as a result the dialog is different than we’ve had in the past.
It’s a richer discussion around the total cost of the vehicle so we’re seeing a lot of opportunities from ownership customers that we didn’t see before.
Thank you.
The next question is from Casey Deak with Wells Fargo.
Just go back to the lease fleet guidance.
The increase that you have there how much of it would you say comes from existing customers versus any competitor conversions versus what you’ve been talking about with the new outsource clients? I’m really just trying to get a take on the health of your core client base as it looks for the remainder of the year.
Yes remember a third of it is customers that are new to outsourcing.
The rest of the two-thirds I would tell you the larger percentage is with new customers.
I would – on a net basis our existing customer base I would tell you is beginning to grow a little bit but still not a meaningful part of the growth because at a 2% -- I guess we’re looking at 2.5 maybe to 3% GDP growth.
I wouldn’t expect there to be growth in the existing customers fleets.
We’ve always said we’re probably and along with OEMs we’re looking at 3% to maybe 4% GDP growth before you would see something like that.
So I would say there’s still the majority of it is customers new to outsourcing and then new customers that we’re winning from competition.
And just a quick follow up on that.
Where would you say the biggest impact you’re getting from your enhanced marketing efforts is it in the dedicated area? Is it just lease customers coming over? Can you comment a little bit on that where it’s helping you the most? Yes I think I’d say it’s really across the board because remember that this campaign is an awareness campaign right it’s to help the market understand all the different services that Ryder offers.
So now if you look at total number of leads the majority of them or the larger percentage are going to go to FMS but that’s where the larger customer base in market is.
But it really is helping all three segments and helping to explain all the services that Ryder can offer and all the ways that we can help companies with their fleet management supply chain activities.
So I would say it’s really having an impact from a lead standpoint it’s having an impact across all three.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Just some quick detail questions.
Of those 42 000 rental vehicles how would you ballpark how many of those should be supporting full service lease and where is that number today? Whether you look at as a percentage or how you think about it? Well that number fluctuates but I’ll let Dennis give you the stats of where we’re at now.
Yes so if we Jeff if we look what we call lease support and then we call it pure rental for customers it’s not related to lease support.
For first quarter 41% was for lease support and 59% was for the pure rental customers and we’re seeing growth in both.
We’re sourcing demand for pure rental and for lease support and obviously the lease support is being driven by the lease fleet count that we’ve discussed earlier but again 41% 59% respectively.
And where will we see those ratios kind of hover in? What do you consider to be kind of a normal level of lease support? It’s in that target that 40-60 range.
I mean it could go to 30% or it could go the other way depending on how much demand we have from our lease customers right.
If you kind of look at it from the standpoint of the first call if you will with lease customers.
We have a lease agreement and we're using rental vehicles to support that.
The pure rental market is a very big market.
And we use that really not only to grow as the market grows but also to fill in when cust-owned vehicles are available from a lease customer.
Okay and just to follow up on that I tracked vehicles on revenue per vehicle and I think one of the few things that surprised me the other way this quarter was it looked like that average revenue per vehicle dropped.
In terms of the growth rate I'd seen most of last year versus first quarter this year closer to between 1% and 2% depending on whether it was rental or lease.
Could you help me understand whether that was more a kind of the uptick is the numbers because you added a lot of vehicles or where there may be unusual circumstances because you did mention in your comments that you thought that the average revenue per vehicle probably be up about 4% for the year? Are you talking about the rental fleet or on the lease fleet? I am actually throwing both of them in there but I got about 2% on lease and 1% on rental I was just a little surprised by that.
Yes that could be a lot.
It could be mix I mean if you look at our rate FX is another piece.
Our rate per vehicle in rental we know it's a 5%.
So it's just what we are charging per vehicle per day.
And then in terms of what else could be affecting it it could be mix.
You could have more light duty or trailers versus trucks in any one period.
You could have some of that.
But other than that you know there is no -- you saw something that we're holding on or worried about.
Okay so when you talk about 4% you're talking about the rate per vehicle and you're not making any call on the mix of vehicles? Correct rate per vehicle per day in rental.
So if you think about what's the cost of rental truck for a day it's up 4%.
The next question is from Kristine Kubacki with Avondale Partners Most of my questions have been answered.
I just found a follow up and forgive me if I missed this.
On the contract related maintenance and the decline there you mentioned in your comments about an individual customer that didn’t repeat the sales.
I am wondering if you can give us a little bit more color there? And was that expected in the quarter? Yes Kristine we're in the pilot phase still if you will on this.
We have a handful of customers that whatsoever now 30 to 40 customers that we're dealing with.
This is one of the earlier customers and there has just been a volume drop-off as they've done different things with different parts of their fleet.
So it’s not really something of much concern.
Our focus is really going after all the additional customers that we've added and bringing more of their vehicles into our facilities and this customer over time could bring those vehicles back also.
Thank you.
And I am currently showing no questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Robert Sanchez for closing remarks.
Okay thanks everyone for being on the call.
We're right near the top of the hour.
Hopefully you got a good flavor of where things are added.
It's a great quarter and these are looking pretty favorable for us at this point.
So we are excited about the balance of the year.
So hopefully we will see you guys in the next few months and have a safe day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder Systems Inc Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen-only mode until after the presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
Today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder’s second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I’d like to remind you that during this presentation you will hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning’s earnings release and in Ryder’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today’s call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; John Diez President of Dedicated Transportation Solutions and Steve Sensing; President of Global Supply Chain Solution are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we’ll recap our second quarter 2015 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
Then we’ll open up the call for questions.
With that let’s turn to an overview of our second quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.65 for the second quarter 2015 up from $1.44 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.21 or 15%.
Our results came in above our second quarter forecast range of $1.58 to $1.63.
The beat was driven largely by better than expected supply chain results.
Second quarter comparable results exclude non-operating pension costs of $0.05 and professional fees of $0.02 which were partially offset by $0.03 benefit from tax law changes.
Operating revenue which excludes fuel and subcontracted transportation revenue was up by 6% to a record 1.4 billion for the second quarter and increased in all business segments.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange operating revenue grew by 8% in the quarter.
Total revenue decline primarily due to lower fuel costs faster to customers as well as foreign exchange.
Page five includes some additional information for the second quarter.
The number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased the 53.3 million shares up from the 53 million shares in the prior year.
In January we temporarily pause share repurchase activity because our balance sheet leverage was near in the high-end of our target range of 225 to 275 because our leverage still near the high-end of our range share repurchase activity remains temporarily paused.
We’ll evaluate resuming anti-dilutive share repurchases later in the year.
Excluding pension cost and other items the comparable tax rate was 37.2% consistent with the prior year.
The comparable tax rate was in-line with our expectations for the quarter and did not results an EPS our performance during the quarter.
Page six highlights key financial statistics on a year-to-date basis.
Operating revenue was up 5% to 2.7 billion comparable EPS from continuing operations were 2.73 up 16% from the prior year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost to capital widen to 140 basis points up by 50 basis points from the prior year driven primarily by higher leverage.
On a full year basis we now expect this spread to be at least a 150 up from our prior forecast of 140 to 150 basis points.
I will turn now to page seven and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 6% driven mainly by the growth in fully service fleets and commercial revenue.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange FMS operating revenue was up 8%.
Full service lease revenue increased 5% or 7% excluding foreign exchange due to fleet growth and higher rates on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology.
Excluding the planned reduction of 300 low margin trailers in the UK the lease fleet grew organically by 6 000 vehicles year-over-year.
Sequentially from the first quarter the lease fleet increased by 1 300 vehicles excluding UK trailers.
In addition we had a record lease sales for the third consecutive quarter which provides us with continued momentum for lease fleet growth.
Based on our strong sales activity and pipeline we are now expecting the full year lease fleet growth of 5 000 to 6 000 vehicles above our prior forecast of 5 000 vehicles.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units were unchanged versus the prior year and continue to run at normal historical levels.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 6% reflecting strong sales activity last year.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew organically approximately 2 300 vehicles from the prior year but was down 1 400 vehicles sequentially due to our customers loss in the quarter.
Looking ahead we expect nice fleet growth in this product line as we sign a significant new customer in July that will more than offset the customer loss during the second quarter.
Contract related maintenance revenue was unchanged from the prior year included in contract related maintenance our 8 300 vehicles serviced during the quarter under on demand maintenance agreements an increase of 28% both from the prior year and sequentially.
We have now signed 50 on demand customers and have significant opportunity to increase volumes within these accounts as well as add new customers.
Commercial rental revenue was up 8% for the quarter or 10% excluding foreign exchange.
The increase was driven by higher demand and pricing in North America.
Rental revenue growth was particularly strong in the U.S.
which was up 13% for the quarter.
Rental revenue grew by 9% with our lease customers and by 7% with our rental only customers.
The average rental fleet grew by 6% from the prior year.
Rental utilization on power units was 78.1% consistent with the prior year.
Utilization increased by nearly 80 basis points in the U.S.
but was offset by lower utilization in the UK to some unusual vehicle replacement activity global pricing on power units was up 4% in line with our expectations.
To date rental trends remain favorable for the month of July with the majority of the growth units already placed into service.
In used vehicle sales we saw strong demand in pricing.
I will discuss these results separately in the few minute.
Overall FMS earnings increased year-over-year to the higher full service lease results in strong rental performance.
Better lease results reflect fleet growth and vehicles residual value benefits.
Commercial rental performance benefitted from strong demand and higher pricing on larger fleet.
These benefits were partially offset by strategic investments in sales and marketing and technology.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased 8%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 12.8% up 30 basis points from the prior year.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted pretax earnings percent in FMS by 20 basis points.
I will turn now to dedicated transportation solutions on page eight.
Operating revenue grew by 6% due to new business higher volumes and increased pricing.
Total revenue was down 4% due to lower fuel costs passed through to customers.
DTS earnings decreased during the quarter primarily due to higher self insurance costs partially offset by new business.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 7% down 80 basis points from the prior year.
Self insurance cost negative impacted EBT margins by approximately 140 basis points.
We expect improved margin comparisons in the second half for the year driven by new business as we move fast the high insurance cost we experienced during the first half of 2015.
I will turn now to supply chain solutions on page 9.
Operating revenue grew by 6% to the higher volumes in new business especially in the consumer package goods and technology sectors as well as higher pricing partially offsetting these benefits was loss business from the prior year in the automotive industry and foreign exchange.
SCS operating revenue grew 9% excluding FX.
SCS earnings before taxes were up 56% the increase was due primarily the higher pricing lowest startup cost which normalizes compare to the prior year and higher volumes.
These benefits were partially offset by higher compensation cost.
While we expect supply chains year-over-year earnings to be up in the second half we don't anticipate the same magnitude of an increase as comparisons will move fast last year startup cost issues.
Segment earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 8.7% in the quarter up 280 basis points from the prior year.
Page 10 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for reference.
Page 11 reflects our year-to-date results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won’t review these result in detail but I will just highlight some bottomline results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were 145.6 million up 16% from the prior year.
At this point I will turn the call over our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items including capital spending.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 12; year-to-date gross capital expenditures were approximately $1.5 billion.
It's up nearly 200 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our lease and commercial rental fleets in light of new lease sales activity and a strong rental demand environment.
We realized proceeds primarily from the sale of revenue earning equipment of $212 million down 63 million from the prior year.
The decrease reflects expected lower volumes of vehicle sold with a smaller inventory and a change in mix of unit sold.
Pricing by vehicle class has remained strong.
We also executed a $156 million sale lease back transaction during the quarter.
Net capital expenditures increased by 11% to $1.1 billion.
As outlined in the press release we’re evaluating whether the structure of both the second quarter and prior year sale lease back transactions qualify for off balance sheet treatment as currently reported.
If they don't we would add back approximately $365 million of revenue earning equipment and debt onto the balance sheet.
If made the change in treatment would not be material to our reported financials including net earnings in any individual period.
And would not materially impact our total obligations or total obligations to equity metrics as off balance sheet leases were always included in these measures.
Mostly importantly the accounting treatment does not change the economic benefit to riders funding cost from these transactions.
We expect to finalize the accounting treatment for inclusion in our second quarter 10-Q which will be filed on or before August 10th.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of around $650 million during the first half for the year up by a 109 million.
The increase was driven primarily by the timing of pension contributions and higher cash based earnings.
We generated just over a $1 billion of total cash year-to-date up 200 million from the prior year as the sale lease back in higher operating cash flow more than offset lower used vehicle sales proceeds.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by $74 million to 1.3 billion year-to-date.
Company’s free cash flow was negative 281 million year-to-date above the prior year of negative $410 million if we determine that the sale lease back transactions do not qualify for off balance sheet treatment reported free cash flow would be approximately $430 million negative year-to-date.
Additionally our full year free cash flow forecast was moved to negative 630 million as compared with the prior forecast of negative 389.
Page 14 addresses our debt to equity position.
Total obligations of $5.2 billion increased by around 470 million from year end 2014.
Total obligations as a percent to equity at the end of the quarter increased to 270% up from 259% at the end of 2014.
Leverage increased primarily due to vehicle investments as well as foreign exchange.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.9 billion up 95 million from year end 2014 primarily due to earnings.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 16 summarizes key results from our asset management area.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 5 900 vehicles down from 6 300 vehicles in the prior year and 100 vehicles above the first quarter.
Used vehicle inventory is at the low end of our target range of 6 000 vehicles to 8 000 vehicles.
Pricing from used vehicles was strong for both tractors and trucks.
Compared with the second quarter of 2014 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 10% for tractors and up 11% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was up 5% and truck pricing was up 4% versus the first quarter of 2015.
We saw improved pricing in all vehicle sales channels.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by around 765 units or 23% year-to-date and is well below recessionary levels.
This reflects a lower number of lease contract explorations this year.
Early terminations of leased vehicles increased by about 120 units year-to-date but remains well below recessionary levels.
I’ll turn now to page 18 and cover our outlook and forecast.
We're pleased with the performance this quarter and year-to-date.
We're particularly encouraged by continued momentum in lease sales and fleet growth strong rental demand and pricing trends and improved performance in our supply chain business.
In full service lease we've had three consecutive record sales quarters and with a robust pipeline expected to grow by 5 000 vehicles to 6 000 vehicles this year above our prior forecast of 5 000 vehicles.
We continue to see around a third of new truck leases coming from customers new to outsourcing and are now also seeing nice growth from further penetration within current customer accounts.
In rental we're pleased with strong demand and pricing trends that have continued into July.
We now expect our full year average fleet to grow 6% versus the prior forecast of 5% while our outlook for rental pricing remains at 4% increase for the year.
Rental was benefiting from new customers.
We're adding in lease and on demand as most of those new customers are now renting trucks from us.
We've also increased our penetration into large national rental only accounts which provide good demand as well as better visibility into future rental needs.
Finally we're seeing some private fleet renting a greater proportion of their overall fleet needs due to capital constraints stemming from higher vehicle purchase cost and a desire for increased flexibility.
We're pleased with the continued strong market receptivity for our new on demand maintenance service.
We've completed the IT work to support expansion of the product.
We're increasing the sales team who can sell on demand we'll be introducing it to a significant prospect pool at a large carrier conference we're holding next month.
We also have significant opportunities to realize higher volumes within the 50 fleets already signed to-date.
We're pleased with the progress we've made on our maintenance productivity initiatives and continue to find ways to mitigate higher maintenance cost associated with the new engine technology.
In used vehicle sales we continue to see solid demand conditions for most vehicle types and strong pricing across all sales channels.
In supply chain we're expecting revenue and earnings growth rates to slow in the second half reflecting network redesigns at some customers and some lost business.
In the dedicated segment we expect single digit revenue growth -- high single digit revenue growth and improved earnings comparisons in the second half driven by new sales and improved self-insurance expense.
Our third quarter comparable EPS forecast is a $1.82 to $1.87 versus the prior year of $1.63.
Based on our second quarter performance we’re raising the low-end of our full year comparable EPS forecast range.
The new range is a $1.64 to a $1.55 per share compared to the previous range of $6.40 to $6.55 a share.
This represents a year-over-year increase of 16% to 17% we’ll correct that.
The new range is 6.45 to 6.55 per share compared to the previous range of 6.40 to 6.55 a share.
This represents a year-over-year increase of 16% to 17%.
That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning.
At this time I’ll turn it over the operator open up the line for questions.
In order to give everyone an opportunity at the limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up if clarification is needed.
If you have additional questions you’ll welcome to get back in the queue and we’ll take as many calls as we can.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Ben Hartford from Baird.
Your line is open.
I guess Robert when we just start conceptually growth is obviously positive with full service lease growth accelerating.
How do you first reconcile what we’re seeing with regard to Class A order activity moderating obviously weaker spot market activity on a year-over-year basis with the accelerating trends that you’re seeing growth on a full service lease side it’s on a related note within rental utilization that are related follow-up on that? I guess in a very high level.
Class A orders have moderated but production still strong.
And the orders some of the moderations will maybe a lot of the OEMs are already sold out for the balance of the year.
Because of the way we procure in the way that we have slight each reserve we have a lot of slight each left we’re about a 100 days out on a new order right now.
So there is plenty of room available with us.
So I don’t believe as the drop in orders is a drop and demand for trucks.
In addition to that we’re certainly benefiting from some of the macro trends that we’ve been talking about of more people moving to outsourcing and moving to leasing and we think we’re see in the benefit to that especially as we leverage some of the new tools that we have replace around total costs of ownership.
So I think that is really what’s driving what we’re see in our company and in our industry.
As a relates to rental I think there is a lot of different things.
Well it’s continue to be very strong it’s continue strong through July.
A lot of that is coming from some of the new lease and on-demand customers that we’re saying.
We also seen some customers who are looking at leveraging rental a little better as the cost of vehicle is gone up so significantly.
If you go back to the time vehicles cost a lot less some of them would have extra vehicle setting around for when they needed them.
And I think because of the higher cost now the rationalize those and really counting on rental as a way of supplementing and really meaning that peak demand.
And then I guess into the context accelerating growth some my point FMS margins and the leverage or the expansion this quarter is being a little or needed than expected.
So in the context both pull through growth accelerating rental demand remaining healthy the introduction of this on-demand maintenance product.
How should we think about FMS margins over the course for the next several quarters and even several years in the context of what appears to be an improving structural growth outlook for the company? Okay.
I’ll let Dennis to answer.
Yes Ben.
If you look at first quarter or EBT when up 17% and obviously it was 8% in the second quarter.
Really what impacted first quarter when you compare it was what we discuss previously which was fuel.
You had the prescript of this decline in fuel pricing or the fuel costs.
And the retail price of the pump came down a little slower.
We benefited from that as we said there was a big difference between Q1 and Q2.
As we look at the second half of the year we feel really good.
Growth is really being driven by both lease growth as well as rental following it.
We also fuel coming with that.
So we feel good about top line growth and we feel like we're going to return to double digit growth in the second half.
As we look forward we don't think that's going to stop based on the trends we're seeing.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from David Ross from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning gentlemen.
Focus this morning on supply chain.
Your record margin in supply chain solutions.
Was there any gain sharing in there or rather onetime items.
Yeah there's we've got a little bit in there also some one time projects that we have for a couple of key customers in the quarter.
Ok and that's one of the reasons that the growth should decelerate in the back half.
You don't have those any more.
Correct.
And then a lot of times we hear about new business on the supply chain side is it negative for margins due to startup costs but it sounds like the new business you got this time might have startup costs but there were even more startup costs a year ago.
Is that true? Yeah.
David last year if you remember we had some of the challenges in our startup with a high tech account and we talked about that last year as really negatively impacting the second quarter so we're now getting you know startup costs have gone back to more normalized rates and we're getting the benefit on a year over year basis.
Ok so it’s not that there was no startup costs for the new businesses.
Correct.
Correct.
Just the normal run rate.
Ok and then last question on that SEShad is the better pricing that you mentioned was that due to kind of contract renewals and as a contract came up you were able to get better pricing because you're doing something different for them or sticky or its just kind of a better mix where you had the higher growth as accounted or you just had better pricing.
Yeah I would say it’s a combination of the two right some that come up for renewal and a handful that we need to improve our pricing structure as well as some more integrated accounts that we had that allow us to change our pricing there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Justin Long of Stephens.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning guys.
First question I wanted to ask you know there is potential to get a final rule on ELVs in the back half of the year.
It looks like the schedules for our September now.
Could you talk about how that could impact your business.
Is the main benefit you could see from this an impact on rental pricing or do you think this could even be a catalyst to drive increased outsourcing as well.
Yeah I think that anything that tightens the market in terms of the supply side which it would do because obviously some folks would drop off I think it’s good for the equipment side for the [indiscernible] side rental.
And as companies we [indiscernible] aptly in order to offset some of the capacity that goes away.
Include on the dedicated side.
I think as companies struggle with dealing with more complexity and more tight capacity markets I see some more opportunities on the dedicated side.
Ok great.
That's helpful and you know secondly I know there's several pits and takes when we think about the impact of a rising interest rate environment on your business but could you walk through your take on what you think the net tailwind or headwind you expect to see at ten rider from the rising interest rate environment.
Yeah I think you can head it in a couple of different ways.
One is in the shorter end of the curve if interest rates rise we will get impacted by that where we have a component of our portfolio is variable rate debt.
Estimate that at typically a hundred basis point move in the short end with probably increase our expenses by 10 or 11 million dollars.
I think on the longer end as rates rise you know we actually price that into business that we're quoting to our lease customers.
So we think we should be able to pass that through as it occurs and then we'll go out into the market and actually fund the debt at those rates.
We think an overall rising environment will help us on the lease end.
We think as the cost of borrowing moves up it actually makes the outsourcing proposition a little more attractive to customers.
Also on the longer end we do have some unfunded pension liabilities that will benefit from the rising discount rate.
So we see that probably as a net net positive.
Thank you.
Our next question comment comes from Scott Group from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
So can you give a little bit more color on strategic investments that you talked about in the release on FMS and just update that wise? And is that an ongoing number income think about or is that's a kind of more onetime we should start to go in at back half? Yes Dennis? Yeah.
So Scott we are investing significantly in sales.
We have also invested in marketing and yeah we will continue to invest in it as we continue to see the growth opportunity.
I think some of those investments will start slow.
As you look at comparables with last year we are investing pretty heavily in the second half of last year so you will not see the same growth rate but we see an opportunity.
We are going to keep investing in sales and marketing going forward.
I would also say IT.
As we look at IT and what we have done to prepare for on demand and what we needed to do in that arena.
You will continue to see those investments as we prepare for that growth and refresh our legacy systems.
But that same growth rate that you saw in the first half year that will begin to slow a little bit.
Okay.
And then just going back to rental for a second.
The comments were helpful but there's clearly a lot of concern in the market about what could happen to rental.
Do you think slowing pace of growth there or even stopping the growth on the growth on the fleet there just maybe at least something off the table now but to protect ourselves in case the rental market eventually exposes maybe some other indicators --? Yeah.
We tend to manage our rental fleet pretty conservatively.
We have a lot of indicators that we look at on a real time basis.
And obviously we always try to model out as best we can but been the company long enough to know that it can sneak up on you.
So we watch it very closely watch it daily the important thing is we have a lot of different avenues of how to downsize the fleet very quickly not only just selling vehicles but also redeploying vehicles pretty rapidly as we have started a rental lease program several years ago that we have kept in place.
So we have got a lot of different avenues but to redeploy equipment but I can tell you that demand has been very healthy and it continues to be very healthy.
We have not seen a slowdown we have been looking forward as we have seen some of the data that's out there but I think this is the only explanation I can see is that this just kind of tie into everything else.
We are seeing around more outsourcing.
We are growing the lease we are growing on demand.
Those customers need additional trucks.
We are trying to be very disciplined about growing the fleet relative to what we are seeing on the lease side and the contract side and we are still within all those parameter rental will still be within 20% 25% of revenue for after mass which has always been our target.
So our goal is to stay disciplined stay in that range.
And the minute we see something slowdown if we do see that we will respond quickly.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Brooklier from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks and good morning.
I just wanted to go back to the FMS division.
I know there's been a couple of questions on margins.
But I am trying to get my arms around revenue accelerating you did have margin expansion but it maybe was not that we would have anticipated.
I am trying to get my arms around if there anything else in the quarter that was kind of onetime in nature that maybe was a headwind in terms of FMS margins.
Yes.
I will let Dennis elaborate a little bit but the one item keep in mind versus last year's UVS used vehicles sales we have fewer units that we are selling.
And that's creating some headwind versus last year which we expected but that being offset on the earnings line by the improvements that we have seen in depreciation expense also but if you look at margin percent that will create some headwind.
But we are expecting year-over-year earnings and Dennis mentioned its really kick backup into that double-digit range in the second half for the year.
Tell us anything else from that.
No I just reiterate what I said before is also in the second half we continue to expect the topline to continue to accelerate year-over-year and that's going to fall through so as growth is really going to drive some of the bottom line and Robert mentioned in his opening comments our productivity initiatives that we are seeing on the maintenance side we’re getting a lot of traction on the cost side and that's obviously going to be help margins also going forward.
Yes I want to make sure we don't lose sight of the fact that we’re seeing a fleet growth in FMS on [upper] sell side of 6000 vehicles I mean that's a number that we really had not contemplated getting to that level when we started the year it certainly not a couple of years ago.
So I think it’s very encouraging that we’re beginning to really see the type of growth that we had thought of and dream of several years ago in terms of seeing more customers coming into outsourcing and more customers looking at full service fleet as a solution.
So in that type of an environment I think we had always talked about we would get back to the 12% to 13% earnings leverage in FMS or gain to that high end of that high 12s maybe 13 this year with that type of growth I would expect us now to see us even go pass that high end and continue to grow.
So I think we’re in a pretty good place right now in terms of having the contractual part of the business really beginning to pick up steam which is really what we’ve always try for.
Okay.
Good to hear and then maybe for our -- what you guys looking for in terms of gains on vehicle sales in the second half of this year? As we stated we started the year with our gains would be less year-over-year that hasn’t really change you saw that plan a little bit in the second quarter we think that will continue in the fourth quarter so should be down year-over-year but probably more as even in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Barnes from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks guys.
I have couple of questions here on one on rental just going back to that given the concern just around freight volumes in the spot market and this goes to a little earlier question given the robust amount of rental that you are doing right now are you seeing any customers that maybe or hesitant on the lease side because they just maybe there is a little uncertainty around there that are choosing to go to rental route that if they get an indication one way or the other is to way economic backdrop kind of plays out to lead to maybe a little bit more demand on the lease side or are you seeing anything that worries you there that a customer is making the decision that maybe suggested the economies not quite as good as hope for? Yes I don't think there is a large amount of customers that we’re seeing make any decision like that I think if you look at our lease pipeline it’s just as big as it’s been a long time we’ve had three consecutive quarters of record lease sales of -- so customers are signing up to long term leases.
I think some of that has to do with the newer technology that's come out for [indiscernible] and those more expensive you are getting more fuel efficiency which customers are see in a good pay back on that.
And then customers have also held up for a long time to make some of these decisions around capital and are to the point where they ready to make them so I don't think that we’re seeing a large number of customers say I’m going to read for much longer instead of leasing I think what we are seeing is some customers are looking at their whole fleet and saying or a historically would have a couple old unit sitting on the sidelines in case I needed one during a peak period.
Now with the new cost equipment that's lot more expensive there is less of that to go around as much units are sitting around so they are relying more on rental as opposed to surplus units within their own fleet in order to meet that peak demand I think that's one of the new launches that we’ve seen over the last quarter but Dennis anything else on that? Yes John I would just add that again when you are looking at lease fleet growth like what we are seeing now rental is a key support for that growth and so as we continue to see the lease fleet growth you are going to continue to see the demand on rental increase in addition to the customers who are just looking to take care of surge capacity with rental and doing that rather than caring these very expensive vehicles in their fleet.
So you got that and also add that we’re looking at term down so as we look at customers who are coming and asking for units and when we are running approaching 80% utilization.
Lot of times we're going to turn customers away and backing the real customer to satisfy or that's just unacceptable.
So that's something that we're monitoring all the time and we're not going to allow that to happen so we're just not seeing a slowdown in rental.
Yes you -- there's been a couple of other rental companies out there obviously put up results that have scared everybody that's why I asked the question I mean great growth [indiscernible] In other industries? Yes I think that's the problem is you get.
You guys are kind of right you're at the truck leasing which you're the only one out there that anybody can really analyze and so you get this rental business and other industries that are clearly under pressure and there's that trying to extrapolate one out to the other.
Yes I'm not sure that would be true that's true in our industry in general.
I think in our industry in general -- probably still seeing some other things strength that we see.
And then my follow up is on the sale leaseback discussion you had in your press release can you just elaborate a little bit as to what caused you having to go back and then look at these things? I mean you've done sale leasebacks as long as I've been covering the company.
What popped up now? Was there some change in the rules that you're having to go back and look at to get a new auditor? I mean what flared this issue up? John no it's -- the structure is the same.
I think the rules are fairly consistent what they have been.
I think it's kind of what you're saying to a certain extent you get a new set of eyes looking at it they haven’t changed auditors or anything like that but you look at it [indiscernible] people look at things different ways and so some good points have been raised and that's what we're going to spend the next couple of weeks addressing.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jeff Kauffman from Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
I heard your commentary on on-demand maintenance and I guess I'm just a little surprised with the ramp up that I haven’t seen the top-line grow a little bit more year-to-date so is this something -- I kind of based on the customer growth you're sighting what kind of rate do you think this could grow at in the second half? Yes well let me just say we had always talked about a launch in the middle of the year so that's -- you really haven’t seen that in the second quarter numbers yet.
We're expecting to really get more of that benefit in the second half of the year.
As I mentioned we have a carrier conference now next month where we're going to be talking about 200 large carriers that do business with us on the supply chain side about offering the service to them so we feel pretty good about that.
And I think there's still plenty opportunity even to get with the 50 accounts we've had to-date get additional penetration within those accounts so in terms of growth rates I think we talked about remember at the beginning of the year we talked about ODM the on-demand maintenance potential providing the bulk of $0.10 a share to $0.15 a share so we still think we're in that range and a lot of that really coming more in the second half now but Den you say anything else on that? No I would just as we stated the number of unique vehicles that we touched was up 28% both sequentially and year-over-year and Jeff we expect to see that accelerate in the second half.
The product is being received well.
Customers are getting a quality repair they're getting consistency for their fleet across North America.
It's an exciting product.
There's a lot of interest in the 50 customers we've signed up there's real opportunity to penetrate those fleets and that's exactly we're focused on.
So I think you're going to see the number of touches accelerate here in the second half.
I think the key thing for this product is that FMS is a multi-billion dollar segment so it'll be a while before it becomes a meaningful part of the whole revenue story however if you look at revenue growth and earnings growth it can certainly be a meaningful part of that story over the next couple -- a year to two years.
Understood.
And then the follow up if I look at the type of vehicle that you're seeing more of the demand in because not all of your lease fleet are the same types of vehicles.
Is there a difference in terms of whether customers are asking more for kind of large over the road trucks more straight trucks or kind of medium-duty product versus say trailer? Could you just give us an idea if there's a difference in the type of equipment you're seeing demand is now? Dennis? Yes for on demand it just varies Jeff.
No not for on demand I'm sorry for FMS.
Overall no we’re seeing it’s increasing across the board.
I really can’t point to straight trucks are up tractors are up trailers I mean we’re seeing an increase on lease fleet across the board.
Yes if you look at the increase on the lease fleet it’s coming from customers that are new to outsourcing and new to leasing.
And then it’s coming from customers that are currently doing business with us.
But have part of their fleet with either another provide or doing it themselves.
And we’re see more of that business coming our way also.
So what we’re see and this move towards more outsourcing even within our existing customer based.
I’d add to that Jeff it’s interesting.
We tend to find that we’re I’d say 18 months ahead of what others are seen just because the size of our fleet.
We touch about 215 000 vehicles now.
And so we were telling you about the year and half two years ago around the complexity with the new technology is really being seen by everybody else.
And you got a lot of folks we were saying this new technology is difficult and we need help which is really accelerating this trend towards outsourcing.
The next question is from Todd Fowler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Robert I wanted to ask on the guidance.
I know you had some comments in your prepared remarks.
But I just want to make sure I understand how you’re thinking about the full year.
In the second quarter it was a little bit about the high another range that seems like some of that was some special project work in the supply chain business.
But you’re expecting the lease we could be a little bit larger the rental fleet could be a little bit larger it sounds like rental demand trends are good.
What’s the thought process and just tight in the bottom and why at the top end of the guidance move up with what you’re seeing right now in the lease and rental side? Yes was a two set for top end? So I would say was a meaningful bit I think as you mentioned some of that was some special stuff and supply chain.
We are expecting the full service lease fleet to grow higher than what we had a quarter ago but a lot of that is going to be in the tailwind of the year which is an impact the earnings this much this year.
And then you’ve got some tailwind from less anti-dilutive share repurchase that we’re going to do that kind of offset that [indiscernible].
So I still thought we’re the prudent thing to do was to raise bottom end and keep the top and where it is and allow that you to continue to progress.
But nothing and kind of underlying demand trends or anything like that it’s more on the magnitude beat here in the current quarter not being significant and then yes another things on the share side it’s not that you’re seeing something different trends in the back half of the year? No I mean think about it we’re still expecting year-over-year increases of 16% to 17% full year guidance.
So we’re expecting double-digit earnings growth continue double-digit earnings growth in the second half of the year.
And really seen each of the business segments continue to grow nicely we have a little of a slowdown in supply chain.
But dedicated really kick and backend after we get pass some of the self-insurance challenges as we’ve had in the first half of the year.
And then FMS really continuing to see earnings growth and really picking up the earnings growth in the second half.
And just one follow-up I think in the past you’ve talked about the percent of rental revenue that comes from your lease business.
Could you remind us what that is and can you also maybe help us understand how much of the rental revenue comes from national accounts or you’ve got some visibility into the fourth quarter maybe related to omni-channel or ecommerce? And then kind of how much of the rental revenue you think is more consistent I guess in nature versus transactional? Todd its Dennis.
Our lease support from rental is about 40% of our rental demand as fluctuate quarter-to-quarter but in the neighborhood of 40% and then from our local pure rental or customers just renting is about 60% of the demands in that range.
Thanks a lot for the time this morning guys.
Our next question is from Kevin Sterling from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
The increase you’re talking about for the lease fleet 5 000 6 000 vehicles.
Are you keeping your CapEx guidance for the full year 2.6 billion or should that increase on touch base on which are CapEx guidance for the full year still 2.6 billion? Yes Kevin still not same raise we gave before.
And Robert you touched on the lease vehicle growth positive sales and units and I think you said maybe a third coming from new customers extending with existing customers.
But I mean it really sounds like to me you are really kind of knocking down some of the doors or walls of customers that have never leased before and you are really getting some nice penetration.
So maybe could you put in context for us 6 000 lease vehicle today in the history of your company my guess is we have not seen that since probably prior to the great recession.
And I also love to hear your perspective I am guessing you probably feel as you have knocked down some of these doors of customers have not leased in the past sales 6 000 is not feeling.
So maybe could put in perspective the 6 000 where it has been impacted your company and maybe where it could go? Yes.
Putting the 6 000 in perspective I have been with the company 22 years and in the 22 years -- 6 000 unit full service lease growth.
So this is new uncharted territory for us it is clearly I think coming from been driven by this macro trend of things getting much more complex in the industry along with many of the sales and marketing changes that we have made over the years and this push really to get after that 90% of the market that does not outsource and does not lease.
And if you think about we play in a very small percentage of the market in full service lease and rental now we are really trying to extend to that 90.
So 6 000 as exciting as it is for us I think we are still in the early innings.
And I think there is still a lot of room to continue to find ways to grow.
I think we have talked about overtime really leveraging all the infrastructure that we have in maintenance at our 800 shops.
And as we get passed that you are going to see us then continue to add locations if we need to as we continue to grow.
So it is a very exciting time I think for us here.
Just even only looking at full service lease but then you look at what we are doing around on demand you look at the growth that we are driving is dedicated and you look at the new things that we are doing around supply chain.
This trend towards outsourcing in on the fleet side and then on the supply chain side I think is really beginning to catch its strive and we are very well positioned to play into it and we have got and I think we have got the right organization of right sales and marketing group to get out.
So Dennis anything else.
Yes.
Robert I would just add to that that as exciting as the topline is which you mentioned earlier about productivity initiatives and our focus on this new technology and being able to really accelerate that productivity is currently important which is it's always a topline it's also Kevin as you look at it is with that complexity of the new technology it's being able to expand the margins.
And that's what the productivity initiatives are so important with really focused on that also is being as productive as we can with this new technology.
Clearly that's a big part of the story yes.
Alright.
Kevin one thing I wanted to get back to you obviously on so I was clear on that around the upper end of the range on vehicle count.
So we factor in current views around vehicle for CapEx as well as showing up -- it brings down -- CapEx and it would be required to the 6 000 units.
So it's not a marginal change after that that's why we have to change our guidance around that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tom Kim from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
This is Tom Daniels on for Tom Kim.
I just have a one question regarding used vehicle sales pricing up again 11% and 10% year-over-year respectively.
How much of the mix shift towards retail from wholesale has kind of played out here.
And what should we thinking about in terms of risk to pricing going forward? Yeah.
I think I will let Dennis give you some more detail.
But I think what you are seeing is we have now gratitude to more of our traditional mix of retail versus wholesale I think on a global base we are about 70% retail in the U.S.
to about 75%.
So we are kind of at the right mix right now.
And really what we are seeing is continued price increases as demand for used trucks continues to be relative strong.
And also beginning to see some inflationary increases because we are now beginning to sale the O7 [ph] technology that actually costs more.
So some of that is just we would expect it because the vehicles original cost of the vehicle is higher.
So I would expect that to continue as long as demand continues to be reasonable and we are getting into a period where we have tight supply because we’re selling vehicles in 2007 and 2008 which not a lot of vehicles are built or we have in our fleet so I would expect tight supply and as always we have moderate demand for we’re going to be in a pretty good shape anything else on that? No we continue to work our export channels also taking vehicles offshore and Tom the only thing I would say is that the post of seven technology in the quarter we had about 40% of our sales were post 07 and approaching little over 50% of our inventories post 07 and we’re seeing the proceeds that we expected from that technology so we feel good about things in general going forward.
Post 07 technology how much more expensive is that than the prior? That was a 10% to 15% increase in price.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Casey Deak from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just wanted to look at asset management for a minute there is been a lot of focus on early terminations and that number still appears to be good but looking at redeployments and extensions going down considerably from the year ago period is that just your customers appetite for the new technologies is it on the redeployment side especially is it for those vehicles mainly going into rental and not included in that if you could… Yes I think it’s the fact that you have customers willing to sign up for the new stuff its very attractive and also we have fewer units terming out this year we have fewer units are getting at the end of the lease terms so fewer units are available I guess to redeployed also so I think those are the really the two big drivers.
Okay.
And one of the signs with staying with the fleet dedicated on the fleet counter if I ended the quarter and the average was about the same so -- were sales muted in the quarter and dedicated as you are looking at debt you get a better sense in the outlook for the rest of the year and had those numbers come to equal out? John? Yes with regard to the dedicated numbers you saw the fleet was up 400 units about 6% so that's consistent with the revenue growth is on the quarter you’ve heard in Robert’s prepared remarks we are looking to accelerate that as we get further into the year we did have a nice quarter of sales so we’re encouraged by the second quarter sales and that's going to help accelerate the sales growth in the second half.
I think just important to note that the -- it really the self insurance challenges in the quarter were really the big headwind and dedicated but once we get pass those we should return to pretty meaningful earnings growth there.
Thank you and our final question for today comes from Scott Group from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Just couple of things on demand can you give some color on the large customer that you lost and then should we expect any startup cost with the new customer or startups in general as you ramp up this business? Yes first the large customer was a customer from the early days and we don't expect to see that going forward Scott so like I said before we expect to see continued acceleration in the product.
Okay.
And Robert I thought your commentary on margins was important in that you can get maybe to a new upper end of the range that comment about getting above 13% do you think that's realistic for next year? Well when I got to give guidance for next year yet so I’m really talking about over the next several years I just look it’s simple math right if we could grow the topline across the businesses as we’ve been doing leverage some of the infrastructure particularly in FMS and we’re with really the contractual part of our business growing of the [indiscernible] there is no reason why we should be able to real expand those margins to get them above historical levels.
Got it.
Scott I want to come back to your question because you asked about an on demand customer we didn’t lose an on demand customers the contract maintenance customer that we mentioned early on and so we haven't really lost on demand and on demand will fluctuate based on the need I mean this is on demand it's a contract product but its consumed on an on demand basis and we expect to continue to penetrate these 50 customers and we expect to sign up more going forward because of the attractiveness of the product.
Yes just to be clear so there's really meaningful startup cost associated with getting a customer up and running.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez for closing remarks.
Okay well we're at the top of the hour so I want to thank everyone for their continued interest in Ryder.
Have a safe day.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Incorporated's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen-only mode until after the presentation.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Mr.
Bob Brunn Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Mr.
Brunn you may begin.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you'll hear some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's earnings release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; John Diez President of Dedicated Transportation Solutions and Steve Sensing President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today and available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our third quarter 2015 results review the asset management area and discuss the current outlook for our business.
Then we'll open the call for questions.
With that let's turn to an overview of our third quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.74 for the third quarter 2015 up from $1.63 in the prior year.
This is an improvement of $0.11 or 7%.
Comparable earnings per share excludes non-operating pension costs of $0.05 in the third quarter of this year and $0.03 last year.
Our results were below our initial forecast range of a $1.82 to a $1.87 but were in line with the top end of our revised forecast range announced early last week.
Our forecast for the third quarter was revised recently to reflect a $0.06 impact from a temporary maintenance execution issue and a $0.05 impact from less robust supply demand conditions in used vehicle sales.
We experienced a higher than planned number of out-of-service vehicles during the quarter.
This occurred because maintenance technicians were supporting new levels of fleet growth across all product lines while at the same time we were continuing to drive further productivity within the maintenance organization.
We've made significant progress on this issue and expected to be fully resolved this month with no ongoing impact into 2016.
In used vehicle sales we saw lower volumes and reduced pricing particularly in September.
I'll discuss used vehicle sales trends in more detail later in the call.
Operating revenue which excludes fuel and subcontracted transportation revenue grew by 6% to a record $1.4 billion for the third quarter and was higher in all business segments.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange operating revenue grew by 8% for the quarter.
Total revenue declined primarily due to lower fuel costs passed through to customers.
Page five includes some additional financial information for the third quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased to 53.3 million shares up from 53 million last year.
In January we temporarily paused repurchase activity because our balance sheet leverage was nearing the high-end of our target range of 225% to 275%.
Repurchase activity remains paused because our leverage is now just above the high-end of our target.
We'll continue to evaluate the appropriate timing to resume anti-dilutive share repurchases going forward.
Excluding pension costs and other items the comparable tax rate was 35.3% generally in line with the prior year.
Page six highlights key financial statistics on a year-to-date basis.
Operating revenue was up 6% to $4.1 billion.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $4.47 up 12% from last year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital widened to 140 basis points up 50 basis points from the prior year driven primarily by higher leverage.
On a full-year basis we expect the spread to be 150 basis points.
I'll turn now to page seven and discuss some key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 6% driven mainly by the growth in full service lease and commercial rental.
Excluding the impact from foreign exchange FMS operating revenue was up 8%.
Full service lease revenue increased by 6% or 8% excluding FX due to fleet growth and higher rates on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher costs of new vehicles.
The lease fleet grew organically by 7 400 vehicles year-over-year.
Sequentially from the second quarter the lease fleet increased by 1 900 vehicles.
In addition we had near-record new lease contract signings in the quarter.
These continued strong sales levels later in the calendar year provide us with great fleet growth momentum into 2016 as these units get built and delivered to customers typically four months to five months later.
Based on our strong contract signing activity and sales pipeline we expect record lease fleet growth of 6 000 to 6 500 vehicles for the full year 2015 above our prior forecast of 5 000 to 6 000 vehicles.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units declined 1% versus the prior year but continue to run at normal historical levels.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 4%.
Our contract maintenance fleet grew by approximately 200 vehicles from the prior year but was down 500 vehicles sequentially.
Looking ahead we expect sequential growth in this product line as we signed a significant new customer in July that will start up in the fourth quarter.
Contract-related maintenance revenue was up 5% from the prior year.
Included in contract-related maintenance are 8 200 vehicles serviced during the quarter under on-demand maintenance agreements an increase of 32% from the prior year.
During August we also – we more broadly launched this new product at our annual carrier conference and have geared up expanded sales efforts to respond to strong customer interest.
We have significant opportunity to increase volumes within customers that have already signed up for the service and are engaged in discussions with multiple new prospects.
Commercial rental revenue was up 7% for the quarter or 9% excluding FX.
The increase was driven by higher demand and pricing in North America.
Rental revenue was particularly strong in the U.S.
which was up 12% for the quarter.
Higher rental demand is being supported by growth in our lease and national rental customer base.
The average rental fleet grew by 7% from the prior year.
Rental utilization on power units was 76.4% down 160 basis points from the prior year but still at a strong level.
This decline was due to the higher number of out-of-service rental vehicles discussed earlier as these unavailable units are included in the denominator of the utilization calculation.
Global pricing on power units was up 2% below the forecast of 3% for the quarter.
Our market rates were in line with expectations; however the overall realized price increase reflects a different fleet mix and a higher proportion of rental vehicles being used by lease customers at lower rates.
Used vehicle results were negatively impacted by lower volumes partially offset by higher year-over-year pricing.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall FMS earnings increased due to higher full service lease results and strong rental performance partially offset by lower used vehicle sales results.
Better lease results reflect fleet growth and vehicle residual value benefits.
Commercial rental performance benefited from higher demand in pricing on a larger fleet.
These benefits were partially offset by used vehicle sales results.
Earnings before taxes in FMS increased 5%.
Earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 12.8% down 20 basis points from the prior year.
Lower gains on used vehicles sales negatively impacted the growth in pre-tax earnings percent in FMS by 60 basis points.
I'll turn now to Dedicated Transportation Solutions on page eight.
Operating revenue grew 9% due to new business higher volumes and increased pricing.
Total revenue was unchanged reflecting lower fuel costs passed through to customers.
DTS earnings increased 12% due to new business and increased pricing partially offset by higher self-insurance cost.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 7.2% up 20 basis points from the prior year.
Higher self-insurance costs negatively impacted EBT margins by approximately 80 basis points.
We expect improved margin comparisons in the fourth quarter driven by new business and as we move past the high self-insurance costs we experienced during the year.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on page nine.
Operating revenue grew by 5% due to new business higher pricing and increased volumes.
SCS operating revenue grew 9% excluding the impact of FX.
Total revenue was slightly down reflecting lower third-party purchase transportation costs and lower fuel costs passed through to customers.
SCS earnings before taxes were up 9% due primarily to higher pricing and higher volumes.
Segment earnings before taxes as a percent of operating revenue were 8.3% for the quarter up 30 basis points from the prior year.
Page 10 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed and is included here for your reference.
Page 11 reflects our year-to-date results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but I'll just highlight bottom-line results.
Comparable year-to-date earnings from continuing operations were $239 million up 12% from last year.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items including capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 12 year-to-date gross capital expenditures were $2.1 billion up nearly $370 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects planned investments in our lease and rental fleets in light of new lease contracting activity and a strong rental demand environment.
We realized proceeds primarily from the sale of revenue earning equipment of $321 million; it's down $75 million from the prior year.
The decrease primarily reflects planned lower volumes of vehicles sold.
Net capital expenditures increased by about $440 million to nearly $1.8 billion.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of about $1.1 billion year-to-date up by $90 million.
The increase was driven primarily by higher cash-based earnings.
We generated $1.4 billion of total cash year-to-date up $19 million from the prior year.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by about $350 million to just under $2.1 billion year-to-date.
The company's free cash flow was negative $644 million year-to-date versus the prior year of negative $317 million reflecting capital expenditures to grow our lease and rental fleets.
Page 14 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total debt of approximately $5.5 billion increased by $720 million from year-end 2014.
As a reminder last quarter we revised the accounting treatment for prior sale leaseback transactions to reflect them as balance sheet debt rather than off-balance sheet financing.
As such we are eliminating the total obligations measure we previously used as balance sheet debt is now substantially the same as total obligations.
Our primary leverage metric and target of 225% to 275% now refers to debt-to-equity.
Debt-to-equity at the end of the quarter increased to 279% it's up from 260% at the end of 2014.
Leverage increased primarily due to vehicle investments to fund growth as well as foreign exchange.
We expect leverage to be at the higher end of our target range at year-end.
Equity at the end of the quarter was $1.95 billion that's up $133 million from year-end 2014 primarily due to earnings partially offset by foreign exchange and dividends.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 16 summarizes key results for our asset management area.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 6 100 vehicles up from 5 800 vehicles in the prior year and 200 vehicles above the second quarter.
Used vehicle inventory was at the low end of our target range of 6 000 vehicles to 8 000 vehicles.
The number of used vehicles sold during the quarter were 4 400 down 12% from the prior year and down 6% sequentially.
Year-to-date we've sold 13 400 vehicles.
Used vehicle pricing growth moderated on a year-over-year basis particularly in September when we lowered pricing as a result of somewhat slower sales volumes.
Compared to the third quarter of 2014 proceeds from vehicles sold were up 5% for tractors and up 8% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was down 3% and truck pricing was down 4% versus the second quarter of 2015.
With the heavy fleet replacement cycle that occurred in the overall market this year there are significant number of 2011 and 2012 model year Class 8 tractors currently available.
Prices on these units are under pressure due to the performance challenges with the newer engine technology.
While we're not selling many of these model years ourselves these price pressures are trickling down somewhat to the seven-year to eight-year old tractors we typically sell.
The number of lease vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by around 620 units or 13% year-to-date that is well below recessionary levels.
This reflects a lower number of lease contract expirations this year.
Early terminations of lease vehicles decreased by a 100 units year-to-date and remain well below recessionary levels.
I'll turn now to page 18 to cover our outlook and forecast.
During the third quarter we delivered solid year-over-year revenue and earnings improvement across all business segments.
We're particularly encouraged by continued momentum in lease sales and fleet growth strong rental demand and solid performance in our Dedicated and Supply Chain businesses.
In full service lease we've realized strong sales activity throughout the year and have a robust new business pipeline.
As mentioned earlier for the full year we expect to achieve record lease fleet growth of 6 000 vehicles to 6 500 vehicles above our prior forecast range of 5 000 vehicles to 6 000 vehicles.
We've continued to see around a one-third of our new truck leases coming from customers new to outsourcing.
As a reminder capital on lease trucks is only committed after the customer signs the contract with us and these contracts are generally for the full expected operating life of the vehicle.
As we look into next year these strong lease sales particularly those in the back half of 2015 provide nice year-over-year revenue and earnings momentum as we will realize a full year of revenue and earnings contribution in 2016 as opposed to partial year of contribution in 2015.
In rental we're pleased with the strong demand we've seen this year which is being supported by growth in our lease and national rental customer base.
Demand has been stronger in all vehicle classes but relatively more in trucks and less so in tractors.
We're seeing solid rental reservation request from our seasonal shipping customers for November and December.
We've made significant progress on our out-of-service issue and expect to fully return these vehicles to service this month with no ongoing impact into 2016.
We now expect our full year average rental fleet to grow 7% versus our prior forecast of 6%.
Our outlook for rental pricing is a 3% increase for the full year.
In the fourth quarter the average rental fleet is expected to grow by 8% with pricing up 2%.
We expect year-over-year utilization comparisons in the fourth quarter to be similar to those that we saw in the third quarter reflecting vehicles out of service in October and strong prior year-end results.
We're planning for seasonal rental de-fleeting at year-end particularly for tractors to prepare for the first quarter.
We'll evaluate the demand conditions as we head into 2016 for next year's fleet planning.
We're pleased with the continued strong market interest in our new on-demand service and introduced the product to a significant number of prospects at a large carrier conference that we hosted in August.
With the IT work to support the product behind us we've expanded the sales team who can sell on-demand.
We also have significant opportunities to realize higher volumes within the fleets we've already signed.
In used vehicle sales we've adjusted our pricing due to a less robust supply demand conditions we saw late in the third quarter.
We're in a good position with lean inventories today and with a normal percent of lease expirations over the next couple of years.
While used vehicle prices across the board are being pressured by the supply of newer but less desirable units from a technology standpoint prices on our older well maintained units are holding up relatively better.
For the fourth quarter we're assuming a further modest decline in pricing as compared to what we realized in September.
Overall for the fourth quarter we expect year-over-year gains on used vehicle sales to be down by the same magnitude as the third quarter with improved volumes offsetting lower pricing.
As we look ahead into 2016 we're likely to see lower gains on sale due to pricing.
However we should see a benefit in depreciation due to higher residual values using our five-year rolling average methodology.
We are currently conducting our annual residual value analysis and will provide an earnings benefit on this on our fourth quarter earnings call.
In Supply Chain we're expecting modest fourth quarter revenue growth due to lower volumes while strong earnings performance trends are expected to continue.
In the Dedicated segment we expect strong earnings growth in the fourth quarter driven by new sales and lower self-insurance expense.
Looking ahead to next year Dedicated revenue growth is expected to remain in the high single-digit level and benefit from several large deals we anticipate closing by year-end.
Our fourth quarter comparable EPS forecast is a $1.72 to a $1.82 versus the prior year of a $1.59 or an increase of 8% to 14%.
While we expect rental and used vehicle results to be as I've described this morning the low-end of our forecast range contemplates the potential for a modestly weaker environment in these areas.
Our full year EPS forecast is $6.17 to $6.29 an 11% to 13% increase from our prior year of $5.58.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
At this time I'll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
In order to give everyone an opportunity please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up if clarification is needed.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to get back in the queue and we'll take as many calls as we can.
Thank you speaker.
The first question for today is from Mr.
David Ross from Stifel Nicolaus.
Sir your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Just I guess to talk about Fleet Management Solutions a bit.
The average age of your lease fleet is that still declining or is that kind of bottomed out in the 40-plus month range? Yeah actually it's declined one month this quarter.
So we are down about 38 months I think now.
I think the key point though as we've been saying for the last few quarters is that the benefit related to maintenance cost from the decline is really subsided.
We're kind of at a point where you're not getting that benefit that we had seen; we were back in the 54 months down to 38 months.
So it has declined but that's basically because of the growth.
We are about 38 months.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then when you talk about miles per vehicle per day driven the lease fleet down about 1% year-over-year is that kind of reflective of what you're seeing in the overall economy or with your customers in terms of general growth out there is non-existent or flat sluggish slightly down? And then you guys are just growing through that? Is there something else going on with the decline in the utilization of the lease fleet? Hey David.
It's Dennis.
No I would say just it's in the normal range.
I wouldn't correlate it to anything in the economy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then when you look at the Dedicated side you mentioned that the self-insurance issues should go away.
I guess those were some bad accidents that hit your deductible level.
Where do you expect them to get – I mean they would have been 8% in the quarter absent those SIR (25:19) issues.
So next year are we looking at kind of an 8%-plus dedicated margin is that reasonable rate off of growth? Hey David.
It's John.
With regards to our long-term targets I think they still remain the same.
We're looking at that 8% to 9% range long-term.
But to your point I think in the near-term you will see some improvement once we get past these insurance headwinds we've had the last two quarters.
And David I'd also – but it's not just accidents in the period it's also development of past claims year-over-year since we're self-insured.
So that's actually been probably the lion's share's of it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay excellent.
Thank you.
Thanks David.
Thank you speaker.
The next question comes from Mr.
John Mims with FBR Capital Markets.
Sir your line is now open.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So Robert let me ask you first on the maintenance side.
And I understand as the lease fleet grows the demand for the maintenance tax increases.
But when you look at the longer term growth story so much of it is about on-demand maintenance and on-site maintenance and just you're being able to serve that market.
So can you go into a little more depth here in terms of the overlap between those two products the regular way lease and rental maintenance versus what you can offer customers on a standalone basis? And then in terms of what you've done to fix that now kind of where are we in that process? Are you training a bunch of new guys that have to ramp up or are you buying more experienced techs? Just anything to help us kind of understand at of what's going on in the maintenance side would be really helpful.
Okay.
Well first as it relates to some of the new products on demand and some of the new things that we're coming up with versus our traditional full service lease and contract maintenance the most important thing I think is that it's leveraging that same infrastructure that we have 800 shops 5 500 technicians.
The changes and all the work that we did the last couple of years in prepping not only the billing system but also the techs and getting them used to the idea of having to give an estimate for on-demand and then having to document the work more thoroughly I believe is behind us.
So the way that those products work together they really leverage the same expertise and capability that we have in full service lease and rental.
I think to address kind of what happened in the quarter as it related to some of our maintenance execution challenges is really it comes down to we added over 10 000 vehicles year-over-year which is the most growth we've seen probably in the last couple of decades at one time.
At the same time we've been adding technicians but more importantly at the same time Dennis and his team have really been trying to drive continued productivity.
We have 5 500 technicians.
We spend over $900 million a year maintaining trucks.
So any little bit of productivity that we can get in that operation is a lot of money.
And Dennis and his team have really paid dividends I mean it's really paid off over the last couple of years the work they've done to drive productivity.
The only thing that happened in the third quarter was we got a little bit ahead of ourselves.
We were trying to drive some additional productivity while the trucks were coming in and probably overshot it a little bit.
You're really talking about a very small percentage of an overshoot it's 0.5% right it's about 1 000 units really that started to sit.
By the time -- we thought we are going to be able to get it done in August and September; it didn't get done.
We've now worked on fixing it.
It's very simple to fix.
Obviously you add techs but even simpler than that just allowing the techs that we have to work more hours having them come in on the weekends or work overtime get those trucks back on the road.
The good news is that most of that work is already done.
So by the end of October I'm confident we're going have it all finished.
Probably about 80% of the way there as we sit here today.
So I'm confident we can do that.
We're obviously learning from this one.
It won't happen again and we are ramping up getting more of the technicians on board so that we can handle the growth that we're seeing.
No that's helpful.
How long does it take a new tech on average to ramp up? John it's Dennis.
I would say to become fully productive you're looking three months to six months in that range depending on the technician put him through training and get them familiar with the Ryder processes and so forth so in that range three months.
Awesome.
Great.
Thanks Dennis.
And then as a quick follow-up when I look at the Supply Chain revenue big deceleration in the high-tech.
That's been running in the high teens.
This quarter the revenue growth was down in the low single digits.
And I know you said some moderating revenue in fourth quarter but is there anything particular that's going on in high-tech that's something we should be modeling different going into 2016 or is that still a kind of teens type of growing segment and there's something going on in the short-term? Thanks.
Yeah.
No.
I think as you look back into last year we did some network optimization rationalization for customers so you're seeing some of that benefit this year to that customer base but nothing that we're seeing in the technology sector.
Great.
So you're looking at just kind of mid single-digit revenue growth for the whole suite of services in Supply Chain? Yes.
Great.
All right thanks a lot.
Thank you speaker.
Our next question comes from Mr.
John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is now open.
Hey thank you.
Thanks for taking the question.
A couple of things here.
Number one going back on what John just asked in terms of getting the technician side of it corrected could you just provide us a little color as to how you got behind and why? I mean you kind of have been ramping up the growth forecast all year.
I mean I think if I go back and look every call it's been a little bit more growth on the lease fleet.
Knowing that that was coming through and knowing that you've done this for as many years as you've done it what part of the process broke down that allowed you to get this far behind and why was it so easy to correct? Well I think the issue was we knew we were somewhat behind for a few months.
However we felt pretty comfortable that we were going to be able to get the productivity out of the techs in August and September and get the vehicles fixed.
It didn't happen.
I think what we're learning is -- remember we're trying to manage productivity for 5 500 techs who are maintaining new technology vehicles.
And the team has over the last several years really driven more and more productivity which has helped us offset some of these higher maintenance costs that you see in the technology.
We got to a ceiling if you will.
We got to a point we realized wait a minute that's it it's not going any further.
And to give you an idea of what we're talking about you're talking about 0.5%.
You're talking about 1 000 vehicles on over 200 000 vehicles that we maintain.
And we really thought that we could squeeze a little bit more out of the team and get it done.
It didn't work out.
So we know now this is the limit of what we're going to based on the mix of vehicles that we have and we're making that correction.
And the reason why it was easy to maintain is once you realize that that doesn't work you just open up...
Overtime.
...overtime and allow them to do maintenance in other ways.
So I don't want Dennis and the team to take their foot off the pedal when it comes to continue to drive productivity.
But clearly we got to a point here with all the initiatives that we got going on that we got a little bit ahead of ourselves.
Okay and I guess we've gotten a lot of questions around the ability to grow the on-demand product maybe as quickly as you want.
Is there any limitation there? I mean look if your existing techs are fully productive you're having to open overtime.
Is the opportunity as profitable if they are having to do it via overtime or do you see having to maybe – where we thought before this on-demand rollout was leveraging the existing technician base is there going to be – you have to be a step up in the technician base in order to handle whatever you do on the on-demand side? Well remember the strategy around on-demand isn't so much to leverage the technician base; it's to leverage the infrastructure the management the locations all of the infrastructure that supports them.
The rule of thumb is for every 35 or so vehicles you add in full-service lease or rental you're going to add a technician.
That's just the productivity and the capacity.
So I expect that to continue we've been adding techs a lot of techs over the last few years.
As we continue to grow we expect to continue to add techs.
I think that's a good thing because at the end of day that's really our product.
If those guys are great at what they do and leveraging their expertise in an environment that has gotten much tougher for folks that are trying to do this on their own is very important.
And I think it's important also to say that the issues we're having are not related to an inability to find techs.
We can find them.
This was just a real drive to get more productivity as we've been doing year-after-year-after-year and got to a point now we realized we've got to back off a little bit.
So Dennis I don't know if you want to add to that? Yeah.
John I would just add to that obviously it is more profitable to serve these customers without having to use the overtime.
So what we're looking at is what's the technician model that we need for all the growth that we're staring in the face of and that's changing as we put out in the press release where we're looking at that and looking at how many techs we need because we want to serve those customers without having to use an exorbitant amount of overtime.
So that's exactly what we're looking at right now.
Okay.
All right that makes sense.
And then lastly just on the – the more – I guess the pieces of business that are viewed as more economically sensitive between the rental piece and the used equipment could you talk a little bit about – have you been able to parse out between how much of your rental growth has been with existing customers or lease customers that are coming on line that you're having to backfill until the lease equipment comes in and then can you talk a little – have you been able to parse that out? And then what percentage of it is coming from just a pure lease customer or I'm sorry rental customer and what are you seeing in those trends? And then maybe the same on used equipment.
I mean is it more of a macro issue or is this a Ryder-specific equipment mix less equipment available just how do you parse it out between the macro implications and what's Ryder-specific? Yeah I'll let Dennis elaborate in a second.
But I think to answer broadly the growth that we're seeing in rental a lot of it is coming from national rental customers and also additional lease customers as we add more customers to our portfolio and I would say not only lease but obviously on-demand on these other products that we're bringing out.
So we're seeing that.
We're certainly seeing more of the demand growth I mentioned in my statements from right now from straight trucks versus tractors.
But in the third quarter really they both grew.
But I think that's really what's driving that demand and I don't think that is a Ryder-specific phenomenon I think if we look at other companies that are renting the same types of vehicles as we are you're going to hear some of the same things.
On the used truck side it is clearly not just a Ryder issue I think what you have there is an oversupply of a certain type of vehicle primarily it's the 2011's and 2012 tractors that have had some more challenges around technology a little less desirable.
So other companies that are selling those we don't have a lot of those that we're selling at this point we're selling mostly 2009 and 2010.
But as they've lowered the prices and try to move those vehicles they have had some trickle-down effect on our vehicles and we've made those adjustments to our pricing in the third quarter that we expect now to see us get some additional volumes in the fourth quarter.
So Dennis I don't know if you want to add...
Yeah.
John let me just provide a little quantification for what Robert described earlier.
So when you look at our rental revenue in the third quarter 40% of it was for lease support 40% of it was for national customers and 20% was for local customers.
So you've got 60% that's for what we call pure rental where it's not associated with a lease support customer and when you look at what's growing frankly national and local are growing.
So you've got lease support that's growing double-digit you've got national that's growing double-digit and you've got local that was growing high-single digits now that's for the U.S.
I just gave you U.S.
growth.
Globally the growth was a little less what globally ex-FX we were at 9% in the U.S.
we are up 12%.
So to answer your question national is growing nicely local is growing as is lease support as the lease fleet grows.
Okay all right.
That's great color.
Thanks so much for your time today.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ben Hartford from Baird.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Robert maybe thinking about next year FMS margins I think the last quarter you had talked about confidence in exceeding prior peak margins in FMS given the growth that you had seen.
With used truck pricing and values taking a step down in the third quarter and probably this baseline being the appropriate one that we should think about for the foreseeable futures until we lap those comps obviously full service lease fleet growth is growing above expectations you've got the offsets you talked about with regard to residuals next year so a lot to be determined but how should we think about your confidence or what is your confidence as it relates to exceeding prior peak margins in FMS given the growth given some of the takes that we have this quarter? Yeah.
I mean if you think about margin percent the EBT percent we're going to some headwinds from gains.
Because obviously gains impacted bottom line down without change in the top line.
But let me – without giving you a forecast for or guidance for 2016.
Let me just maybe go through a few of the puts and takes as I see them today for 2016 just to kind of put things in perspective.
First I want to make sure we're clear that we have not seen any change in all those the secular trends that we've talked about for the last several years about outsourcing really being in favor the fact that we are – we are in the outsourcing business for fleet and supply chain which are two things that are becoming more complex due to regulation and the search for cleaner air and safer roads.
I don't see that changing and it is getting a lot of tough – a lot tougher for those do-it-yourself versus that 90% of the market.
Our lease fleet growth was 7 400 units in the quarter.
That's the most in at least the last couple decades.
We expect as we get into 2016 I would tell you I would expect that even with the declining OEM production I would expect us to continue to grow our lease fleet.
Why is that? Well because of the secular trend that we just talked about.
I think we're in a time where the relationship between lease sales and OEM production is changing and it's going to decouple.
And if you think about that in terms for next year a tailwind if we're able to grow 5 000 units 6 000 units if you just do the simple math on that in terms of margin at a 30% you're looking at about $30 million of incremental profit just on the growth side.
We continue to see good success in up-selling customers to Dedicated.
Remember that adds four times to five times of revenue two times to three times the profit.
So I expect to see that top-line growth that you saw this quarter to continue to be there and maybe even increase.
Our pipeline is very strong both in lease and in dedicated and in on-demand.
If you look at the sales that we're seeing in lease today those units are probably not going to hit us until the beginning of next year.
So you're going to have a full year of revenue for those and all the years that we've – all the units that we've been – serviced in the last two quarters you're going to – or in the last quarter you're going to have a half the year.
So we already have a lot of the stuff I would say somewhat in the bag on the lease side.
And again we still have a very strong pipeline a lot of customers that are coming to us looking for a solution to some of their fleet headaches.
On the rental demand side I'd say we still are seeing good year-over-year growth especially around the trucks.
We're seasonally de-fleeting in the fourth quarter to prepare ourselves for what is always a lower seasonally lower first quarter.
If the demand does soften we are well positioned to downsize the fleet quickly as we did in 2012.
You've got low used truck inventories you've got our centralized asset management process that we've added this rental to lease program which by the way we have already stepped up in the – in case things do soften and we also can limit our rental CapEx for next year.
I think it's clear that we're probably going to spend less money on rental next year than we did this year and you should see us – we should be able to make that decision here over the next couple months.
So again we have levers that we can pull to adjust if that does happen.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's good.
So you addressed a lot in there and the second part of the question was just about your confidence to growth next year and going forward in a declining market.
And I guess if we go back to the prior cycle 2007 (44:01) build was down but you guys still grew the fleet that was probably a function of some of the wins later in the cycle layering on but the point is you feel confident that this environment can be a little bit different do you have traction with new customers that can support a decoupling of the – that growth I just want to clarify that remark? Absolutely absolutely.
We do – I do feel that – I do feel that just based on what I'm seeing in the conversations we're having with customers I don't see that slowing down because I think that this secular trend that's really helping us is going to continue.
I think the – on the flip side I would tell you that clearly the used truck side we're seeing some sequential softening.
I believe that that's more – like I mentioned earlier rise in this supply.
We're forecasting now for the fourth quarter about a 7% drop in proceeds and pricing relative to our Q2 peak if you will.
That's probably consistent with what you're hearing from some of the industry research firms so just to put that in context we sell about $400 million.
If you look at our cash flow statement we do about $400 million in proceeds.
So 7% puts you right around $28 million $30 million.
As I look at that and I say all right I'm going to absorb some of that this year in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.
So I'm probably looking at $20 million next year of some headwind just if the pricing is there because they are more maybe $30 million.
As I look at that even though we have not finalized I've got to caveat this we haven't finalized our depreciation policy analysis.
Looking at a five-year rolling average I think it's reasonable to assume that our depreciation policy benefit would mostly offset something of that magnitude right? So – you would the benefit in depreciation expense should mostly offset a reduction of that range 7% I'd say even 5% to 10% mostly or partially offset.
So the question then is what is – the headwind that we have in UVS which again even if it got a little bit worse the rental uncertainty and then the positives around the rest of our business the net of all that I still think is going to be good revenue and earnings growth in 2016.
We're not ready to say how much but I think especially given our ability to also be able to manage overheads that's really the way I would see the business going into 2016 again without giving you all the numbers.
We'll be ready to do that in February.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you speaker.
Our next question comes from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys good morning thanks.
So I think...
Good morning Scott.
...those last couple of questions were the crux of what we need to know.
So I just want to make sure I'm understanding everything.
You are saying that you think based on what you are seeing in used truck pricing right now gains on sales down on the order of magnitude of $30 million seems fair for next year and you think you can offset most of that with residual value of asset.
Right.
Scott I think what we're saying is that if you think about a price decline in that 5% to 10% range gains are going to drop let's say roughly $30 million.
Some of that we've absorbed already in the second half of this year the remainder will be absorbed next year and what we're saying is that in that environment we would expect our residual value uptick to probably offset the decline that's going to occur in 2016.
Some of the $30 million has been realized obviously in the takedown in UVS in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
The remainder would come through in 2016.
Yeah.
I think if you look at the numbers that would be this year we had a residual or depreciation policy benefit of about $40 million.
It's not going to be $40 million next year.
The year before it was $25 million.
And the year before it was $25 million.
So you start to think about a $20 million $25 million benefit I think that's reasonable.
We haven't finalized it yet though so I can't commit to anything.
But I think that's really kind of what the way we're seeing this sort of likely to play out.
And Robert are you still of the belief that you can get back to those that 13% kind of past peak margin or better than that or given the changes in the used truck market is that unrealistic now? Yeah I think we can get back I think the timing of it is going to change.
I think it's going to be – certainly going to be tougher to get back next year.
If we have a headwind of call it $20 million $30 million in used vehicle sales.
Because if you think about it the total revenue for FMS is probably $4 billion next year probably somewhere in that range.
So if you've got headwind of $20 million that's 50 basis points right there.
Yes yes yes.
And then just last thing on the leasing fleet for next year you said if we can grow 5 000 units 6 000 units is that kind of a good ballpark or boogie to be thinking about for the next year on the leasing fleet based on what you see in the sales side right now? It's probably early it's probably early to say – I'm using that as what we're – kind of what we started this year.
But yeah what I will tell you is I will expect us to continue to grow even in an environment that is declining.
Hey Scott this is Dennis I'd just add to that.
When you look at our term outs heading into next year they're actually down and we're not pulling back on our sales and marketing as we may have historically in fact we're going to increase it.
So what's going to happen is we're going to free up people to do more hunting.
So we're driving for more fleet growth.
Got you.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Hi guys.
Hello.
Hey.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
I mean first of all congratulations it is a tough environment out there and you got hit by some odd things.
But I want to go back to the larger question here.
You are growing and you are signing new contracts yet cash flow year-to-date isn't any better than last year.
I'm starting to see mileage per unit on your rental side down I think 1% year-on-year you're talking about and I'm looking and a couple years ago the rental fleet relative to the lease fleet was about 31% yet to the day that's up to 34%.
So the rental fleet has grown in relation to lease fleet and I know you said some of that is – a fair amount of that is full service lease support.
But is the disconnect here that the vehicles are more expensive and we're not necessarily pricing those vehicles so that cash flow is up the way our capital spending up or should I think of it more as you guys see what's in the pipeline we don't and we're going to see that cash flow start to catch up to the spending? Yeah.
I think and I'll let Art address it in more detail.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But I think Jeff I think the key thing is that we have a rising rate of growth in our fleet.
Right so we grew remember two years ago we grew our lease fleet 1 700 units.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Last year we grew at 3 200 units.
This year we're growing 60 – 6 000 units to 6 500 units so double.
So the issue is every one of those additional vehicles I buy is another call it $90 000 to $100 000 of CapEx.
So the earnings being generated – the cash earnings being generated get offset pretty quickly by the growth that we're seeing.
So that's the big I think the biggest party of the story.
I think also clearly we can't lose sight of the fact that over the last several years we have had some headwind from maintenance cost that does – that has put pressure on earnings from that standpoint.
The offset has been we've also been selling vehicles for a lot less than what we had expected.
So net-net they were – they've been offsetting each other.
I would expect that for more than we expected – for more than we expected.
So I would expect that even with the slowing UVS environment that's still going to continue relative to what those vehicles used to go for before.
So I think the net of all that is you're getting the free cash flow.
The timing of it might be a little bit different but the biggest headwind that we have on free cash flow is the growth and if the growth were really to temper down you would see that improve.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Well so if I kind of read between the lines on what you're saying I should probably see that ratio of rental vehicles to lease vehicles start to slide back down again and you mentioned rental CapEx will be a little lower next year.
Should I in theory see total capital spending start to pull back a little bit then even though the full service lease fleet is still going to be growing at a good clip? It depends how much we – how much growth we're able to get right.
If we're able to get more growth than we did today I would – I think it's reasonable to assume that rental spending will probably be less.
Now – if I end – and if I end up growing lease at the same clip that I grew it this year.
Yeah net will probably less because you won't have an offset.
If I grow it more then it will – it could offset what I'm going to save in rental.
What I would tell you on that rental growth outpacing lease we have a – what we monitor is rental revenue as a percent of total FMS revenue and we've always talked about we keep it in a range of 20% to 25%.
What you're pointing out is true.
We've got – we're now in the high-end of the 25% but we don't have any intention have never had intention of going beyond that.
So if anything over time that number will probably start to come down.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Yes I'm sorry go ahead.
Yeah.
Jeff I would keep in mind we're trying to highlight to everyone that operating cash flow is a good metric.
That really shows that we're getting the cash back from this growth spending.
You could see that's grown substantially over the last five years to six years.
It's going to be up again this year.
If you look at our EBITDA that's also up.
That's reflecting the earnings or the cash flow that the business does generate.
And it goes back to Robert's point: we're growing faster every year over the last few years and that really impacts that free cash flow metric if you think about this year we got free – growth capital the way we measure it at that about $1.1 billion $1.2 billion and that's really what's driving that negative free cash flow.
Inc.</span></strong> Guys.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question comes from Kevin Sterling with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Robert little bit talk about the technicians and you're ramping up and where do you hire technicians from? Do you hire within the industry or can you go outside of the industry to bring on technicians? Go ahead.
Yeah Kevin.
This is Dennis.
I'll take that one.
So there's really three sources that we look at.
First is obviously the trade schools where we have good relationships.
We got a great relationship also with the military; we've had great success there in bringing our folks home and giving them civilian jobs.
And then we promote from within.
We take people who are on the fuel island who want to become technicians and we take them through our training program and bring them in as what we call our first level technician and give them the opportunity to grow from there.
So those are our three sources and we do pretty well at recruiting folks.
We – as Robert said earlier we haven't had a problem staffing and we don't anticipate seeing that.
It's just a matter of us balancing the productivity we're going to get with the fleet growth we're going to get and then bringing the technicians on at the right time.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you Dennis.
And Robert you know a lot of talk about the used truck market.
I think it was a couple years ago you had to move some of your – I think some of your rental inventory into the wholesale market in the wholesale channel and do you envision do you think you have to do that this time if the used truck market continues to slow or kind of you're at a balance with the inventory where you can continue to sell through the retail channel? Yeah obviously with low inventory levels we have a lot more options in terms of being able to sell more continue to sell more through retail.
The period you're talking about was probably the time we had like 9 000 vehicles to 10 000 vehicles in inventory.
Think about we only – we have about 6 000 now.
And in that environment yeah you had to find other channels but I think the combination of low inventory levels in used trucks and all of the asset management programs that we have in place particularly this – our ability to lease trucks out of our rental fleet and really ramping that up really can help us adjust the size of the rental fleet pretty quickly and without having to maybe leverage the wholesale market.
Got you.
Okay.
Robert thank you so much.
And gentlemen thanks so much for your time today.
Thank you Kevin.
Thank you.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question comes from Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning gents and thanks for the time here.
I wanted to ask with regard to the leverage you are obviously at the high end of your target and I'm wondering to what extent does the balance sheet become an inhibitor to growth? I guess how much – how willing are you to let the loads sort of debt loads exceed sort of target range? Well Tom I would tell you our business just tends to de-lever over time.
This year is little bit of an anomaly.
We've been impacted by FX which is an unusual item.
We don't expect that to continue and even pensions worked against us to a certain extent.
So for our business really negative free cash flows almost needed to require the business to maintain current leverage at $2.50 to $2.75.
So that's why over time you've seen us go down well below target.
So I think right now I'm really not concerned I think we can more than handle the kind of growth that we've been talking about this year.
We've grown the lease fleet 6 000 units 6 500 units grew rental 2 000 plus.
So we were able to handle that still within target range.
That's helpful.
And then I guess just with regard to M&amp;A I mean how should we think about your potential opportunities to seize on anything does come along that would be interesting? What sort of ways in which you'd be – would you be considering opportunistic M&amp;A if it were to come along? I think if you look at the type of M&amp;A we do in FMS is really a more of a rollup and tuck-in of smaller competitor sites company sites.
I'd see us be able to continue to do that without a hitch.
Around supply chain again it's been more around – and dedicated it's going to be more around new capabilities or new verticals that we may want to get into.
Again not very large acquisitions.
So I don't see us really being inhibited there.
Obviously if we found something great that was extremely compelling we could always issue equity if we needed to.
So I don't see us doing that.
I think the majority of the acquisitions that we do are smaller tuck-ins and roll-ups that we can handle.
Can I just ask a follow-on to that.
So obviously you've been really focused on organic growth and you've been growing very nicely to this point.
Is this been more of a deliberate sort of approach to just focus on organic growth opportunities as opposed to letting some of the opportunities sort of pass or is it just that there haven't been as many opportunities for you? No it hasn't been one or the other.
It's just what's been available.
But I've got to tell you what's exciting about our business is that we're not relying on acquisitions right.
We're in an environment that is really healthy for sales and for growth and I'll take that all day.
That's actually I think the easiest and best way to do it.
But we also have the capacity if acquisitions come up we're going to do them.
But as you know there hasn't been anything in – especially in the FMS side there really has been no M&amp;A activity.
If something does come up we're certainly going to be in the game.
And on the logistics and dedicated side anything that we are looking for hasn't come up either.
So that's really the environment and that's really why I think we're fortunate to have the organic growth environment that we're in.
That's great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Tom.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Todd Fowler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks and good morning.
I just wanted to follow up I guess on the leverage question.
I guess realistically how much would you expect to be able to deleverage maybe going into 2016 assuming maybe that 2015 is kind of the peak from a lease writing activity and the lease growth starts to slow a little bit.
How much can you deleverage just by seeing less CapEx? And then what level of leverage would you need to get back to to resume the antidilutive share repurchase? Yes Todd it's hard to say exactly probably a similar kind of free cash flow.
We would expect to deleverage because we don't expect the FX headwinds and hopefully not the pension headwinds you may go down 15 points 20 points I'd say at most.
I think in one year over a period of time our business would delever much more than that.
So I think relative to your question about share repurchases and the like typically that's not going to happen unless we're well under our target leverage range to do any kind of discretionary.
I think on the anti-dilutive we're going to look at that.
Every quarter we've been looking at that and whether we can...
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
...reinstate that.
So I would expect us once we're within our target ranges we would probably turn that back on.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful Art.
And then just one quick follow-up if I could.
Did you give a estimate of what you think the impact of the out of service vehicles were on rental utilization in the quarter? So the 76.4% if you didn't have the out of services issues do you have an idea of where rental utilization would have been excluding that? Yes.
The way I would look at is if you look at the combined number of units that were out of service it's close to 1 000 right? So that's...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So with 1 000 units on our fleet of 35 000 is probably about three percentage points.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I can work into some of that math.
But it seems like that you would have been maybe up a little from a utilization standpoint versus the third quarter of last year then? Yes.
It gets a little tricky because some of those leased units that are being substituted it's in the utilization number but it'd be right around where we were last year.
I would say flat with last year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helps Robert.
Thanks for the time this morning.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Todd.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from Matt Brooklier with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
So question on your seasonal rental business how much visibility do you have there on the portion of the business that's more transactional I guess that the national account and the local accounts versus the rental trucks that go to support the lease business? Yes.
I think I had mentioned it in the script but we are seeing strong rental reservations from our seasonal customers as you might imagine the guys that are ramping up for the holiday the parcel type companies for November and December.
So as we get into that season the units are available which we would expect to have those units rented out to those folks.
So I would tell you what we're seeing is good strong reservation activity from those customers.
If anything the only thing maybe different than last year some of it might be a little bit later than we saw last year which last year they picked them up sooner in the quarter but we're looking at November and December.
Okay.
And any thoughts – it sounds like the straight truck portion of the market is feeling stronger versus the tractor portion and I think that runs also into your rental business you saw similar trends.
Any thoughts as to what's driving I guess greater demand or less supply in the straight truck portion of your business versus the Class 8s? Well some of it is seasonal.
This time of the year you've got the parcel companies who are going to pick up more of the straight trucks than the tractors.
But it could be various things.
I think what we're doing is we're kind of viewing as an opportunity to really de-fleet and get ourselves prepared for the first quarter.
So we're in the process of doing that with the rental lease program and then also with some of the things that we're doing around out-servicing vehicles and putting them at the used truck lots.
Okay.
Appreciate the time.
Thank you Matt.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question comes from Justin Long with Stephens.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning guys.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> You've talked about some longer-term objectives for revenue growth by segment some targeted annual improvement in margins.
When you put together all the pieces it seems to imply double-digit earnings growth.
Over the longer term do you still think that's a good framework for thinking about the business even if you take a more pessimistic view on the used truck market in the next couple of years? Yes I do.
I think we've said high single-digit generally on the top line and I would expect to get some leverage and get double-digit growth on the bottom line.
Obviously if you've got some headwind on the gains line that's going to put some pressure maybe bring it down to the low end of the double-digit maybe even high-single digit but I would expect over the cycle clearly to have double-digit earnings growth along with that high-single digit top line growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I know it's been a long call but the last question.
I was wondering if you could talk about the role you think Ryder can play in the e-commerce trend maybe you could talk about the exposure you have to e-commerce today and looking ahead what opportunities you see across your businesses? Yes I think I'll let Steve kind of elaborate on that a little bit but I think clearly on the truck – wherever there's trucks needed we can play a role on the FMS side and with all the different product offerings that we have which e-commerce certainly all that – the deliveries to homes is a big part of that.
On the logistics side I think there's a lot of stuff if you think about the offerings that we have running distribution centers our ability to manage orders from customers and really what is called the omni-channel and our ability to actually execute that for customers that need it.
We've got great expertise and capabilities there but I'll let Steve to elaborate a little more on that.
Yes I would just add we do that today for many of our customers across multiple verticals.
We have the capability to not only deliver into retail DCs but into store fronts through cross dock networks and last mile as well as to consumers' homes.
So I think we've got a really good model right now for our key customers and we're going to continue to focus on additional capabilities to expand that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I'll leave it at that.
Thanks for the time.
Thanks Justin.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Casey Deak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
Hello.
Hey.
Just wanted to go back when you talked about the rule of thumb Robert of 35 vehicles to one tech being hired.
Have you seen that compress over time as you've rolled out on-demand maintenance and more transactional businesses? And then more strategically when you're looking at that transactional piece of the business how are you modeling out the staffing needs there? I would think that that would be a lot harder to know how many techs you'd need with the uncertainty of how many trips those trucks are going to be making to your shops.
Yes well what I would tell you is the number over the last several years has actually grown.
As we've improved productivity you're getting more trucks per technician on our base fleet.
On the on-demand stuff you're right.
It's a little trickier but you have a general idea of where the trucks are and the amount of work that a technician does on an on-demand truck is typically a lot significantly less.
So that's where you're able to leverage some of the capabilities.
When we get a large on-demand customer though we'll have a contract and we'll know where the vehicles reside and where we need to staff up then we staff up and we can adjust that as needed.
Dennis you want to add anything to that.
Yes.
I would just add that as we're viewing it as we bring a technician on if the on-demand revenue of the truck doesn't come in we're looking at the technician running more road calls which our customers like versus using a third-party.
We're looking at rather than sending work down the road to a vendor keeping it in-house.
We're looking at increasing our PM currency even more.
We're looking at lowering over time.
So the point is you can bring the technician on.
There is a lot of work to be done which then you can free that up if the on-demand truck comes in.
So...
Yes we have other ways of flexing...
Right ...to be able to utilize the tech.
Okay.
I guess that's helpful.
And I was thinking if this business really does ramp as you'd expect it to with the full rollout and continues over the next few years is this something that three quarters four quarter down the road you get more of a backup in your maintenance as you did in this quarter or you feel much more comfortable with where you are in your level of staffing and ability to flex that? Thanks.
Yes.
I think obviously this quarter has taught us a lesson.
So we're obviously looking at the modeling.
But I don't seen an issue with where we're going of maintaining the staffing and the work is there to flex as more on-demand comes in.
So we see real opportunity to continue growing this product line.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nicole O'Brien at Stockpoint (1:12:27).
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Is Nicole (1:12:42) on? Yes but his or her line isn't speaking right now.
All right.
So sir at this time I would like to hand the call over to Mr.
Robert Sanchez.
Well.
Okay we're sorry about that Nicole (1:12:57).
Maybe we'll pick up your question later.
Well listen I think that concludes the call.
We're actually about 15 minutes past the top of the hour but I wanted to make sure we got everybody's question in considering the type of quarter that we had.
So look forward to our call again in a few months as we discuss 2016.
Anyway have a safe day and we'll see you on the road.
Thank you speakers.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Ryder System Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines are in a listen-only mode until after the presentation.
Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce Bob Braun Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations for Ryder.
Corporate Strategy &amp; Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and welcome to Ryder's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference and 2016 Forecast Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that during this presentation you will hear forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in economic business competitive market political and regulatory factors.
More detailed information about these factors is contained in this morning's press release and in Ryder's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Presenting on today's call are Robert Sanchez Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Art Garcia Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally Dennis Cooke President of Global Fleet Management Solutions; John Diez President of Dedicated Transportation Solutions; and Steve Sensing President of Global Supply Chain Solutions are on the call today available for questions following the presentation.
With that let me turn it over to Robert.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
This morning we'll recap our fourth quarter 2015 results review the asset management area and discuss forecast for 2016.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
With that let's turn to an overview of our fourth quarter results.
Comparable earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.66 for the fourth quarter 2015 up 4% from a $1.60 in the prior year.
Comparable results were below our forecast range of $1.72 to $1.82 but were impacted by $0.06 of unusual insurance related items.
Absent this we were at the low end of our forecast range due to our used vehicle sales and rental results.
Fourth quarter comparable results exclude $0.19 of restructuring and other costs and $0.05 of non-operating pension costs.
The restructuring costs during the quarter are related to workforce reductions impacting approximately 250 employees and to a lesser extent the pending divestiture of a small logistics operation in Canada.
Comparable earnings from the prior year exclude a $1.38 primarily for pension buyout cost.
Operating revenue which excludes fuel and subcontracted transportation revenue grew by 7% to a record $1.4 billion for the fourth quarter and was higher in all business segments.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange operating revenue grew by 9%.
Total revenue increased by 1% and was impacted by lower fuel costs passed through to customers and foreign exchange.
Page five includes some additional information for the fourth quarter.
The average number of diluted shares outstanding for the quarter increased to 53.3 million shares up from 53 million shares last year.
In December our prior repurchase program expired and we receive board authorization for a new two year 2 million anti-dilutive share repurchase plan.
The new plan allows management to repurchase up to 1.5 million shares issued to employees after December 1 2015 and another 500 000 shares from the recently expired plan that were not repurchased while activity was paused in early 2015.
We expect to begin repurchases in mid-year 2016 but we'll continue to evaluate the appropriate timing primarily based on our declining balance sheet leverage.
Excluding pension costs and other items the comparable tax rate was 32.1% below the prior year's rate of 34.4% reflecting a $2 million Canadian income tax settlement.
Page six highlights key financial statistics on a full-year basis.
Operating revenue grew at 6% to $5.6 billion or increased by 8% excluding FX.
Comparable EPS from continuing operations were $6.13 up 10% from last year.
The spread between adjusted return on capital and cost of capital widened to 140 basis points up 30 basis points from the prior year driven primarily by higher leverage and higher earnings.
I'll turn now turn to page seven and discuss key trends we saw in the business segments during the quarter.
Fleet Management Solutions' operating revenue which excludes fuel grew 7% driven mainly by growth in full-service lease and commercial rental.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange FMS operating revenue was up by 9%.
Full-service lease revenue increased 7% or 9% excluding FX due to fleet growth and higher rates on replacement vehicles reflecting the higher cost of new engine technology.
The lease fleet grew organically by 6 800 vehicles year-over-year excluding the impact from planned reductions of UK trailers.
This was above our initial forecast of 4 000 vehicles for the year and above our most recent forecast of 6 000 to 6 500 vehicles.
Sequentially from the third quarter the lease fleet increased by 1 600 vehicles excluding UK trailers.
Miles driven per vehicle per day on U.S.
lease power units increased 1% versus prior year and continued to run at normal historical levels.
Contract maintenance revenue increased 2%.
The average contract maintenance fleet grew by approximately 3 900 vehicles from the prior year and 4 100 units sequentially reflecting a significant new customer that started up late in the fourth quarter and will primarily benefit revenue in 2016.
Contract-related maintenance was up 14% from the prior year.
Included in contract-related maintenance are 7 200 vehicles serviced during the quarter under on-demand maintenance agreements an increase of 29% from the prior year.
Commercial rental revenue was up 6% for the quarter or 8% excluding FX.
Although U.S.
demand increased it was up by less than expected and reflected about two weeks later start to the holiday shipping season versus our forecast.
We also saw less robust demand than anticipated in the tractor class.
Global pricing was up 3% for the quarter reflecting higher pricing in the U.S.
and Canada and was in line with our expectation.
The average rental fleet grew by 7% from the prior year.
Rental utilization on power units was 77.6% down 250 basis points from the prior year but still at a strong level.
Utilization comparisons reflect the demand items I mentioned earlier as well as unusually high utilization levels in the prior year.
Although commercial rental delivered solid growth due to a high level of uncertainty regarding the macro environment and somewhat less robust demand conditions with rental tractors we made a decision to downsize our fleet during the quarter in order to more conservatively position our fleet for 2016.
The ending rental fleet declined by 1 700 vehicles sequentially from the third quarter.
Used vehicle results were negatively impacted primarily by lower pricing on tractors.
I'll discuss those results separately in a few minutes.
Overall FMS earnings increased due to higher full-service lease results and solid rental performance.
Better lease results reflect fleet growth and vehicle residual value benefits.
These benefits were largely offset by lower used vehicle sales results and maintenance cost to downsize our rental fleet and reduce out-of-service vehicles.
Earnings before tax in FMS increased 1%.
FMS earnings as a percent of operating revenue were 12.4% down 70 basis points from the prior year.
Of this 70 basis point decline 60 basis points was due to used vehicle sales.
I'll now turn to Dedicated Transportation Solutions on page eight.
Operating revenue growth was strong at 11% due to new business higher volumes and increased pricing.
Total revenue was up 5% reflecting lower fuel costs passed through to customers.
DTS earnings increased 1% due to higher operating revenue and overhead cost improvements partially offset by a customer bankruptcy charge of $1.5 million.
Segment earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 5.9% down 60 basis points from the prior year.
The bankruptcy charge negatively impacted EBT margins by approximately 80 basis points.
I'll turn now to Supply Chain Solutions on page nine.
Operating revenue grew 4% due to new business higher pricing and increased volumes.
SCS operating revenue grew 7% including the impact of foreign exchange.
Total revenue was slightly down as higher operating revenue was offset by lower third-party purchase transportation costs and lower fuel costs passed through to customers.
SCS earnings before tax were up 5% due to operating revenue growth improved operating performance and overhead cost improvements partially offset by a large medical claim of $2.2 million in the quarter.
Segment earnings before tax as a percent of operating revenue were 7.4% for the quarter up 10 basis points from the prior year.
The large medical claim negatively impacted EBT percent by nearly 70 basis points.
Page 10 shows the business segment view of the income statement I just discussed.
It is included here for your reference.
Page 11 reflects our full-year results by business segment.
In the interest of time I won't review these results in detail but will just highlight the bottom-line results.
Comparable earnings from continuing operations were $327 million up 10% from last year.
At this point I'll turn the call over to our CFO Art Garcia to cover several items including capital expenditures.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 12 full-year gross capital expenditures were $2.7 billion.
It's up $400 million from the prior year.
This increase reflects full-service lease fleet growth due to customer contracts signed as well as planned rental investments.
We realized proceeds primarily from the sale of revenue earning equipment of $427 million; that's down $70 million from the prior year.
The decrease primarily reflects planned lower volumes of vehicles sold.
Full-year net capital expenditures increased by $468 million to almost $2.3 billion.
Turning to the next page we generated cash from operating activities of $1.44 billion for 2015 up approximately $60 million.
The increase was driven primarily by higher cash-based earnings.
We generated almost $2 billion of total cash during the year consistent with the prior year.
Cash payments for capital expenditures increased by around $410 million to $2.7 billion.
Free cash flow for 2015 was negative $728 million versus the prior year negative of $315 million reflecting increased capital expenditures to support growth.
Our growth capital spend for 2015 was $1.3 billion.
Page 14 addresses our debt-to-equity position.
Total debt of approximately $5.5 billion increased by almost $800 million from year-end 2014.
Debt-to-equity at the end of 2015 increased to 278% up from 260% in the prior year and just above the top end of our target range of 225% to 275%.
Leverage increased due to foreign exchange as well as vehicle investments to fund growth.
Year-end equity was just under $2 billion up $168 million for the year primarily due to earnings partially offset by foreign exchange and dividends.
At this point I'll hand the call back over to Robert to provide an asset management update.
Thanks Art.
Page 16 summarizes key results from asset management area.
Used vehicle inventory held for sale was 8 000 vehicles up from 5 500 vehicles in the prior year and 1 900 vehicles above the third quarter.
This is at the high end of our target range of 6 000 vehicles to 8 000 vehicles.
The increased inventory reflects our decision during the fourth quarter to downsize the rental fleet in order to position it more conservatively for 2016.
We expect to work this inventory down over the next few quarters and end 2016 closer to the bottom end of our target range.
We sold 4 500 used vehicles during the quarter down 2% from the prior year but up 2% sequentially from the third quarter.
We sold 17 900 vehicles during the full year.
During the quarter used vehicle pricing declined by more than forecasted particularly for tractors.
Compared with the fourth quarter of 2014 proceeds from vehicles sold were down 5% for tractors and up 5% for trucks.
From a sequential standpoint tractor pricing was down 9% and truck pricing was down 2% versus the third quarter of 2015.
As compared to peak prices realized in the second quarter overall used prices were down 9% as compared to our expectations of down 7% driven primarily by used-tractor pricing which was down 11% from the second quarter peak.
The number of leased vehicles that were extended beyond their original lease term decreased versus last year by around 750 units or 12% during 2015 and is well below recessionary levels.
This reflects a lower number of lease contract expirations this year.
Early termination of leased vehicles increased by 70 units this year and were generally in line with levels seen over the past five years.
I'll turn now turn to page 18 to cover our outlook for 2016.
Page 18 and 19 highlight some of the key assumptions we've made in the development of our 2016 earnings forecast.
As you know the economic and freight environments are highly uncertain at the moment which makes forecasting challenging.
Our approach to the forecast was to assume a significant negative impact in used-vehicle sales in a weaker commercial rental environment as well as some headwinds in new lease sales.
We think this is a prudent approach to our initial forecast for the year and we'll make any appropriate adjustment as conditions merit.
When looking at our earnings forecast it is especially important this year to consider the assumptions that are driving those numbers.
Our 2016 forecast anticipates slow to moderate growth for the overall economy.
We're expecting our average interest rate to be consistent with 2015 as lower fixed rate refinancing rates offset higher variable rates.
We're assuming foreign exchange rates remain stable at their current levels which will result in a negative year-over-year impact to both revenue and earnings.
In Fleet Management we're expecting continued growth in full-service lease based on our strong recent sales activity and secular trends that favor outsourcing somewhat offset by softer freight conditions.
For 2016 we're forecasting lease fleet growth of 3 500 vehicles excluding UK trailers which would be our fifth consecutive year of organic fleet growth.
This is similar to the initial forecast we provided in 2015 of 4 000 vehicles.
We expect over a third of our new lease sales to continue to come from customers new to outsourcing driven by our initiatives to penetrate the non-outsourced market.
In rental we're assuming softer conditions with demand forecast down 5%.
This is worse than what we experienced in 2012 but not as bad as what we saw in the last freight recession.
Utilization is expected to be down especially in the first half while pricing is forecast to be up slightly reflecting higher vehicle cost.
As I mentioned earlier we took actions during the fourth quarter to more conservatively position our fleet in light of a softer and uncertain market condition.
For the full year we expect the average rental fleet to be down 4% or 1 900 vehicles.
Our forecast also assumes used-vehicle pricing will decrease materially in 2016 particularly for tractors.
Tractor pricing is forecast to be down by 20% from the peak in the second quarter of 2015 which would drive an overall price decline of 11% across all vehicle types.
This is equivalent to the price declines we've seen in other recent downturns including the 2008/2009 period.
Volumes are expected to be higher as we work down the inventory of vehicles that were outserviced during the fourth quarter of 2015.
Significant increases in used vehicle pricing over the past five years will benefit depreciation rates in 2016 as these results are blended into our vehicle residual calculation.
These benefits will partially offset lower expected gains on used vehicles sold.
Overall we expect higher FMS earnings due to growth in our contractual full-service lease product line partially offset by lower used-vehicle sales results and to a lesser extent commercial rental.
Turning to page 19 DTS revenue is forecast to benefit from strong new sales activity including continued conversion of lease customers to Dedicated Solutions.
Dedicated earnings will benefit from revenue growth lower insurance and lower overhead cost.
In Supply Chain we expect revenue growth driven by new sales partially offset by foreign exchange impacts.
We're expecting volumes to be stable with earnings growth coming from new business.
We've made reductions in discretionary and overhead costs in order to align our business with slower expected market conditions.
We anticipate resuming anti-dilutive share repurchases in the second half of 2016 based on our current leverage projections.
Despite this a modest increase in share count will negatively impact earnings since repurchases have been paused since early 2015.
Finally we're forecasting an EPS headwind due to a higher tax rate resulting from increased earnings in higher tax jurisdictions.
Page 20 provides a summary of key financial statistics for our 2016 forecast based on these assumptions.
We're expecting operating revenue to grow 5% with revenue growth in all business segments.
Comparable earnings per share is forecast in a range of $6.10 to $6.30 in 2016 as compared to $6.13 last year.
This reflects continued growth in our contractual product lines offset by a softer expected environment for our transactional businesses.
Our average diluted share count is forecast to increase to 53.6 million shares from 53.3 million last year.
We project a comparable tax rate of 36.3% up from last year's rate of 35.3%.
The spread between our return on capital and cost of capital is forecast to narrow to 100 basis points to 110 basis points down by 30 basis points to 40 basis points from last year primarily reflecting lower results in used vehicle sales.
Our 2016 return-on-equity forecast is 15.3%.
The next page outlines our revenue expectations by business segment.
In Fleet Management operating revenue is expected to increase by 4% in 2016 or 6% excluding foreign exchange.
FMS growth is driven primarily by higher full-service lease and contract-maintenance revenue partially offset by forecasted declines in commercial rental.
FX is expected to negatively impact revenue growth by two percentage points.
Full-service lease revenue is forecast to grow by 6% or 8% excluding FX.
A higher lease fleet count due to new sales activity and higher lease fleet reflect increased vehicle investment costs are expected to be partially offset by weaker freight conditions.
Longer term we continue to expect that FMS can deliver operating revenue growth in the high-single digits due to both market trends and our initiatives to drive increased rates of outsourcing.
We're forecasting a 4% decrease in rental revenue reflecting expectations for weaker demand conditions.
We're expecting operating revenue growth of 9% and Dedicated reflecting strong new sales activity.
Supply Chain operating revenue is expected to grow by 5% or 7% excluding foreign exchange also reflecting new sales.
Page 22 provides a chart outlining the key changes in our comparable EPS forecast from 2015 to 2016.
Weaker market conditions in used-vehicle sales are expected to impact earnings by $0.62.
Pricing on tractors is forecast to decline by 20% from peak while truck pricing which has been holding up better is expected to decline by 5% from the peak.
Sales volumes are expected to be higher due to the limited inventory available for sale in 2015.
Commercial rental is expected to decrease EPS by $0.28 based on lower forecast demand and utilization on a smaller average fleet partially offset by higher residual values.
Higher compensation expense is expected impact earnings by $0.25 per share this year.
This includes the cost of merit increases higher medical costs and planned bonus.
We continue to make strategic investments to drive future growth particularly for IT and sales initiatives but at a slower pace than in recent years.
These initiatives will reduce EPS by $0.09.
Higher earnings from other FMS product offerings such as on demand and contract-related maintenance will be partially offset by fuel driven by a tightening wholesale versus retail spread.
In total these items are expected to contribute an additional $0.09 to EPS.
Growth in Dedicated revenue combined with margin expansion should add $0.20.
In Supply Chain we expect an additional $0.25 driven by primarily by growth.
Workforce restructuring and other cost-savings actions were taken in order to better align our business with current market conditions.
These actions are expected to generate an annual benefit of $0.38.
The largest driver of 2015 EPS improvement is growth and increased returns in our contractual FMS product lines totaling an additional $0.73 this year.
This results from fleet growth and a depreciation benefit from higher residual values.
The net impact of the operational items I've mentioned so far will result in an EPS of $6.54.
In addition however we're forecasting a negative $0.24 impact from higher tax rate increased share count and impacts from foreign exchange.
This brings the high end of our comparable EPS forecast to $6.30 with a range of $6.10 to $6.30 forecast for the year.
I'll turn the call over to Art now to cover capital spending and cash flow.
Thanks Robert.
Turning to page 23 we're forecasting total gross capital spending of $2 billion down almost $700 million from last year with lower spending in lease and significantly lower spending in rental.
Lease capital is forecast to decrease by $280 million due to lower forecast fleet growth and a softer freight environment.
We are planning minimal capital spending for rental of $90 million down $430 million from the prior year.
The average rental fleet is forecasted to decline by 4%.
The planned spending here is related to a change in the fleet mix to drive activity with better performing vehicle types.
Proceeds from used-vehicle sales are forecast to increase by about 8% to $460 million.
Higher sales volumes are expected to be partially offset by lower pricing particularly on tractors.
As a result net capital expenditures are forecast at $1.6 billion.
This represents a $700 million decrease from 2015.
Free cash flow is forecast at positive $100 million reflecting lower growth spending in lease and only a minimal replacement capital spend in rental.
With higher expected free cash flow the business will de-lever and we expect debt-to-equity to come down to 245% at year-end just below the midpoint of our target range of 225% to 275%.
This will provide us with additional balance sheet flexibility going forward and will be the key driver in restarting anti-dilutive share repurchases.
We've talked in recent years about the impact that higher growth capital spending has on the business.
Page 24 highlights the amount of growth capital spending we've had by year driven from both fleet growth and higher vehicle investment cost per unit and its impact on cash flow.
For 2016 we expect to spend $680 million in growth capital for full-service lease with no growth capital in rental.
That compares to growth capital spend of $1.3 billion in 2015.
The box on the right-hand side of the page highlights 2016 growth capital spending in lease.
An increase in the number of lease vehicles will require $275 million of capital while higher per unit cost will require an additional $405 million.
Free cash flow is favorably impacted by reduced capital expenditures demonstrating the counter-cyclical nature of our business model.
As you can see in the bottom line of the page growth capital spending in recent years has significantly benefited operating cash.
Operating cash flow is projected to be over $1.6 billion this year up over 60% since 2009.
At this point let me turn the call back over to Robert to recap our EPS forecast.
Thanks Art.
Turning to page 25 we're forecasting EPS of $6.10 to $6.30 versus a comparable $6.13 last year.
This improvement is despite a $0.24 negative impact from higher – a higher tax rate share count and negative foreign exchange.
We're also providing a first quarter EPS forecast of $1.03 to $1.08 versus a comparable prior-year EPS of $1.08.
The first quarter forecast reflects used-vehicle sales headwind and softer rental performance as well as an atypical fuel benefit of $0.03 last year.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
We had a lot of material covered today with both the fourth quarter results and the 2016 outlook.
As a result I'd like to ask you to limit yourself to one question each.
If you have additional questions you're welcome to get back in the queue and we'll take as many questions as we can in the time allotted.
At this time I'll turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
The first question today is from Ben Hartford with Baird.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good summary.
Maybe Robert if we could just talk about long term how you're looking at the FMS business.
What is the confidence today after some of the challenges in the back half of 2015 the outlook that you provided here in 2016 with regard to softening used truck pricing and weaker rental utilization? What is the confidence that the growth that you've seen in the contractual business specifically full service lease is leverageable is producing the operating leverage that you had expected such that as you continue to grow that book of business and we get through some of these cyclical headwinds in 2016 that we will start to see operating leverage in FMS with line of sight to exceeding prior peak margins? Yeah I think Ben the confidence level is very high around the contractual business.
If you look at the growth that we had in 2015 the lease fleet growth of 6 800 vehicles we're looking at next year even in a softer environment of starting out with a forecast of 3 500 vehicles.
The secular trends that are driving this outsourcing continue to be very strong.
We had a very strong fourth quarter sales in FMS.
I've not seen really a slowdown there at all and we feel really good about our ability to do that.
I think clearly with – if you look at just the overall your question about earnings leverage the headwind from UVS is meaningful.
Certainly what we have forecasted in 2016 is a meaningful headwind with a pretty significant decline in pricing.
These cycles happen in used truck sales.
We know they typically last four quarters to six quarters and it's typically just when supply and demand get out of whack a little bit.
But we see us getting through this like we've gotten through them in the past.
I feel really good about our ability to respond quickly to them and see us continuing our target of getting above our prior peak once we have gotten past this slowdown in our transactional businesses.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And I guess to that point given the confidence given the fact that you have been through a number of cycles you personally and the company obviously and you've seen this before kind of extending the anti-dilutive share repurchase is good.
You're going to generate cash this year.
Why not be more aggressive as it relates to buybacks given where the stock is trading relative to history on various valuation metrics? Why not be a little bit more aggressive going above and beyond just the anti-dilutive share repurchase given the confidence that you have in the outlook of the business? Thanks.
Well I think Ben what we're setting up (34:13) -- what we're talking about right now is based on – right now we're in the high-end of our target leverage range we're a little bit above it.
So clearly in this environment it's difficult to do that.
As we look out we say if this environment materializes in 2016 and we have a weak freight environment as we have forecast here we expect our leverage will drop to the middle of our range and we're going to be restarting the anti-dilutive repurchase program.
I think depending on how this thing materializes we can make different decisions as we get there.
I just think as we sit here today on the high end of our target leverage that it's difficult for us to say we're going to do anything beyond that yet.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the time.
Okay.
Our next question is from David Ross with Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes good morning gentlemen.
Hi David.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So could we talk a little bit more about the deceleration in the fleet gross in the leasing in 2016? You're looking – going back down to 3 500 vehicles and that's with some strong fourth quarter sales at FMS.
So are those fourth quarter sales already baked into that implying I guess more deceleration through the year? And if you talk a little bit about why this environment matters for lease growth if a lot of these leases are long-term contractual in nature.
They are trucks that people need and it's not as cyclical as the rental division? Right.
Well let me point out.
We're still forecasting growth.
This would be the second largest growth rate we've had in the company.
So we're not really backing off growth.
What we're looking at and saying if you look at the overall freight environment if freight environment slows down it all trickles down and at some point you have less of a need for trucks.
You're right.
We are kind of assuming that's going to happen later in the year because what we're seeing right now is a relatively strong environment in terms of truck leasing.
So we put that forecast out there based on again a very soft freight environment in 2016.
But as the year goes on we'll adjust based on what we're seeing and I feel really good about the work that Dennis is doing with his team on converting more people to leasing.
This will be the first time that we have five-straight years of lease fleet growth and we feel good.
The other thing is I'd tell you is as we cut back in some areas we did not cut back in the number of front-line salespeople that we have knocking on doors and finding new customers.
So I'd say that's just to give you a little better color as to where how we came up with the 3 500 vehicles but clearly we'll see how the year progresses and if the freight environment comes in better then you'll see us do better than that.
I don't know Art Dennis if you want add anything to that? Yeah.
David I would just add as we look at Class 8 production for the year we're looking at a number that's similar to what it was in 2014 and in 2014 we had 3 200 units of fleet growth so we think the 3 500 number is a prudent number to start the year with.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then what is the average lease fleet age currently? Do you think given the growth prospects that it should still lower again in 2016 or should it flatten out this year? Yeah David it's Dennis again.
So the fleet age right now for Power is at 37 months and as we look into next year we do see that declining slightly not much but slightly.
So that's what we see right now.
I think David remember the benefit of the declining fleet age was sort of behind us or even with the new technology and all it doesn't really play as big a factor anymore.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thanks David.
Our next question is from Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Just on the used truck pricing I think you said down 20%.
What have you seen to date relative to that peak? How much incremental downside on used truck pricing are you assuming in the guidance? Is there maybe...
Well we'll...
Any color you can give us on January so far? And then is there any good sensitivity to use if we want to assume a 30% drop or something what that means? Well I would – here's the way I would frame it up.
We've seen -we're talking about is tractor prices and primarily Class 8 is where the bigger issue is.
So what we saw in the fourth quarter was 11% so we're assuming another 9 percentage points beyond that which is consistent with what we've seen in other – in prior-used vehicle sales downturns.
The most – several of the most recent ones including the one during the last freight recession so that's sort of how we've teed that up.
We have not seen 20% but we're assuming there's going to be some further deterioration as there continues to be – appear to be an oversupply of Class 8 tractors in the marketplace.
Okay.
And just given that oversupply what are you assuming for OEM pricing that you're paying? Are you starting to see that come down yet or is that more stable? No.
Remember we're buying directly from the OEM so we don't – we're typically getting some pretty competitive pricing regardless of the environment.
So I don't see that as a big change.
And you're not seeing that come down with the OEMs? It's kind of just flattish? No it's relatively stable.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you Scott.
Our next question is coming from Brooklier of Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
So I wanted to go back to the expectations for lease fleet growth The 3 500 unit addition number.
Can you talk to roughly how much of that you've already won? How much of that is already contract signed at this point in time? Now remember it's a long – it's 12 months so it's really hard to kind of break that out.
I think you're going to see us continue to have probably higher than that growth in the first half of the year and then maybe slowdown in the second half.
Again more based on what we predict or our assumptions not we predict our assumptions around a weaker freight environment.
So that's kind of the way it lays out.
But I would tell you fourth quarter was a strong sales quarter for full-service lease and we've got a healthy pipeline going into the first quarter and our sales guys are busy.
So as of right now we haven't seen that materialize.
I guess what I'd want to probably point out is unlike other years where I think we've had better visibility to the year I think this year really it is a little murkier.
There's a lot more uncertainty.
You've heard a lot of talk about the industrial recession and a softer freight environment from some of the truckers.
We've seen it manifest itself right now in our used truck pricing a bit and clearly a little bit more in rental.
But that's why we felt it was prudent to really build this plan around that type of an environment.
The truth is it could turn out to be better and if it does I think we're well positioned to capitalize on that certainly our lease sales will do better.
It could help our used truck pricing and rental especially in the first half of the year could benefit from a better environment.
So I just want to make sure everybody is clear on that.
Okay.
And then just a kind of a segue into a rental question.
Your guidance talks to the fleet being down 4% but I guess your pricing mix being pretty much flat.
So I'm trying to get a sense for what's kind of your confidence level that you're able to I guess maintain pricing on a year-over-year basis at rental? And I guess is there any potential offset in the fact that if maybe if the market is a little bit weaker than we anticipate from here that there could be increased demand on the rental side and you could actually see I guess better pricing? Well there's a lot of questions in there.
First of all the price increase is something we're implementing early in the year and we do feel in this environment we have an opportunity to get it.
The vehicles cost more and the overall market I think is moving in that direction.
Clearly if things – we think that will continue.
We believe that in the environment we've painted here with softer freight environment we can still achieve that pricing increase.
Thank you.
Go ahead Dennis.
Yeah.
I would just add to that Matt.
If we do see a stronger rental environment we'll utilize our centralized asset management capability to move units that are coming off of lease that still have life with them.
We'll move those into the rental product line.
If we do see upside we would do that before we would spend CapEx on vehicles.
So again we'll leverage our central asset management capability.
Yeah.
It's our ability to flex up if things are better.
I'm sorry Art did you want to mention something? Yeah.
I wanted to follow back up on Matt's comment given we did have a good sales quarter Q4 and we do see a softer environment as we go into 2016 you're going to see our fleet growth probably be a little more front-end loaded this year than it was last year given that.
Good.
Okay.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you Matt.
Our next question is coming from Justin Long with Stephens.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning.
Good morning Justin.
Inc.</span></strong> There's a lot more talk today about the possibility of a recession on the horizon and with that in mind I was wondering if you could just talk about how outsourcing trended during the past recession? Did you see a trend towards more outsourcing as your customers looked to cut costs or did you see more hesitancy from customers to make structural changes to their network in a weak economic environment? Well when you say the last recession if you look at 2008/2009 that's probably a tough comp because everything was down during that time.
But certainly in prior recessions to that I would say there is some headwind clearly on existing customers not needing to grow.
But our opportunity and I think with our improved sales and marketing efforts the additional sales people we have on the street the overall secular trends that favor outsourcing I see it as an opportunity because I think as customers are looking or prospects are looking for ways to cut costs and we've got products that typically can get you 10% to 15% savings I think it's a nice opportunity for us to be able to grow.
I think this is a little different environment than – certainly different environment that the pre 2008 2009 recessions and I think it – I guess to your point I think it could create an opportunity for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And just given the uncertainty could you talk about the month-to-month trends that you saw in rental? I'm just curious if things got incrementally weaker over the course of the quarter and also if you could share what you're seeing so far or what you saw in January? Yeah Justin.
This is Dennis I'll start with Q4.
As Robert said in his opening remarks we looked at the parcel companies.
They were picking up units a little later than we expected than what we had forecasted.
So October and early November a little weaker than we expected and then I got significantly stronger as we headed into the back half of November and December.
And in January the markets looked decent as we look at the demand here in the U.S.
in particular.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kristine Kubacki of Avondale Partners.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question.
Good morning Kristine.
Wondering if you could talk more about the maintenance trends both in contract and contract related.
You keep talking about a softer freight environment and presumably less utilization across the whole truck fleet.
Are you able to continue to add more trucks to that and offset less maintenance as I would assume per truck.
And I guess to add on to the question that was a little bit earlier is this an area where fleets will continue to outsource during a soft freight environment or will they ever think about bringing that back in house? Well let me just split out contract maintenance versus contract related.
Contract maintenance is under a contract where a customer is paying typically a flat rate for maintenance and then we handle all the maintenance associated with that.
So it isn't a tool that a customer will pull back on maintenance.
We maintain those vehicles to our standards.
Contract-related and within that on-demand maintenance you're right.
When things slow down they may pull back on some of the maintenance; may run a fewer miles.
But I think in this environment given our opportunity to save customers money we could offset that with growth of new customers.
So I think that's the two sides of the coin if you will as it relates to growth in those items.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Art Hatfield of Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Hey Robert.
Hey Art.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everybody.
I've kind of been in and out.
Listening to some your commentary just a couple quick ones if I could.
You talking about a softer freight environment in 2016 and the last three months of 2015 you did see miles per unit per day increase 1.3%.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you expect that to go negative in Q1 or is that something that you may be up a little bit but worsens as we move through the year? No.
We're still assuming that to be flattish I would say.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
and then on the used vehicle sales just a two-part question on that.
One I didn't hear you comment on this but the 8 000 units held for sale at the end of the quarter kind of what's your thought on where that goes to over the next quarter or two? And then secondly you commented on how you are looking at this relative to prior downturns in the used vehicle market.
Is there any reason to believe because of model year changes over the last several years that we should think about that it could be different than we've seen in last cycles? Well first Art let me – on the 8 000 units.
that came up really in the fourth quarter because we did move a lot of units out of rental.
We thought it was the right thing to do to start to get the rental fleet down further to be more conservative in our fleeting.
So those vehicles were out serviced and put at the UTC for sale.
So you did see it come up to the 8 000 units.
We expect that to probably peak a little bit over 8 000 units in the second quarter and then really start to work its way down.
So by the end of the year we expect that to be closer to the 6 000 unit range so well within.
And again that's primarily also because we don't have a lot of units coming up for renewal this year; certainly we're below the average so that kind of help us throughout the year.
As it relates to the pricing of used tractors or used trucks new technology versus old I would tell you that our experience certainly through last year prior to this downturn was that the new – we were getting the appropriate pricing on the new technology.
So we've got to see how that plays out.
We've got a team that's out I think doing a great job of marketing the new technology.
There's – again you do get to the point where the old technology become so old that a customer wanting a certain amount of uptime just has to go with something newer and we're probably getting to that point.
As you know we hold our vehicles probably longer than most in the industry.
So we feel good about the opportunity to sell the new technology and to continue to move those at appropriate pricing especially as we get past this soft patch that we're seeing in the market.
Inc.</span></strong> If I could follow up on that real quick.
So within your plan to have that peak a little bit above 8 000 vehicles held for sale and then work down to 6 000 vehicles and the headwind of $0.62 in 2016 does that assume all those vehicles get sold through the retail channel? No.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
We're doing the appropriate change in mix in order to be able to move those.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
By the way that's built into the 20%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Art.
Our next question is coming from Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
I wanted to focus a little bit on DCS (sic) [DTS] (52:30).
You talked about the big revenue increase there and then I'm looking at the guidance you've given on gain on sale and kind of bridging the gap on 140 basis point to 110 basis point spread.
What kind of new business are you bringing on there and what type of – sorry: blanking on this.
What type of fleet growth are you looking for there? You talking about on the DTS side? Inc.</span></strong> DTS side yeah.
We're...
Inc.</span></strong> Because it looks like revenue per unit on DTS is down on a year-to-year basis almost 7%.
Maybe I'm calculating that wrong.
So I'm just wondering what kind of new business is coming on there.
Well Jeff this is John.
Let me try to address a few things.
First on the growth side I think you had it right.
We had 11% growth on dry revenue.
So first up make sure that you're working off the dry revenue number because the total revenue number is impacted by fuel changes and in price the fuel is down 30%.
Inc.</span></strong> Fuel okay.
But if you look at our base measure of operating revenue we're up 11% and that's been growing in the second half.
We've had some pretty good traction with prior fleet conversions and some of that has taken place in the second half of the year.
So that's what impacted fourth quarter if you look at the sales and the prior-fleet conversions we saw during the quarter.
And then that momentum we expect to carry over for the first half of 2016 and then it will temper in the second half of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
I think the fleet count as it relates to DTS the revenue per unit could vary based on the type of accounting.
They have more trailers than tractors.
So I think you focus on the revenue growth.
We're looking at 9% revenue growth in 2016.
So we're really expecting that continued strong sales and strong growth there as we convert customers that lease into Dedicated.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
And just one detail follow-up.
You gave a great break out on vehicles by lease versus rental versus DTS and you spoke about the differences you were seeing on truck pricing versus tractor pricing.
Can you give us a rough idea how the fleet breaks out right now trucks versus tractors versus trailers? Held for sale fleet.
You're talking about the fleet that's at the used truck centers or are you talking about the overall fleet? Inc.</span></strong> Used truck centers.
Thank you.
Used trucks hang on.
Let me – the team is looking that up.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah that's fine.
We can go to the next caller and then we'll come back.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
All right Jeff.
Our next question is from John Barnes with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
A couple of things.
First you mentioned that normally used truck cycles last kind of four to six quarters.
You obviously went through a period where you enjoyed like that three-year reprieve where there were not a lot of Class 8 truck deliveries during that kind of 2009 2010 2011 timeframe.
Now we've gotten into several-year period where we're kind of well above replacement levels of deliveries.
Does that suggest that four to six quarters becomes something different and you get into – maybe this is a more pronounced downturn or – you see what I'm saying? It's a much different environment than what we are kind of used to.
Obviously nobody has a crystal ball here but I think if you look at even the rates that Class 8 production the rates we saw in 2011 2012 and 2013 they're still relatively stable and if you compare them to what we had historically done in the early 2000s it is not at those – the peak levels that caused the chaos which were sales that we had in 1995 and in 1999 and in 2006 those levels have not been achieved in this cycle.
So I don't see that as being dramatically different than what we've seen in the past.
I would tell you also remember we hold vehicles seven years.
So we're still selling vehicles from 2009 in this year and we're still at a point where there's not a lot of big production years coming into our used truck environment.
So I think that will bode well through this downturn and as we get out of it then we will probably have some additional units coming in and we'll be in a good position to sell them.
Okay.
And then secondly I just want to back follow up on the 3 500 units of lease growth that you're forecasting.
I recognize it's a long sales process.
You say fourth quarter was a good quarter from a sales perspective.
As we think about trying to model this in are we talking two thirds of these units should be layered in into the first half and then begin to lighten it up in the back half or should it be more ratable per quarter than that? I heard you say that probably a little lighter in the second half but just maybe magnitude can you give us a little color on that? Yeah I would say the first half of the year you just did year-over-year comps.
The first half of the year you should continue to see in that 5 000 units to 6 000 units range as you do in first quarter to first quarter second quarter to second quarter.
And then it really dropped.
It really slows down in the second half more to the what we're talking about ending right around that 3 000 units to 4 000 units range.
Okay.
All right.
That makes sense.
All right.
Thanks for your time today.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Our next question is from Todd Fowler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Good morning and thanks for all the detail.
Robert just on the expected decline in the used truck pricing.
I mean if you did see that 20% drop from peak to trough as you have in your guidance where would that put the residuals for 2016? Would those still be favorable relative to the residuals you'd be rolling off and really what I'm trying to get at as I think about that depreciation benefit that you've got penciled in for this year how does that look going forward if we see the softness in the used truck market play out the way you're expecting it to? Yeah.
I think we have to say as we considered the depreciation policy we did look at that also.
And if we had a type of kind of bleak environment as we've painted here you would be in a situation in probably 2017 where things would be flat right? Right.
In terms of depreciation.
So there wouldn't be a depreciation policy movement one way or the other.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That helps.
And this is maybe a little bit along the lines of what John was just asking but do you have a sense of what the increase in used truck pricing was this cycle maybe relative to last cycle? And when we look at equipment gains as a percent of your overall earnings it does feel like it's been elevated maybe to where it's been in the past and it feels like there has been a bit of a bubble on the used truck side.
So was the increase in used truck pricing this go around consistent with where it was the last cycle so that the fall would be consistent? Or is it kind of difficult to maybe look at it on an apples-to-apples basis? Well remember look the price of used trucks has gone up quite a bit because of the new technology and all those things.
Remember what we're baking in here is a percentage drop.
So it's a percent.
It's 20% on a bigger number versus the drops that we saw in prior periods.
So I guess the answer to your question is yes used truck pricing has gone up materially over the last cycle generally because of new technology.
And we are assuming in our forecast a 20% drop off of that higher number.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But I guess asking it the same way I mean was the percent increase was that similar or it means that you're trying to adjust for the absolute price of the vehicle? Right.
No.
The percentage increase would have been higher from over the last several years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
I think it basically boils down to – in today's environment whether you're going to buy a new truck or a used truck it costs a lot more than it did 10 years ago.
New trucks just cost meaningfully more because of all the EPA mandated changes.
So I think yes we've adjusted to a higher cost environment in both the new and used truck sales.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah no.
We understand.
I mean there's a lot of moving parts and it seems that the guidance is trying to take into consideration the best factors.
Just trying to get some sensitivity around if things play out better or worse kind of what that could mean.
So I appreciate the time this morning.
Okay.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question...
Hang on one second.
Before we get the next caller I think Art's got the answer to the previous question.
Yeah.
Let me follow up on Jeff's question from earlier relative to our inventory held for sale about 40% are trucks 50% are tractors and 10% are trailers.
Our next question is from Casey Deak with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Thank you.
I just had a question if we could go back to the 3 500 lease fleet growth.
What are you guys forecasting as far as early termination as we go through the year? Do you anticipate that that is going to ramp up as you've seen some rental weakness here maybe foreshadowing that as we go through the year? No.
We have not forecast a meaningful increase in early terminations.
Again we're trying to paint as realistic a picture as we can and at the same time also erring on the side of caution.
But as it relates to early terminations no we have not built in any meaningful increase there.
Okay.
So you just assume that it kind of stays around the levels where we've been trending the past year? Right.
Okay.
All right.
I'll leave it at that.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Due to time constraints we'd like to turn the call over back to Mr.
Robert Sanchez.
Mr.
Sanchez you may proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
Well we're just past the top of the hour so I appreciate you all being on the call.
Good questions.
I look forward to seeing you as we get out and visit at some of the conferences and get out to some road shows.
Take care.
And that ends today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.