Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the second quarter and first half as well as our revised outlook for the full year.
We'll focus our discussion on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects the underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
With me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by Federal Securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
and now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
Reynolds American delivered higher earnings in the second quarter as its operating companies key brands made additional gains despite the challenging economic and competitive environments.
Both of our reportable business segments continue to execute their business strategies effectively.
With R.J.
Reynolds growth brands increasing their combined market share and American Snuff reporting excellent growth in volume share and operating margin.
At Santa Fe I'm pleased to say second quarter results were strong.
Once again the company generated growth in volume share and earnings.
As we reported today RAI's first half results allowed us to tighten our earnings projections for the full year.
RAI and its operating companies continue to demonstrate strength and resilience despite significant competitive activity in the second quarter and the ongoing weak economy.
As a result we remain on track to deliver 2011 adjusted EPS growth in the mid- to high-single digits.
This range excludes the charge for the Scott smoking cessation lawsuit in Louisiana as well as implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items recognized in the first half of the year.
Over the long term our strategy is straightforward and bold.
RAI and its operating companies are focused on leading transformation of the tobacco industry while continuing to deliver outstanding results for our shareholders.
We continue to drive innovation across our businesses with a commitment to redefining enjoyment for adult tobacco consumer.
Now I'll provide additional details on our operating companies.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter adjusted operating income was down slightly in both the second quarter and for the first half.
Gains in the company's growth brands were offset by cigarette volume declines in its support and non-support brands.
The cigarette category continues to demonstrate good pricing power as evidenced by the price increase that R.J.
Reynolds took early this month.
I would also note that R.J.
Reynolds remained focused on achieving the right balance between profitability and market share growth.
Competitive promotional activity increased significantly with the timing of promotional cycles in April and May while R.J.
Reynolds had relatively normal promotional levels in the quarter.
The company's total second quarter cigarette market share was down half a percentage point at 27.4%.
However if we exclude the private label brands that have been delisted as part of the company's portfolio simplification efforts it's total cigarette market share was in line with the prior year quarter at 27.3%.
R.J.
Reynolds' growth brands Camel and Pall Mall continued to perform well in the second quarter.
Their combined market share increased 1.5 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 16.3%.
And these 2 brands accounted for almost 60% of the company's total cigarette volume in the quarter.
Camel's second quarter cigarette market share was steady at 7.8% which is good performance especially for premium priced brand in this challenging environment.
R.J.
Reynolds continue to focus on building brand equity for Camel.
The brand's most recent promotion the Hump Day Sweepstakes campaign started in March.
And the response from adult tobacco consumers to this web-based initiative have been nothing short of fantastic.
Indeed this is the company's most successful promotion in recent years with more than 1 million visits to the brand's websites.
A key driver behind Camel's performance is its menthol styles which use R.J.
Reynolds' innovative capsule technology.
Camel share of the growing menthol market increased by 0.3 of a percentage point in the second quarter and now stands at 2.1%.
R.J.
Reynolds will continue to build momentum with next week's national expansion Camel Crush Bold.
This one additional SKU also uses the capsule technology and offers a richer more full-bodied tobacco taste.
I would also point out that this is R.J.
Reynolds' first new national cigarette line extension since Camel Crush went national 3 years ago.
The company expects this new style to drive additional growth and further broaden the appeal of the Camel brand.
Now moving to Camel's modern smoke-free tobacco products.
Camel SNUS again performed well in the second quarter.
Its interest continues to grow in this convenient smoke-free option for adult tobacco consumers.
As we mentioned last quarter R.J.
Reynolds introduced 2 new Camel SNUS styles in lead market SNUS mint and Frost Large.
Although they've been in the markets for only one quarter they're showing encouraging results.
These 2 styles offer adult tobacco consumers more options to try and ultimately switch to this innovative product.
In addition the company launched the Camel SNUS Pleasure Switch Challenge promotion which is also increasing the brand's awareness and trial.
On Camel's line of dissolvable tobacco products these products Orbs Sticks and Strips were refined and improved and introduced in 2 new lead markets in March.
The products are attracting good consumer interest and the company continues to gain valuable insights about this new category.
Now turning to R.J.
Reynolds second growth brand.
Pall Mall reported another excellent quarter delivering double-digit volume growth and increasing its market share by 1.5 percentage points.
The brand achieved an 8.5% share of market for the quarter.
This high-quality longer-lasting cigarette has proven to be a very popular choice for adult smokers taking value especially in this weak economy.
This distinctive blend of quality and value offers a strong foundation for Pall Mall's long-term success.
So in summary R.J.
Reynolds demonstrated strength and resilience in the face of some strong headwinds in the quarter and is well positioned for growth in the remainder of the year.
Now turning to American Snuff.
I'm pleased with the company's solid underlying performance in the quarter despite low price line extensions of premium brands and significant promotional activities on deep discount brands.
I would note that the sale of Lane in February negatively impacted the earnings comparison for the quarter and Tom will give you more details on that in just a moment.
American Snuff's second quarter moist-snuff consumer offtake share performed extremely well increasing 1.5 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 31.3%.
This performance was driven by the company's flagship brand Grizzly which reported strong gains in both volume and share.
Grizzly's momentum continued in the second quarter with consumer offtake share increasing by 1.9 percentage points from the prior year.
Grizzly now holds a 27.4% share of market.
The brand continues to benefit from the strength and scale of R.J.
Reynolds field trade-marketing organization that now also serves American Snuff.
Addition the new retail moist snuff contracts that were introduced in the second quarter are giving Grizzly more retail space as well as improved brand and pricing communication.
This investment has better positioned the brand for continued long-term growth.
And American Snuff continues to invest in the equity of Grizzly with promotions like its current "giving it to you straight" sweepstakes which engages adult tobacco consumers in an exciting web-based campaign.
And the brand is planning activities to celebrate its 10th anniversary by September.
Grizzly's post sales continued to be a key factor in the brand's strong performance.
The growing pouch segment accounts for more than 9% of the moist-snuff category.
Grizzly has also seen rapid growth in its pouch styles since their introduction just 3 years ago.
I'm proud to say that Grizzly Wintergreen Pouches are the best-selling pouch styles in the market.
In summary both American Snuff and R.J.
Reynolds continued to successfully leverage their sound business strategies and grow their key brands while navigating through a challenging environment.
Now Tom will provide some additional financial details.
Tom? Thank you Dan.
Good morning everyone.
During my discussion I'll focus primarily on adjusted results to provide perspective on our underlying business performance.
Reconciliations of adjusted-to-reported results are in our press release which is on our website.
RAI have a solid quarter posting adjusted earnings per share of $0.67 up 1.5%.
Higher pricing and moist-snuff volume gains more than offset cigarette volume declines.
These adjusted results reflect the impact of the Lane sale and exclude a charge of $0.15 per share related to the Scott lawsuit.
On a reported basis RAI second quarter earnings per share was $0.52 down 10.3% from the prior year quarter.
For the first half of 2011 adjusted earnings per share was $1.26 up 4.1% from the prior year period.
This adjusted results exclude the second quarter charges I just mentioned as well as first quarter tax items.
In addition there were prior year charges for plant closings and the single sales force implementation.
RAI's second quarter adjusted operating margin was 30.1% in line with the prior year quarter.
First half adjusted operating margin was 29.9% up 0.5% from the prior year period.
Now turning to R.J.
Reynolds performance.
The company's second quarter adjusted operating income was $562 million down $6 million from the prior year quarter.
Higher cigarette pricing productivity improvements and growth-brand gains were offset by the decline in support and nonsupport cigarette volume.
These adjusted results exclude $139 million for the Scott lawsuit as well as $3 million in implementation costs related to plant closing.
For the first half of 2011 R.J.
Reynolds' adjusted operating income was $1.03 billion down 0.5% from the prior year period.
This first half adjusted results also exclude the charges I just mentioned.
R.J.
Reynolds second quarter adjusted operating margin declined 0.6 of a percentage point to 28.7%.
And that brought the first half adjusted operating margin to 28.3% in line with the prior year period.
I would note the second quarter margin was negatively impacted by an increase in R.J.
Reynolds' contract manufacturing for the BAT Japan.
Disruptions from the natural disaster there in March drove higher demand for BAT products sourced by R.J.
Reynolds.
Excluding that impact second quarter margin was in line with the prior year period.
Turning to cigarette shipment volume.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 4.4% from the prior-year quarter.
Volumes were negatively impacted by the timing of competitive promotional activity in the quarter.
If you exclude the company's delisted private label brands volume was down 3.6% while the industry's second quarter volume declined 1.3%.
However I would note that industry's cigarette inventories as wholesale increased significantly during the quarter.
I would remind you that R.J.
Reynolds has a policy to minimize wholesale inventory fluctuations.
Now turning to American Snuff's second quarter results.
The company's operating income was $81 million down 4.7% from the adjusted prior-year quarter.
Here I would note the prior-year quarter did include about $10 million from the Lane business which was sold in February this year.
American Snuff also made investments in the implementation of new retail moist-snuff contracts.
For the first half of 2011 the company's adjusted operating income was $168 million down $1 million from the prior year period which included a full 6 months of earnings from Lane.
First half adjusted results exclude $2 million in implementation costs.
American Snuff's second quarter operating margin increased by 5.5 percentage points from the adjusted prior year quarter to 52.4%.
I would note the margin did benefit from the timing of promotional spending in the prior year related to the introduction of embossed metal lids on Grizzly.
That brought first half adjusted operating margin to 52.3% up 3.1 percentage points.
Turning to moist-snuff volume.
American Snuff increased moist-snuff shipment volume by 3.6% in the second quarter bringing the first half shipment volume gain to 8.1%.
Underlying industry volume growth has remained at about 6% this year.
Grizzly's second quarter shipment volume also increased despite strong competitive activity rising 4.7% from the prior year quarter.
All in all the brand's first half shipments were up 10.4%.
Kodiak the American Snuff's premium priced brand delivers stable volume performance in the quarter.
Now I'd like to turn to RAI's balance sheet.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.3 billion and this was after making the $1.96 billion MSA payment in April.
The company also continued to strengthen its balance sheet with a debt repayment of $400 million in June.
We remain committed to delivering value to our shareholders with our targeted dividend payout ratio of 80%.
And we remain focused on evaluating opportunities to return additional value to shareholder.
Based on RAI first half performance and a positive momentum we expect over the rest of the year we've raised the bottom end of our adjusted 2011 earnings per share guidance to a range of $2.62 to $2.70.
This excludes the Scott lawsuit charge and the implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items.
Also excluded from this estimate is any potential impact from the Engle progeny cases.
We are currently reviewing the financial implications at this week's decision by the Florida Supreme Court.
Thank you and now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator? Would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Vivien Azer from Citigroup.
My first question has to do with the outlook for accelerating growth in the back half of the year while I can perfectly appreciate the pressure the competitive activity you had on your operating profits this quarter is there anything that you saw through the course of 2Q that gave you confidence that either a competitive activity is backing off little bit or if cost savings are coming in that can help us get comfortable with that acceleration in the back of the year? Vivien thank you for your question.
I think the way that I would kind of describe the dynamics this quarter is coming into the quarter.
I think there was heavy competitive pressure certainly in the months of April and May.
And towards the back end of the quarter I think it sort of returned to normalized levels.
So the way I would describe the competitive environment is there was some significant sort of competitive fighting of the promotions during the quarter.
That obviously gives me significant confidence going forward given how we as a company with our brand portfolio actually withstood some of the competitive pressure and very confident in the underlying dynamics of our brands especially given some of the demographic changes we continue to see in the business on those brands.
That's very helpful.
My second question has to do with litigation and specifically the Scott case.
One of your key competitors reported earlier this week and they actually included that charge.
In earnings I was hoping you could just give a little color on your discussion to exclude.
Yes I think obviously related to the Scott case we were denied the Supreme Court certification.
The judgment on our side was $139 million.
I just as a perspective and why our number's quite high on that side is we carry the litigation and liability both for Brahna Wames [ph] and for R.J.
Reynolds tobacco.
Of course we were disappointed frankly we believe it was a wrong judgment.
But I think most important here is that it's not precedent setting and really the issue that's at stake there was specific to the state of Louisiana.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I had 2 questions for you if I could.
I want to understand within the Camel performance you indicated that there was about 30 basis points benefit to your share from menthol.
With Camel SNUS and I guess the dissolvable products as well were those incremental to your Camel share this quarter was there a comparison factor with those for not helping your overall Camel share? No we don't actually include the Camel SNUS of volume within that number.
That market share is specific to Camel cigarette.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Good.
I just want to make sure of that.
And the second question is in relation to your smokeless category -- in relation to the smokeless category performance rather than your own your own is quite strong.
But indicated the category was flattish or so in the quarter I want to understand if that's more of a timing factor if you think there's any other issues there if you will within the smokeless category that resulted in the weakness -- the slowdown this quarter? No I think the way I would kind of describe the quarterly dynamics is this way if we take a look at it year-on-year as a category we're actually believe it was up by just over 6% year-on-year.
Now of course if you look at our performance the first quarter was very strong from a volume growth point of view and the second quarter sort of more normalized.
But even when we look at the year-to-date numbers from an industry point of view there's still the official a sort of volume shipments coming in at 9% up year-on-year at first half to first half.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then the final question I have for you this is in relation to cigarette inventories.
And are you able to quantify what you think will sort of be taken out of inventories in the third quarter based on the build in the second quarter.
I know you try to minimize those but I'm sure there was some incremental inventory for you? Let me kind of maybe explain some of the inventory dynamics and I'll provide a little bit of a perspective on what's going on.
I think first of all it's worth kind of noting why wholesalers actually build inventory.
There was during the quarter in the back end of the quarter particularly there was price increase speculation on behalf of the wholesalers.
And in addition to that some of the wholesalers they needed extra inventory to cover the 4th of July holiday.
Of course the 4th of July happens every year so you would expect that part of it's within the numbers.
And we as a company have an ongoing policy to really limit the price speculation and we do that by basically placing wholesalers on allocation and just making sure that we minimize any fluctuations in the supply chain.
And the reason we do that is because it obviously has an adverse impact on our operations and on the entire supply chain so to keep everything as efficient as possible.
So from an impact point of view I think it's fair to say that the industry -- sort of inventory that was built as wholesale we were underrepresented within that.
And we did our best to limit inventory build to only what was required for the 4th of July holiday.
Now maybe just to underscore that point if we look at our business to date now in July I would say that we've seen a normal levels of shipment post the 4th of July holiday.
And I think one other factor is quite important when we think about the inventory side of things.
When that is actually shipped you get full list price for the volume that's actually shipped.
But the value of the promotional dollars attached to that volume they only sort of hit the company when it's actually shipped from wholesale to retail.
So really building inventories is at full margin.
Chris this is Tom.
Just to dimensionalize this.
I think I mentioned that the end of the first quarter that we had about 300 million Sticks that were actually de-loaded by the wholesale trade.
And as Dan said the 4th of July we're up probably about 200 million which actually if you dimensionalized it it's about a little bit less than a day's worth of our shipments.
So that's just kind of put some context around that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And the 200 million Sticks of this sequentially from the end of the first quarter is that correct? No that would be in above our normal inventory level.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Tom can you quantify the impact of the BAT contract manufacturing in the quarter both sales and profit? I'm not going to give you specific dollars but the margins that we received on that were actually lower than the margins that we have for the cigarettes that we sell domestically.
What is compressing the margins is that we airfreighted a significant amount of cigarettes to Japan on BAT's behalf.
We're naturally reimbursed for that but that number with those in sales and cost of sales and so that actually kind of depressed the margins.
In order of magnitude it was probably in the $30 million range.
$30 million to your -- a hit to your cost? Okay.
But I guess that would've also added to your sales right? Just in terms of...
Yes it would.
Yes it would.
Okay.
Is there anyway to quantify how much it added to your sales? I'm just trying to understand how pricing per unit behaved in Q2 for your underlying cigarette business.
And if I look at your net revenue it looks like that's including the contract manufacturing sales while the volume number doesn't so it just seems like I'm comparing apples to oranges here.
If you look at the financial statements that are part of the press release Judy there's a line item in there that talks about related party sales that's $139 million I believe.
And that's the sales to BAT and with $108 million in the year-ago quarter.
Okay.
All right.
I'll look at that.
And then just in terms of Grizzly Dan it seems like you've really seen a much stronger growth in the last couple of quarters.
You've talked about the sales organization.
Can you go into a little bit more just in terms of exactly what kind of traction you're seeing and the sustainability of Grizzly's performance? I think we really see Grizzly continuing to go from strength to strength.
If we take a look at the year-on-year change in market share it's up for the quarter 1.9 market share points.
And I do believe a significant part of that is due to the field force and really the servicing of its trade marketing efforts through our charity.
And when I look at that brand I think 2 things happening.
It's really what the trade marketing effort now is doing.
It's really fully exploiting what already were some of the inherent strengths of the brand.
We've talked many times in the past about the growing equity that we continue to see on the brand.
And then fundamentally it's a great product with some great packaging now with the metal-lid upgrade at a very reasonable popular price.
and I think it's just -- it's hitting on all cylinders as we speak.
and I think there's still more to come in terms of that growth particularly around some of the field force efforts.
And the way I would describe that is of course we launched a new retail contract at retail.
And we have many more feet on the street now servicing the brand.
But getting those new retail contracts and one thing is actually signing the contract the second part of that is actually implementing and executing.
And from that we continue to see ongoing benefit.
Okay.
And then just on the FDA menthol update do you have a better view in terms of the timeline of what we're looking for now from the FDA perspective? I guess they have -- they started the external peer review in July.
3.5 months after they're supposed to come back with some conclusion and issue a preliminary scientific assessment.
Is that basically the initial proposal that we will get the 60-day public comment period and then you'll get the final proposals sometime thereafter.
Is that how the timeline you see it playing out as it relates to the FDA menthol? Two things.
Just one maybe as perspective for some of the other people on the call is that the FDA has basically undertaken exercise now to do what is called a peer review of the science around menthol in cigarettes.
They are under no obligation at this stage and there's no statutory deadlines or anything like that for this process or for final decision making.
So really I can't give you a better perspective at this stage.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi from UBS.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Tom I hate to bother you again with this question but just thoughts on -- your balance sheet obviously looks healthy.
You talked about 1 and 2 add value just curious on your perspective thoughts on a buyback and then I just have 2 other questions.
Okay.
Well I mean I'm going to reiterate a bit what I said back in April and that is that we continue to have some heavy capital spending probably you'll see.
When we filed our Q we spent about all over $90 million in the first half.
We're going to spend a little over $200 million for the year and then a bit on capital projects principally the projects at American Snuff for the leased processing facility and the new plant in Memphis.
We also have in our plans as we've disclosed about $300 million pension plan contribution that we'll make in the back half of the year for some number of order of magnitude close to the $300 million.
And then we've unfortunately have the Scott case that $139 million that Dan has talked about.
And so we do have some requirement on our capital for -- within the near term.
And we've also just paid down -- we've paid down debt but that was actually in the balance of $400 million.
Now to your point that does put us right at the bottom end.
It's actually slightly below our range of debt to EBITDA that we'd like to operate in which is 1.5 to 2.5.
But you also need to kind of kick in there is pension deficit which is roughly $0.5 billion.
So we're really looking at we're kind of 1 7.
And we're mindful of that.
We understand that we have some abilities to borrow and that the rates are favorable.
And we discussed all these things with our Board of Directors.
And we also discussed with them ways to increase money that we can get back to shareholders including share repurchases.
And that's about what I can tell you and when -- and I'll let you know what they decide when they reach a decision.
And then quickly maybe Dan if you can talk about the marvel of leadership price program obviously haven't been rolled out in April how that has affected your business.
I mean to some degree is there some understanding that most of the other major manufacturer with contracts would actually benefit as well as the fair and equitable clause would lead the retailers to cut prices on some of your brands as well.
So just any thoughts around the MLP program.
And then the last question is on the Grizzly new Grizzly contract can you provide some context on exactly kind of the amount of money you may be investing and kind of what's the requirements are at retail That will be very helpful.
Sure Nik.
Let me take those questions just in terms.
First of all on the MLP this is a latest iteration of the trade program and we have seen many trade programs over the years they kind of come and go.
And most trade programs when they're launched and I think the MLP is no different to that.
You get a certain level of people retailers basically signing up form.
And then over time what you see is more and more people kind of joining the program.
And that's very normal kind of trade behavior over time and this go around has been no different.
Now what all trade programs tried to do is they try to split the world between retailers that are on the program and retailers that aren't.
And so fundamentally I don't think there is a significant change in the aggregate kind of dynamics out of retail.
And when I kind of look at the second quarter specifically what maybe had a more significant impact on our business was actually the absolute number of dollars spent back in the marketplace not so much where and what retailers against what the trade program.
And just to reiterate some of the comments I made earlier that spent competitive spent increased in the early part of the quarter specifically in the months of April and May and then came down to more normalized levels in the month of June.
So that's really it on the cigarettes side.
I think on the moist-snuff side the way I would characterize our trade program it's a fairly standard fairly normal kind of trade program.
All we're really doing is incentivizing retailers to give Grizzly it's fair share of presence at retail.
And by presence I really mean the right number of facings at retail given the size of the brand and the right level of signage and also price communication.
So I think really what we're incentivizing is basically a catch-up were historically the American Snuff company was a very much fewer people out in trade marketing.
It wasn't able to command the presence of the brand Grizzly specifically deserved.
And so we're really just kind of playing catch-up as we speak and I think doing that quite affectively which is reflecting in a very positive momentum on the brand.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I just had a quick question on your Santa Fe brand.
It was quite strong in the quarter.
Could you just give us a little bit more color on that brand maybe what share is that right now? Maybe some finishes you have with the brand internationally? Sure Bonnie.
I think first of all this obviously is not a reportable segment for us.
But certainly I'm very happy with the performance of that company in the quarter and frankly over the last years that the brand and the company keeps going from strength to strength.
And it's really posting sort of double digit volume share and operating income growth.
And I think given the current economic environment out there the way that this is super premium brand has been able to buck the trend is remarkable and very noteworthy.
On the international side I think it continues to progress nicely but it is a very very small part of the business.
But it has a small but not insignificant in growing share in some key markets like Germany Switzerland and Japan.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then I just wanted to clarify you mentioned that you're taking Camel Crush Bold national I think in this quarter in the third quarter? Correct.
LLC</strong> Was that already shipped? Or what's the timing of rolling that out nationally? I believe most of the shipments actually happened this quarter.
It's rolling out next week.
And obviously we're quite confident.
If you take a look at Camel the menthol portfolio within the Camel brand actually achieved 2.1 market share points in the quarter and believe this will help further accelerate growth on the menthol styles of Camel.
Our next question comes from Matt Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Just 2 questions.
First could you provide any additional context around Pall Mall's retail share and given the heightened level of competitive activity during the quarter I know you've highlighted a more normal levels of promotion on your brands but I'm assuming you responded to some extent.
Why do you think the brand wasn't able to show some degree of sequential growth for the first quarter in quite a while? And does this reflect any further shift in your relative level of promotional support between the 2 growth brands? No here's kind of how I would describe the quarter for Pall Mall is you're right that it was relatively stable sequentially.
It's still up 1.5 share points when we look at it year-over-year.
And on the year-to-date numbers so first half to first half was actually up 1.7 share points.
I think it's fair to say that it was impact for at least its growth was slowed by some of the competitive activities and the timing of some of those promotional cycles from our competitors in the early part of the quarter.
I think Pall Mall is fundamentally a very strong proposition in the marketplace especially in today's economic environment.
We continue to see the positive retention numbers.
And I've quoted some of these numbers in the past the 50% sort of a trial to conversion which is phenomenal and really second to none in the marketplace.
So very happy with that.
and I think what's really impacted the brand in the quarter some of the competitive promotional cycling going through the marketplace.
And quite confident that Pall Mall can continue to grow into the future.
And can you give us any sense of where its retails shares during the month of June with respect to the timing of the competitive promotions? No Matt.
Actually we don't release a monthly market share numbers and just rely on the quarterly figures which I've quoted to you.
Okay understood.
And then one final question.
I just wanted to get your current thoughts on the arbitration of the 2003 disputed MSA payments.
And if you could maybe address just how optimistic you are on the prospects of potentially resolving this through a settlement rather than fully resolving it to the arbitration.
Well the way I would describe it is first of all is very happy that we finally got to the arbitration process got that all started.
And very happy with the actual panels the actual arbitrators that were chosen and they're leading the process.
They appear to have outlined a good process to actually bring this to resolution.
And so in aggregate I'm quite optimistic about the eventual resolution of this and of course it's taking longer than we would like what these things always do.
And so really I think I'm very optimistic that if we need to rely on the arbitration process that that will lead to a good conclusion for us as a company.
Just a point of background that what's really being arbitrated this stage is the only 2003 monies in dispute.
So really no matter how this settles in the future I think either path and I'm quite optimistic.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin from Davenport.
LLC</strong> Given the mess in the quarter can you go through again your confidence in raising the lower end of the guidance? I know you came out of the quarter with a bit of feeling about the competitive environment what gives you the confidence to lift that low end given the Q2 mess? Well I just think we kind of look and obviously we project forward a lot of the expected competitive activities and that's obviously what we market against.
But fundamentally we'll look at the strength of our own business the strengths of our brands and obviously we have insight into some of the plans going forward and that allows us to make a optimistic projection going forward and allowed us to raise the bottom end of our guidance.
LLC</strong> But what happened this quarter going to this quarter you all misread the competitive environment? No here's the way I would kind of describe it is what happens in our category is we see sort of timing of the cycling of competitive activities.
And one of those -- some of those a significant competitive activities just happen to hit in the first -- early part of the quarter.
Of course we're not -- we can't predict and we're not in charge of competitive business but those things happen and we can swing and roll with the punches.
LLC</strong> And then in the release and your comments about the business you talked about ongoing economic weakness has that worsened or changed since you started the year.
Can you give an update on your outlook there? Well I think really if you take a look and we're obviously part of the entire economic environment and one of the ones that we've talked to you about in the past is actually the impact that gas prices might have on cigarettes not so much in terms of total industry volume but certainly it has an impact on the psyche of the consumer.
If they just finished filling up their tank at the pump at significantly increased prices they're in a very price-sensitive shopping moment when they actually go into the store to buy their cigarettes.
And so what we do see is the economic environment having an impact really on the up trading or down trading kind of environment within the category even though the total category of volume remains pretty close to expectation.
Our next question comes from Karen Lamark from Federated Investors.
Question about your support brands.
You might have answered it with Chris' questions whereby you underrepresented at wholesale but with the weakness in those volumes I wonder if you can share any other color on what might have been going on did you reallocate resources was there an execution issue? I mean the way I would kind of describe the performance of our support brand portfolio is really come back to some of the competitive dynamics.
Those our brands that we have some spend on but not significant spend on those brands and when there are significant competitive activities in the marketplace those brands tend to be impacted more and it's really from 2 points of view as a because we don't spend as much -- don't give them as much care and attention as the growth brands of the portfolio.
And secondly in aggregate some of the consumer dynamics and demographics on the brand they tend to have older and therefore slightly more price-sensitive smokers.
Okay.
And then a separate question just to confirm so you're updated guidance does not include any assumption of buybacks.
Is that true? It is correct.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays Capital.
I think you may have answered this question actually with in response to Ann just now.
But can you speak to the industry trend in which sort of the premium to total mix has actually ticked up year-over-year this quarter? I'm sorry could you repeat the question? Sure.
Can you speak to the rationale behind the industry premium to total mix ticking up year-over-year this quarter? It sort of moved to 71.4% up from 70.5%? Can you just talk about the dynamics behind that? Yes.
And the reason I kind of hesitated a little bit when you asked the question I think it all comes down to what your definition of premium actually is within the category.
Of course the way historically it's been done in our category is up by just placing specific brands in either the premium or the value category.
But increasingly what you see in the marketplace is value line extensions to premium brands and when you look at the marketplace of that way in terms of the effect of price actually paid by consumers I think it's fair to say that there's a down trading trend in the category and has been for a couple of years now.
Also can you just speak to your thoughts around industry consolidation given sort of the trend that we're seeing broadly in other sectors as well? Really I don't have any comment to make at this time on any sort of potential speculative M&amp;A in the category.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Christine Farkas from Bank of America.
Tom a question on other margins.
We did see that spike up and just looking at the discussion of the margins I'm not sure if you addressed that.
Can you talk to what specifically drove that segment profit this quarter? Yes.
Some of the profits were attributable to Santa Fe actually probably the lion's share with Santa Fe.
And then we also had a basically a recovery in some monies and it was actually rather minor but that was in there as well.
But it was largely Santa Fe.
Okay that's helpful.
And then other question Dan just on elasticity we've seen pricing put in place now at the beginning of the July period and I realized it's still really early.
But could you comment at all based on what you see with the environment and the macros how you think or if you think elasticity is changing at all? No I think really our analysis of it is that price sensitivity of demand has held remarkably stable really through this economic downturn.
Of course we see an impact in that premium to value mix of the category as a whole.
But I think really it's held remarkably constant throughout this crisis.
Maybe just while I'm on the subject because you mentioned the price increase which obviously we took at the beginning of this month.
But in addition to that I think the excise environment has been significantly more positive than frankly we predicted at the beginning of the year.
And I know I went out beginning of the year and sort of gave this $0.15 to $0.20 kind of estimates and having to regularly sort of revise down my estimate.
And the latest estimate I provide you with is that we're expecting the year average to come in at less than a $0.05 which is a very positive development.
But obviously it's something that impacts the consumer as would a manufacturing price increase.
And so I'm happy to kind of report that improving trend on that side.
Just on the number then less than $0.05 that would be for calendar 2011 rather than the fiscal year start? That's correct.
Okay.
And then of course with slowing taxes that also could mean less opportunity to take pricing should we connect the 2 or this is just maybe even more flexibility than you thought you might have had? I'd say the latter rather than the former.
If there are no further questions I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Moore for any additional remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Morris Moore Head of Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's first quarter results as well as our outlook for the full year.
We'll focus our discussion on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects the underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
With me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statement.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by Federal Securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to be with you today and share with you some of the insights and results at Reynolds American and its operating companies.
As our results show RAI and it's operating companies turned in a good first quarter giving us a solid foundation for growth in the year ahead.
As you can see from the positive results across our companies RAI's initiative to transform tobacco continues to gain momentum.
RAI delivers higher adjusted earnings and margin driven by additional volume and share gains on all our operating companies' key brands as well as higher pricing and further productivity improvements.
Both of our reportable business segments R.J.
Reynolds and American Snuff continue to execute their business strategies extremely well.
And this is reflected by further improvement in their marketplace and financial performance.
And once again performance was strong at Santa Fe with higher volume share and earnings in the first quarter.
Two other highlights I'd like to touch on.
Reynolds American continued to deliver value to our shareholders with a further dividend increase of 8.2% in February bringing it in line with RAI's revised 80% dividend payout target.
I would also note that RAI successfully closed the sale of its Lane Limited subsidiary in February.
This allows RAI's operating companies to focus their energy resources on the primary growth categories within their businesses.
This continued transformation of our operating companies' business and their focus on providing innovative tobacco products to meet changing consumer preferences positions RAI well for long-term success.
As we reported today RAI is reaffirming its guidance and we expect full year adjusted EPS growth in the mid- to high single-digits excluding charges related to plant closings and tax items.
Before I turn to our operating companies' performance I want to briefly address developments on the regulatory front.
After the recent release of the report on menthol by the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee as well as reports from the industry and others the FDA is now considering input from a range of parties in its review of the use of menthol in cigarettes.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to believe that any final decision by the agency should be based on sound science.
And the company will continue to provide information and perspectives on this issue to the agency as it undertakes this process.
We remain committed to complying with FDA requirements as they are established while continuing to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Now I'd like to talk about the highlights of R.J.
Reynolds this first quarter.
Adjusted operating income increased slightly as gains in the companies' growth brands offset cigarette volume declines in its support and nonsupport brands.
R.J.
Reynolds' adjusted operating margin also improved driven by pricing and productivity gain.
R.J.
Reynolds' long-term strategy to reduce complexity and improve efficiency has proven to be very successful.
And the company plans to further refine its cigarette portfolio and eliminate most of its remaining private label brands this year.
You'll remember that the company reduced its SKUs by over 80% through the end of last year to less than 150.
R.J.
Reynolds is also making good progress in improving its cigarette manufacturing efficiencies like consolidating production at its Tobaccoville facility.
The company remains on track to close its Whitaker Park manufacturing facility later this year.
R.J.
Reynolds' total first quarter cigarette market share was stable at 27.9%.
However if we exclude the delisted private label brands the company's total cigarette market share actually increased by a full percentage point.
As I mentioned earlier today R.J.
Reynolds' growth brands Camel and Pall Mall continued to make gains in the first quarter.
Their combined market share increased 2.7 percentage points to 16.3%.
We remain pleased by Camel's performance both in terms of market share and brand demographics.
The brand's first quarter cigarette market share increased by 0.7 tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 7.8%.
And Camel launched a new equity building promotion the Hump Day Sweepstakes campaign at the end of March.
Already the brand is seeing a great response from consumers.
This program is highlighted on Camel's packaging as being used in all major brand marketing materials.
The promotion encourages adult tobacco consumers to seize the Hump Day and break free to explore the unexpected and get rewarded.
This is part of Camel's brand promise to empower individual enjoyment for adult tobacco consumers.
Also enhancing Camel's performance are its menthol styles with innovative capsule technology that offer adult smokers the choice fresh menthol flavor on demand.
In fact Camel's menthol share of market including Camel Crush increased 0.5 percentage point in the first quarter and now stands at 2%.
Moving to modern smoke-free tobacco.
Camel introduced a number of changes in the quarter all aimed at deepening the brand's commitment to offer innovative smoke-free tobacco products for adult consumers to enjoy anytime and anywhere.
For example while Camel SNUS continues to show steady growth R.J.
Reynolds expanded the range of SNUS offerings during the quarter to give even more adult tobacco consumers a reason to try and ultimately switch to Camel SNUS.
In February Camel SNUS introduced Frost Large Pouches and a Mint style in selected lead markets.
These new styles broaden the range of choices for adult tobacco consumers and are generating good interest.
Camel SNUS Frost is the best-selling SNUS style in America and the larger Frost Pouch styles will meet the preferences of a broader range of tobacco users.
Camel SNUS Mint is another good addition to the portfolio with mint being a long-established preference in smokeless tobacco.
With the introduction of an increasing number of competitive SNUS products over the past year the SNUS category is continuing to expand.
R.J.
Reynolds expects this increased interest to further build positive awareness for this category over the long-term.
And Camel SNUS is well positioned to benefit from this growth.
In March Camel's new line of dissolvable tobacco products Orbs Sticks and Strips were introduced in two new lead markets Charlotte and Denver.
These new dissolvable products and their packaging reflect the input that R.J.
Reynolds received from consumers in its first round of lead markets.
The company expects to continue to gain valuable insights from adult tobacco consumers in these new markets.
Now turning to R.J.
Reynolds' other growth brand Pall Mall.
Pall Mall had another outstanding quarter increasing its market share by 2 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 8.5%.
The company remains focused on building the Pall Mall brand while balancing overall share and profitability growth.
In summary R.J.
Reynolds continues its positive momentum in the first quarter which provides a strong foundation for longer-term success.
Turning to American Snuff.
I'm very pleased with the company's results in the first quarter with higher moist-snuff pricing and volume delivering increases in the company's adjusted operating income and margin.
Bear in mind that these results reflect only 2 months of earnings from Lane before that business was sold at the end of February.
Once again American Snuff's performance was led by its flagship brand Grizzly which continues to benefit from last year's packaging upgrade.
Grizzly is also benefiting from the R.J.
Reynolds field trade marketing organization that serves American Snuff.
The company now has more than 2 000 trade marketing professionals representing its products at retail.
Turning to market share.
The company's total moist-snuff consumer offtake share increased 1.3 percentage points in the first quarter to 31.1%.
And this growth was driven by Grizzly which increased share by 1.5 percentage points to 27.1%.
Grizzly's performance during the quarter was further enhanced by its strong position in Pouch sales.
In the first quarter more than 9% of total moist-snuff category sales were in the rapidly growing Pouch segment and Grizzly grew to represent about 25% of that total.
That's great progress considering that the brand introduced its first Pouch product just 3 years ago.
I'm pleased to report that Grizzly now has the #1 overall pouch style in the market.
I must say that despite intense competitive activities Grizzly has had a powerful impact since it was introduced 10 years ago and that's still with only 12 styles.
I'd also like to mention the new retail moist-snuff contracts that American Snuff introduced in February.
These contracts represent an investment in the business and ensures that Grizzly will have its fair share of retail space as well as improved pricing and brand communication.
This investment will better position Grizzly for continued long-term growth.
So it's clear that both American Snuff and R.J.
Reynolds are focused on delivering profitable growth for RAI shareholders.
And I'm extremely pleased with their momentum.
Now Tom will provide some financial details.
Tom? Thank you Dan.
Good morning everyone.
During my discussion I'll focus primarily on adjusted results to provide perspective on our underlying business performance.
Reconciliations of adjusted to reported results are in our press release which is available on our website.
Turning to our financial highlights.
RAI's first quarter adjusted earnings per share increased 5.4% to $0.59.
These adjusted results exclude $0.01 per share related to plant closings and tax items.
On a reported basis RAI's first quarter EPS was $0.60.
That was more than triple the prior year quarter's reported EPS of $0.14 which was impacted by the changes in federal healthcare laws and the Canadian government settlements.
RAI's adjusted operating margin saw strong growth in the first quarter gaining 0.9 of a percentage point to 29.6%.
As a result of this performance I'm pleased to reaffirm adjusted 2011 EPS guidance in the range of $2.60 to $2.70 excluding implementation costs related to plant closings and tax items.
I would note that the Lane sale closed earlier than our original expectations of mid-year which will result in a lower earnings contribution from that business than we have previously estimated.
Turning to R.J.
Reynolds' performance.
R.J.
Reynolds' first quarter adjusted operating income of $471 million increased slightly from the prior year quarter.
The company benefited from higher cigarette pricing and growth brand volume gains while also delivering further productivity improvements.
This adjusted results exclude $8 million in implementation costs related to plant closings.
And R.J.
Reynolds also improved its first quarter adjusted operating margin which increased 0.5 percentage point to 27.8%.
Turning to cigarette shipment volume.
R.J.
Reynolds' first quarter cigarette shipment volume declined 5.2% from the prior year quarter.
However excluding the delisted private label brands volume was down 3%.
This compares well with the industry's first quarter volume decline of 3.4%.
I would also note that R.J.
Reynolds' wholesale inventory levels declined about 300 million units during the quarter while industry inventory remained constant at relatively higher levels.
So that's a brief recap of R.J.
Reynolds' key results.
On American Snuff given the impact on earnings from the sale of Lane American Snuff delivered solid first quarter growth with adjusted operating income increasing 4.2% from the prior year quarter to $87 million.
This was driven by higher pricing and moist-snuff volume growth.
These adjusted results exclude $2 million of implementation costs.
American Snuff's first quarter adjusted operating margin also increased gaining 0.5 percentage point from the prior year quarter to 52.3%.
Turning to moist-snuff volume.
The company's total first quarter shipment volume grew 13.2%.
I would note that this reflects a favorable comparison with the prior year quarter which was impacted by aggressive competitive activity.
Grizzly's first quarter shipment volume saw a significant increase rising 17.1% from the prior year quarter.
So American Snuff continues to build on their strong foundation and is well positioned for growth over the rest of the year.
Turning to our balance sheet.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with cash balances of $3 billion including the $200 million from the Lane sale.
I'll remind you that on April 15 R.J.
Reynolds made its MSA [Master Settlement Agreement] payment of about $2 billion of which $477 million was deposited in the NPM [non-participating manufacturers] disputed funds account.
That brings the total amount in dispute to almost $3 billion for the years 2003 through 2008.
We continue to evaluate opportunities to add value for our shareholders.
With the 8.2% dividend increase in February RAI has raised dividend by nearly 18% over the past year.
Thank you and we'll now turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nik Modi with the UBS.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Tom just on the balance sheet I know I've been pressing you on this for a couple of quarters now.
But just in terms of timing and how you're thinking about leveraging the balance sheet looks like everything is kind of in order the MSA payment has been made.
CapEx at this point you must have visibility on some of the CapEx you need to spend.
So can you just give us some perspective on kind of the use of the balance sheet for the cash balance? Okay.
Yes you're right.
I mean we've obviously got the MSA payments behind us.
I would remind you as I have in the past on these calls that we're building two facilities at American Snuff a lead processing facility as well as a new manufacturing facility in Memphis.
Our capital expenditures this year we expect to be in the range where they were last year.
And that's right around $200 million.
And we spent $44 million of that in the first quarter.
So we still have a little bit of lifting to do there.
We've got some debt coming due in June $400 million and actually that's our floater that's at about 1%.
And so we would likely pay that off in cash so that rather than refinancing that because refinancing will be dilutive to our results.
That having been said we are focused on getting value back to shareholders.
In my remarks I mentioned that we have increased the dividend almost 18% in the past year.
We look at that as a primary vehicle to getting value back.
But we also do discuss share repurchases and we will continue to have those discussions both internally and with our board.
Great.
And then Dan if I could just ask a quick question on underlying cigarette consumption.
It seems like down 3% is kind of where it should be down to 3% to 4%.
Gas prices are much higher.
I'm just curious on your take on kind of what's going on in the marketplace in terms of consumption.
It actually surprisingly is steady given what's going on in terms of inflation for the lower-income consumer.
Is there an income or an employment situation going on here where low-income jobs are starting to come back into the marketplace and that's kind of helping offset it? Any perspective would be really useful.
Yes Nik.
I don't think we've really seen a change in trend really over the last quarters.
Of course a lot of the economic recession unemployment data that and so forth has already been factored into some of the trends.
Of course we'll need to watch and see what happens with the more recent spike in gas prices in terms of what that does to disposable income.
The way I like to look at kind of the total market development there appears to be sort of a level of secular decline in cigarettes specifically.
That number is probably somewhere about 1.8 to 2.
And what that really means is absent any pricing that's what the decline rate would be.
And on top of that I would put the price sensitivity of demand at that historic rate of about 0.35.
And we haven't really seen any change in trend based on short-term economic factors to that model.
And just one final question if I may.
I think the way we calculate the net price it was up 4% or so for the cigarette business.
How much is Pall Mall dragging down that overall number? I don't think to a great degree.
There's a number of different things actually happening and sort of embedded within that number.
When we compare back to the first quarter of last year I would say that from a promotion point of view we were slightly uncompetitive in the marketplace vis--vis sort of normalized quarters.
And I would characterize this last quarter first quarter of this year as being sort of quite normalized level of spend.
So I think when you do that analysis it's partly the base quarter that you're comparing to.
But I'm actually quite happy with the pricing growth that we've had year-on-year.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Dan just on the Camel performance.
Obviously on a year-over-year basis the brand grew market share pretty nicely.
But if I just kind of look at sequentially maybe from fourth quarter it was down a little bit.
And then Camel Crush seems to have kind of plateaued at about 2% share.
So maybe just give us some perspective on how you see Camel performing with a little bit of timing of the promotions that as you get into the latter part of the year you expect stronger share performance from Camel going forward.
I mean I'm very pleased with Camel's performance in the last quarter.
Of course there's normal kind of variability within that depending on the timing of our promotions and of competitive promotions.
I think this last quarter was a fairly normalized kind of quarter in terms of spend rate from ourselves and the competitive environment.
And I'm quite pleased with the performance there.
As you noted it's down very slightly from the quarter before.
But I don't believe that that's anything to worry about.
And I'm very happy with the underlying kind of quality of growth on that brand both from a demographic point of view and in which strategic segments that growth is actually coming from.
And particularly I would point to the capsule technology the use of innovation and premium menthol within that.
As you mentioned that's now a 2% share of market.
And when we look at that performance in premium menthol that's particularly exciting and it's accounting for most of the growth in premium menthol.
Okay.
And then just in terms of Pall Mall just as obviously the brand has experienced a very good growth and the equity of the brand seems to be pretty resilient to your point just how you think about the price position of the brand and whether you can move forward to raising the profitability on the brand going forward.
Is it more economical? Or just do you need to see improvement in terms of the economy to think about maybe getting more profitability on that brand? I mean obviously I think Pall Mall has had a great run more recently.
But I would just remind everyone that Pall Mall was growing already even prior to this downturn over the last couple of years.
And of course it's rate of growth increased significantly more recently.
But I'm very very pleased with the brand.
It is contributing significantly to profitability.
And over the last year and a bit we've been able to actually increase profitability over and above the marketplace.
And we continue to look for opportunities like that to make sure that the growth isn't just a volume and market share growth but it is also growing profitability and contribution to the company.
Okay.
And then Tom in terms of your margins in the quarter you've had pretty good margin improvement on the other segment.
So what drove that margin gains in that other segment? And then on the cigarette side I think the rate of margin gains were a little bit slower in the first quarter versus maybe in the back half of the year.
So I'm wondering if there's any timing in terms of cost savings or what-have-you that affected the rate of margin improvement in the first quarter.
On the first question that you had Judy was what's in the other segment and that was actually driven by pricing.
Okay.
So pricing on Santa Fe and the others? Yes.
Okay.
And then just on the cigarette side? We would expect continued margin improvement as we move through the year driven by productivity.
And as we said before we don't give out productivity numbers we do track those internally.
But it's really embedded in the DNA of the organization.
So we would expect to see continuing improvement.
Is it fairly evenly spread out throughout the year in terms of when it hits the P&amp;L? It varies.
But yes I would say it kind of comes in over the year.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Christine Farkas with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you very much.
Dan and Tom I wanted to start with the inventory question if I could.
You talked about I believe your inventory or your wholesalers lowering inventory in the quarter.
But was it the industry that was still high meaning the broader wholesaler base? Or was it the retail inventories that were still high? Clearly our measurement of this shows that wholesale inventories ended the quarter quite high.
And we have quite a diligent -- and we spent a lot of effort actually trying to stabilize inventories.
We don't believe it's beneficial to our operations and supply chain to have sort of swings in sort of either up or down in the supply chain.
And we actually relative to total industry reduced inventories in the quarter.
And that's what that number that Tom actually quoted was 300 million sticks.
And just to add to that Christine.
That is at wholesale.
Right at wholesale.
Okay.
And then some clarity on the Snuff margin which was up slightly year-over-year I believe you mentioned.
I just want to understand I believe the sale of Lane came out that division and my understanding was that was a lower-margin segment.
Am I wrong? I would have thought the underlying margin would've seen a little bit of a pop post that sale? That actually did contribute to some of the increase and the Lane business was included historically in American Snuff's results.
And that business was sold on the 28th so we have an absence of about one month of Lane in the first quarter of 2011 results.
I see okay.
And any other changes will just be the underlying business or promotions or strategies you're spending on the underlying American Snuff business.
Yes that's correct.
Okay.
And then just back on the clarity with respect to the spend the productivity programs that you've highlighted in the press release.
This isn't anything additional to what you had planned.
There's no dollars associated with respect to an increased cost-savings program.
Is that right? That's correct.
Really it's steady as she goes.
This has become really a way of life and we have a number of different programs inside the company.
Of course some of those actually that we'll issue press releases on when they affect some of our footprint or some of the big structural kind of things.
But we have a multitude of programs and initiatives throughout the company that are ongoing that really impact our operating margin on a go-forward basis.
Tom did you want to add something there? Yes.
Just for instance Christine on April 1 we actually implemented SAP across all the operating companies at Reynolds American.
Reynolds Tobacco had been on SAP and American Snuff had also been on and Santa Fe had not.
And we actually moved all of them to one instance so now we're all operating off the same basically SAP system.
And what that does is it actually creates more economies over time.
There was some investment in that.
But those are the types of things that we're doing.
And frankly that will lower our costs over time it will actually make our people better in Santa Fe and in Memphis and in the Reynolds basically working off the same systems the learnings.
And as we move people among our operating companies their learning curve is much quicker.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just want to ask you first -- I want to make sure I understood as you continue to work on the volume the private label volumes in the nonsupport segment is that having an unusual drag on profitability whether it's fixed-cost leverage or just a piece of raw profits from that product? No Chris really this part of the business was very low-margin business.
I think embedded within our numbers this last quarter there was still about a 1/10 of a market share left.
But of course that number was much higher a year ago.
And hence when we stripped this out of our business we look at our total market share and we actually see nice growth in fact to the tune of 1 share point growth x private label.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
And then my other question for you was on the -- I kind of look at revenue and profit per tin within your Smokeless division.
And it was down a little bit year-over-year.
I want to make sure that I understand it.
Is it the Kodiak weakness in the quarter that drove a lot of that? I know Lane not being there for a month I have that adjusted in there.
Would that be the main factor to look at if you're looking at on a per-tin basis? I think you're right.
Those are the main factors principally Lane.
There's obviously a little bit in terms of mix where you've got Grizzly growing with Kodiak down just a hair.
But you're on the right track.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay then my last question for you is obviously Altria isn't pretty aggressive with us in the smokeless category getting some incremental space.
I just want to understand what that means for you.
And are you seeing an increase in your space in that category? Are you doing anything on your own as well to increase your presence if you will in the smokeless tobacco business? Yes we are.
And this is really a luxury that was afforded by the combination of the field forces where really R.J.
Reynolds' field force now is managing on behalf of American Snuff their efforts at retail.
And we launched a new retail contract during the last quarter.
And that actually has had a very high level of acceptance at retail.
And that's just allowing us to pick up for Grizzly and the other American Snuff brands.
It's fair share of retail display.
We're now able to communicate more effectively at retail and get price communication up and so forth.
And that's actually helping the brand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Dan when do you think you reached the appropriate level of promotional spending in the cigarette category? Because it looks like this is the second consecutive quarter in which your net price mix trailed that of the industry overall.
David let me answer that question really in 2 ways.
Appropriate is a real hard word to define because it's all relative to competition.
And I think relative to competition I think things were pretty much in balance in the first quarter.
But I think when we start looking at those kind of revenue and pricing kind of metrics on a year-over-year basis I think there are other things at play.
I think partly it was some of the inventory dynamics which we have talked about but more specifically it's how competitive were we in the same quarter last year vis--vis this year.
And when we look at that quarter last year I think we were slightly light or slightly spending a little bit less than we might have wanted to because it's a balance that we're trying to find between volume market share and profitability.
And I would characterize this last quarter as being fairly normative.
Okay.
And then I wanted to ask a question on the American Snuff business.
Adjusting for Lane year-on-year you have 13% growth in volume in moist smokeless tobacco and you had a $0.10 price increase year-on-year.
And I think normalized profits were only up about 8%.
And although you alluded earlier to the mix shift that's been going on to some extent for a long time.
So I'm just curious is there something else that's going on that didn't result in faster profit growth? Yes I think there's probably a couple of other small factors within that.
Obviously we launched the new contract in the quarter and that had obviously some payments associated with it.
We would consider that an investment because in terms of what we actually get to help grow the brand into the future I think that's a very positive dynamic and a good investment for us to make.
And that may have had an additional impact in the quarter.
Is that a one-off cost on adoption Dan? Or is that sort of a new sort of structural expense going forward? I think it's a -- well I guess in your words more like a structural kind of cost going forward.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Karen Lamark with Federated Investors.
Going back to Lane can you share an estimate of how much income you've foregone effectively with the deal closing earlier than your mid-year estimate? In the first quarter it's probably about $3.5 million.
And we said before that the Lane business last year contributed about $0.04 to earnings.
To the full year earnings? Yes.
Okay.
And then separately Camel Crush.
I think you suggested you were very pleased with the demographics of the user.
And I wonder if you can share some color on maybe the age or the socioeconomic profile of the typical users if there is such a thing.
Yes I mean really the capsule technology has really been deployed into the market in 2 forms.
1 is a Camel Crush format that you mentioned which really allows a non-menthol cigarette to be activated and to have menthol in it as well.
And then there's the Camel Menthol styles which is really  theyre regular menthol cigarettes.
And when activated the capsule it allows the consumer to have more menthol.
And the demographics behind that being so positive we measure this in terms of what we call adult smoker under 30.
And its market share amongst that demographic has grown very significantly and really contributed to the overall brand health indicators of the total Camel brand being up very significantly year-on-year.
And you prefer not to quantify significantly? I think not at this stage.
I mean this number obviously there's some variability in it quarter-to-quarter.
And we do certainly at Investor Day and so forth we come out with some of the adult smoker under 30 share.
But I think order of magnitude it's actually doubled over the year.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer with Citigroup.
I was just wondering in terms of Grizzly's price gap in the first quarter I believe you guys commented last quarter in the second half that this gap has continued to narrow.
Was that the case in the first quarter as well? Yes.
I think there's obviously been a lot of competitive activity in the segment.
We continue to see more new brand launches sort of line extensions of historically premium brands.
And they're launching more line extensions and more promotion to basically close that price gap.
I think our strategy here is really paying dividends in terms of focusing on the equity of Grizzly i.e.
allowing it to sustain growth but also offset some of the competitive onslaughts that's currently obviously all pointed at Grizzly and very pleased to be able to report some of the results that we have just talked about given that competitive environment.
Absolutely it makes sense to me.
In terms of the lawsuit that you and Lorillard jointly filed against the FDA are there any updates there? Has the FDA responded? And if so what are the next steps? No.
We really -- no new news on that front and nothing new at this stage.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you very much.
I'm not showing any other questions in the queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Morris Moore for closing comments.
Thank you again for joining us this morning.
A replay of the call is available on our website.
And if you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thanks for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the third quarter and 9 months as well as our revised outlook for the full year.
We'll focus our discussion on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects the underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by Federal Securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
Let me begin our discussions with several very positive developments.
Earlier today Reynolds American announced that its Board of Directors had approved a 5.7% increase in its dividend.
Tom will provide more details in just a moment but I'm very pleased with the Board's vote of confidence and continued support not only for our near-term direction but also for our long-term strategy.
We also like to report that for the fourth consecutive year RAI has received independent recognition for its ongoing sustainability and responsibility initiatives.
The company was again awarded membership in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and is the only U.S.
tobacco company in the index.
And we are certainly proud of that recognition.
So some very good news to start off our call today.
Turning to RAI's outlook.
Based on our results through the third quarter we are tightening our earnings outlook for the full year.
We now expect adjusted EPS of $2.63 to $2.68.
I would note that our guidance excludes the impact of the individual Engle progeny cases and the Scott lawsuit as well as implementation and integration costs and tax items which Tom will discuss in more detail.
Now I'll give you my perspective on the company's results in the third quarter and year-to-date.
Overall I'm very pleased with RAI's solid third quarter performance.
I believe our performance reflects both the fundamental strength and positive momentum of our business strategy.
These results are particularly noteworthy because they come in the face of a challenging economic and competitive environment.
Our third quarter results underscore our ability to manage near-term challenges while continuing to transform our business for the long term in an evolving industry.
So let's look at how our operating companies did in more detail.
R.J.
Reynolds performed very well this quarter despite a difficult operating environment.
The company delivered higher adjusted operating income and excellent improvement in their adjusted operating margin in both the third quarter and the first 9 months of this year.
Driving these results were gains on the company's 2 growth brands Camel and Pall Mall along with continued pricing and productivity improvements.
Before I get into more detail on our performance let's step back and look at industry cigarette volumes.
Total cigarette industry shipment volume declined 6.4% in the third quarter and R.J.
Reynolds' volume excluding the company's de-emphasized private label brands was in line with the industry.
As many of you know industry shipment volumes have fluctuated significantly across the quarters this year due to large swings in the wholesale inventory levels.
When we look at the category on a year-to-date basis we get a much better view of the actual underlying performance.
For the first 9 months of this year industry shipment volume declined 3.7% while R.J.
Reynolds' cigarette volume excluding private label brands was down 4.4%.
R.J.
Reynolds' volume decline was driven by losses on support and nonsupport brands.
These brands have been hit hard by a significant increase in competitive promotional activity this year.
As you know R.J.
Reynolds manages these brands to optimize the mix between market share performance and profitability.
And in order to accomplish that the company has not significantly increased the discounting levels on these brands this year.
Now looking at market share.
R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share excluding private label was down 0.8% for the quarter.
But again for the 9 months it was in line with the prior-year period at 27.4%.
R.J.
Reynolds' growth brand Camel and Pall Mall once again delivered good performance in the third quarter.
These 2 brands continue to play an increasingly important role in R.J.
Reynolds' results and now account for 60% of the company's total cigarette volume.
Camel R.J.
Reynolds' premium growth brand continues to deliver solid performance despite a really challenging marketing environment.
This environment is putting pressure on all premium priced products and Camel is no exception.
Although the brand's market share was down slightly compared to the prior-year quarter Camel has delivered steady sequential market share growth this year.
Camel is benefiting from the outstanding performance of its menthol styles which increased our market share by 1/2 a share point from the prior-year quarter and now stands at 2.4%.
And Camel menthol has accounted for the majority of growth from the premium menthol category this year.
Camel's menthol styles which include Camel Crush and Camel Crush Bold utilize R.J.
Reynolds' innovative capsule technology which offers adult smokers the choice of how they enjoy their smoking experience.
This option has proven to be quite appealing and is driving positive brand demographics.
Camel Crush Bold which was expanded nationally in late July is only the second style for Camel Crush and is R.J.
Reynolds' only cigarette line extension in more than 3 years.
This style offers a richer more full-bodied taste and the company expects it to further broaden the appeal of the Camel brand and drive additional growth.
But our commitment to innovation doesn't stop there.
We also see tremendous growth potential for Camel SNUS.
I'm pleased to say that Camel SNUS enjoys a 70% share market in the category and shipments are up more than 20% this year.
While the category itself is still small awareness and trial remains high.
And we continue to believe that the same consumer convenience attributes that are driving growth in other smokeless tobacco product categories should benefit the SNUS category as well.
Now turning to Pall Mall R.
J.
Reynolds' value growth brand.
Pall Mall continued to deliver strong market share and volume gains in both the third quarter and year-to-date periods.
This growth came in the face of significant competitive activity with many brand choices at or below Pall Mall's price point.
Pall Mall's third quarter market share increased by 7/10 of a percentage point and stands at 8.6%.
The brand's strong performance is underpinned by its positioning as a high-quality longer-lasting cigarette that offers exceptional value.
In today's economic environment Pall Mall is a terrific asset in R.J.
Reynolds' brand portfolio.
So all in all R.J.
Reynolds has performed well through the third quarter.
The company's results show the strength and resilience of its business model.
The company's growth brands continue to drive improved performance by bringing innovation coupled with a rich heritage to the market.
Now onto American Snuff.
The company once again delivered strong marketplace performance in the quarter despite the intense promotional environment in the moist-snuff category.
American Snuff achieved outstanding growth in both volume and market share in the quarter.
The company's market share increased 1.1 percentage points from the prior-year quarter and now stands at 31.6%.
American Snuff's flagship brand Grizzly drove the company's performance delivered excellent volume growth of more than 9% in the quarter and almost 10% for the year-to-date period.
Not many brands are delivering 10% growth in this economy.
On top of that Grizzly's third quarter market share increased by 1.6 percentage points from the prior-year period with a total market share of 27.8%.
Grizzly is really benefiting from the new retail contracts that American Snuff rolled out in the second quarter of this year.
This investment is providing the brand with its fair share of retail space as well as better brand and pricing communication.
Grizzly is also benefiting from the strength and scale of R.J.
Reynolds' field trade marketing organization which now also serves American Snuff.
I would also note that Grizzly celebrated its 10th anniversary in September.
The brand is a true success story becoming the market leader in a rapidly growing and highly profitable category in just 10 years.
So those are the highlights for American Snuff.
I believe that the company's solid underlying performance and the investments they are making puts them in position to deliver sustainable growth well into the future.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I would briefly like to point out that RAI's Santa Fe subsidiary continued to deliver excellent results in the third quarter as its Natural American Spirit brand again drove gains in earnings volume and market share.
So good news on that front as well.
That's a look at some of Reynolds American's achievements in the third quarter.
Now Tom will provide additional details.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
As you've just heard RAI and its operating companies continued to deliver good results last quarter.
As I discuss that performance I'll focus on adjusted results to provide perspective on our underlying business.
So let's start with RAI's results.
On a reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.63 per share down 3.1% from the prior-year quarter driven by an accrual for the 4 Engle progeny lawsuits specifically the Martin Hall Gray and Campbell cases.
$63 million was accrued in the third quarter which included $53 million for compensatory and punitive damages and $10 million for attorney's fees and statutory interest.
These 4 cases have proceeded through the appellate process in the state of Florida and R.J.
Reynolds will ask the U.S.
Supreme Court to review these 4 cases.
R.J.
Reynolds' policy is to record any litigation loss when an unfavorable outcome in any individual case becomes probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The company believes it has strong legal positions and defenses for its Engle progeny cases.
But the nature evolution and progression of the Engle progeny cases through the federal and state court systems in Florida do not allow management a sufficient level of predictability of the timing and outcomes on a case-by-case basis.
So for the foreseeable future we will provide adjusted EPS guidance excluding any impacts of Engle progeny cases in order to provide a consistent basis for evaluating ongoing business performance.
Excluding that charge of $0.06 per share and implementation and integration costs of $0.01 per share RAI's third quarter adjusted earnings were $0.70 per share up 2.9%.
Adjusted EPS for the first 9 months of 2011 was $1.96 per share up 3.7%.
These adjusted earnings exclude the items I just described as well as the Scott lawsuit and tax items.
Reynolds American's adjusted operating margin for the third quarter increased 1.5 percentage points to 32.1% driven by higher pricing and productivity at our operating companies.
Turning to R.J.
Reynolds' performance.
R.J.
Reynolds' third quarter adjusted operating income which excluded the accrual for the 4 Engle lawsuits increased 2.6% from the prior-year quarter to $587 million as higher cigarette pricing and productivity gains more than offset cigarette volume declines.
R.J.
Reynolds delivered significant improvement in their adjusted operating margin which increased 1.4 percentage points from the prior-year period to 31.2%.
Now let's look at American Snuff.
Third quarter adjusted operating income was $90 million down 12.1% from the prior-year quarter.
That decrease was driven by the impact of the sale of Lane early this year.
Lane contributed about $10 million to American Snuff's operating income in the prior-year period.
For the 9-month period adjusted operating income was $258 million down 5.1% from the prior-year period.
This comparison was also negatively affected by the Lane sale.
The company's third quarter adjusted operating margin was 54.9% down slightly from the prior-year quarter while operating margin for the first 9 months rose 1.9 percentage points to 53.2%.
Turning to moist-snuff volume American Snuff's total moist-snuff shipment volume again saw strong growth to 7% in the third quarter and was up 7.7% for the 9 months.
American Snuff's growth was driven by Grizzly with third quarter shipment volume growth of 9.1%.
And Grizzly's volume increased 9.9% for the first 9 months.
So American Snuff is doing very well and is positioned to deliver additional gains this year.
Now I'd like to give some additional details on the dividend increase we announced this morning.
As Dan mentioned the Board approved a 5.7% increase in RAI's dividend which further demonstrates the company's commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
When combined with the increase that was announced in February our total dividend growth is 14.3% this year or $0.28 per share on an annualized basis.
We continue to view our dividend as the key tool for returning value to our shareholders but we are also evaluating other opportunities to effectively use our cash and return additional value.
With respect to our balance sheet Reynolds American ended the quarter with cash balances of $2 billion and we have significant financial flexibility with a leverage ratio of 1.3x debt to EBITDA which is slightly below our target range of 1.5 to 2.5x.
We have also taken some significant steps to strengthen our pension plans.
The company contributed $75 million to the pension plans in the third quarter.
In addition a contribution of $125 million was made in early October bringing our total contribution to $200 million this year.
Now turning to guidance.
Based on our solid performance through the first 9 months of this year Reynolds American has tightened its full-year forecast to an adjusted EPS range of $2.63 to $2.68.
That's an earnings increase of 5.6% to 7.6% from the 2010 adjusted results.
As I explained earlier this guidance excludes charges for individual Engle progeny lawsuits the Scott lawsuit implementation and integration costs and tax items as well as any potential impact of goodwill and trademark impairments.
So in closing we feel good about our performance and the value we are returning to our shareholders.
We've delivered sustainable growth in our businesses which has allowed us to reward our shareholders with the higher dividends.
Our total shareholder return for the first 9 months this year of 20% would be considered good in any market but when compared to the S&amp;P 500 which has declined by more than 8.5% it's been a very impressive performance.
On that positive note we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Gavin would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess my first question I just wanted to touch on a little bit with the weakness or the pressure you're seeing on your premium brands.
Can you talk a little bit more in detail about any initiatives you might be putting into place to try and stem some of the downtrading pressure they're facing? Yes I think first of all I would characterize Camel's performance as being quite robust in the quarter.
I think we look at it sequentially.
We see that we actually grew 1/10 of a market share point and this is in an environment in a market environment where there is significant downtrading going on.
When I think about downtrading I really think we need to look at the downtrading in 2 forms.
There's obviously downtrading within the cigarette category and more recently we've also been picking up some of the growth of other smoking categories that are lower-priced smoking options.
And by that what I really mean is the little cigar category which is tax advantage in this country today which is growing.
And also the -- it looks like traditional roll-your-own but it's being classified as pipe tobacco but it's actually being smoked as roll-your-own.
So we have a little nickname internally for that we're calling it the pipe-your-own category.
But that's the downtrading sort of that's going on in the market place.
And in the light of that to have Camel hold up its performance like it did I think it's very very positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That helps.
And then switching gears over to the margins that you've seen expand during the quarter.
Can you touch on some of your productivity or cost-saving initiatives and how big of a role those programs played to help you expand your margins? I think if I look back at the third quarter I don't think there's anything huge of note within the numbers but it's ongoing efforts within the company and really has become a way of life for us.
So there is at any point in time 10s and 100s of little projects that actually go in that all contribute little amounts of money that all add up at the end of the quarter.
So quite pleased with our increase that we've been able to post in the adjusted operating margin.
Sequentially that's up 2 percentage points and year-on-year that's up 1.5 percentage points.
So I think that's very very positive.
And of course we also have the pricing gains quarter-on-quarter.
And I think the headline sort of net price realization numbers are maybe a little bit overstated just because of some of the contract manufacturers that's within it.
Even when we net that out I would say that we have quite a positive net pricing realization number of around 3% on the ongoing domestic business.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan just in terms of the competitive environment maybe you can talk a little bit more about just what you saw in the third quarter as it relates to whether you did see more of a change in the intensity of the promotional spending or any sort of competitive activity and whether that came more from some of the smaller players.
Because it does seem like Pall Mall's growth while you did see some growth growth has slowed a bit on that brand.
Let me just take those questions in turn.
First in terms of Pall Mall year-on-year we're actually up 7/10 of a market share point which I think is quite positive.
Of course we're lapping some extraordinary gains during the same quarter last year on Pall Mall.
But 7/10 is nothing to be ashamed of.
In fact I'm quite proud of that number and what the organization has achieved.
In terms of competitive pressure I would characterize the third quarter as being sort of a fairly typical quarter from competitive pressure point of view after characterizing the second quarter as being sort of a through the regular cycles but a pretty heavy kind of spend quarter.
In fact just looking at where we sit so far in the fourth so really this quarter to date I would say that it looks like there's a small ramp-up in competitive spend during this fourth quarter but all within kind of a normal to-ing and fro-ing in the marketplace and the normal kind of cyclical activity that happens in the category.
Research Division</strong> And would you think that that would be the case for 2012? You've talked about the consumers being under pressure.
You've talked about the downtrading to not within cigarettes but to some of the other tobacco products as well.
Do you think that there's risk that the competitive landscape actually becomes more intense in 2012? I mean the answer to that question Judy really just kind of need to make an underlying assumption and you can do that as well as I can in terms of where the economy is actually going from a macro category point of view.
But I really look at our prospects next year and our ability to keep delivering shareholder expectations and I'm quite bullish on that.
I think we have the right organization.
The right portfolio are present in the right categories in the marketplace.
And I believe we can keep delivering irrespective of the economic environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in American Snuff just in terms of the profitability even if you exclude the $10 million contribution from Lane it looked like profit would have been maybe flat to down a little bit even though volume was up 7% or so.
So can you talk a little bit about the pricing and profitability on the Snuff business.
Yes I don't think so much it's a pricing issue because of course we've had good pricing and we've had taken regular price increases over time on our moist-snuff business at American Snuff.
Really in the back-end of the first quarter of this year we started spending or really investing into the marketplace a bit more.
And that has to do with actually getting our fair share of presence at retail getting our pricing communicated and through to the consumer and really just getting our fair share of things at retail.
And so that requires some investment from a company point of view.
And that investment happy to report that it's actually paying off dividends and we're actually seeing a good return on that investment as evidenced by the superior performance of Grizzly in the marketplace.
It's up year-on-year 1.6 market share points sequentially up 4/10 and really quite proud of that performance despite the loss of the competitive pricing pressure in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom finally just in terms of your full-year guidance if I take the mid-point of your updated guidance it still implies a pretty strong growth since fourth quarter versus sort of mid to high -- I guess low to mid single-digit growth that you've seen year-to-date.
So was there anything just in terms of last year in the fourth quarter that sort of depressed the year-ago numbers? Or you're looking for pretty good pickup in fourth quarter? I'm just trying to figure out why you would anticipate a pretty strong growth in Q4.
Yes there was nothing in last year's fourth quarter.
I think this is just our confidence in each of these operating companies to deliver volume and share growth through the balance of the year Judy.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of questions for you.
I want to know has there been -- was there in the quarter any inventory shift for you of note that we should basically get a better sense of maybe your underlying volume shook out in the quarter? Yes I think you're probably well aware that the industry ended with fairly high levels of inventory at wholesale end of the second quarter that way.
I think we would characterize wholesale inventories today as being at normalized levels.
And the sort of characterization I put around those inventories is that we had some but we had disproportionately little at retail.
In fact I believe our number was right around the $500 million-stick level.
But if you look at our share of that inventory that was sitting at wholesale we were well underrepresented.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I noticed where you gave your shipment figures and then you had your retail share figures one that stood out in my opinion was Camel where you had shipments flat.
But your market share for Camel was down a little bit at retail.
I'm just curious in relation to that because I guess Pall Mall showed relatively similar shipment pattern but we had a much stronger retail share pattern.
Can you talk about those 2 maybe what was kind of going on? Was that really just the distortions in shipments because of inventory? Yes I don't have a specific answer for you on that but generally speaking when we do the actual market share it's actually done by an outside company.
So it's a retail audit.
So they actually audit a certain number of stores.
There may be small fluctuations within that.
When we look at Camel share year-over-year it's down 1/10 but sequentially it's up 1/10.
Now of course those are fairly small movements within that.
So I honestly -- my own mind don't read too much into that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another question just a quick follow-up on the Engle accruals.
You've not had any other Engle accruals that you've taken to this point right? That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would you normally include attorney's fees within those accruals when you take those historically? For other cases have you done that? In the past when we had paid yes we have.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question Dan.
When you think about the total tobacco strategy Reynolds has been pursuing for the last few years is there anything missing in your portfolio? I mean when you think about -- you talked about little cigars as being a growth category roll-your-own.
I mean anything that you think would be interesting to fill in in terms of the portfolio? I think the way I would characterize it Nik is obviously the bulk of our business today as we sit here is still cigarettes and it will be for the foreseeable future.
But of course we're present and growing in the growing category of moist-snuff.
We've organically launched into the SNUS category very happy with that performance as well.
We are far and away the leader in that small but growing category and in fact have seen 20% volume growth year-on-year.
Then of course I think the consumer continues to look for new opportunities out there to enjoy the tobacco experience.
And as you know we are testing dissolvables as we speak.
And certainly I think the concept there is very relevant and I believe that consumers will keep looking potentially even beyond that for new ways to enjoy the tobacco experience.
So I think we're quite happy with our footprint sort of across the different categories as we see it having evolved to date but continue to look and continue to think about where this might be going in the future and what new opportunities may present themselves.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the other question just any thoughts on the FDA's white paper review in menthol any thoughts any updated thoughts from your side? No I think really where the FDA is on that I think has been well-reported in terms of what they're doing the peer review currently.
We're obviously engaging with the FDA on a tangential but maybe related issue which is on the dissolvable side.
Quite looking forward to a lot of that interaction because I think we have a great story to actually get out on that front.
But I really don't think there's any new news currently on the FDA front.
Our next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan given the performance of the support brands recently do you think realistically R.J.
Reynolds is now in a period of renewed overall market share erosion? David I don't.
I think when we take a look at our support brands and just to remind the rest of the people on the call these are bands like Winston Kool Salem and Doral.
They tend to have a older consumer demographic profile and they tend to have more price sensitive consumers within the franchise.
So of course when there is a lot of pricing activity in the marketplace they tend to be overrepresented in some of the downtrading that actually happens in that kind of an environment.
We watch these brands very closely just to make sure that we are optimizing the quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year kind of results from -- and really trying to balance out the profitability on these brands with the market share performance.
I think we do spend a little bit of money on these brands but obviously disproportionately they get significantly less resources than our growth brands those being Camel and Pall Mall.
So I think we have the right strategy in place for these brands but of course they will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on what's going on in the marketplace and the competitive pressures.
Research Division</strong> And Dan what's your confidence that R.J.
Reynolds over time can grow its operating income? I think through the 9 months it's up about 1%.
If you look out over the next couple of years what's your assessment on that metric? Well obviously giving forward guidance is problematic but I would say that I am very confident that R.J.
Reynolds is on the right strategy has the right portfolio in place and can meet its operating expectations into the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I have a question on Engle and potentially pricing.
If -- I know it's not your base case assumption but assume that these losses are not reversed on appeal the trial activity persists and it becomes sort of an ongoing irritant not just for your company but for your competitors do you think ultimately in that environment that the industry would essentially price for these kinds of cases as it has with FDA user fees and MSA accruals in other words it would just become a cost of doing business? I mean David you're asking me to speculate.
I'm working on the assumption and I have the belief that these cases will be overturned on appeal.
And that's really the scenario that we are focused upon.
If we look at the sort of 2 DCAs in Florida and the federal court that's actually looked at the cases they've all come to different opinions on these kinds of cases.
So we're quite confident that our appellate strategy will prevail.
And of course there are issues of timing that come into play as to when eventual review will be won by ourselves.
But that's really where our focus is as an organization and we're quite confident that we can see our way through this challenge on the legal front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly the increase in the dividend is there sort of a subtle indication with respect to that as it relates to the Board's interest or enthusiasm of ultimately initiating a share repurchase program? No.
I think clearly it's just a fantastic vote of confidence as we sit here today.
And obviously we have a target payout policy of 80%.
This is roughly in line with that and we're happy to be able to actually reward our shareholders along the way.
We obviously prefer to do that through dividends but are actively considering other alternatives as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last thing do you think that the U.S.
cigarette industry consumption decline more or less is consistent with the year-to-date shipment decrease of 3.7% 3.8%? Do you think that the 2 are fairly similar? Yes David.
I think maybe if we're going for a little bit more detail there I would -- we're estimating the year to be 3.5% to 4% down.
I think it's fair to say that that decline rate is maybe a little bit higher than we might have expected given what's happened with price movements and where we're seeing the absence of significant tax increases this year.
In fact happy to report that the SETs seem to be coming in at about $0.01 or $0.02 for the entire year 2011.
But what we have noticed is some growth in some of the other smoking categories.
And I mean by that I mentioned this earlier on the call but it's the little cigar category and that category that we're calling pipe-your-own which is really products that are packed as if they are pipe tobacco but tend to be used by consumers as a roll-your-own.
And those categories have been growing.
And I think once we factor that in I think we're still very much in line with the historical price sensitivity of demand.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just to turn back to Pall Mall quickly and some of the competitive pressure that you guys face I was wondering if you could offer some color on how your pricing both on an absolute and relative basis evolved through the quarter.
Did you pass through the price increase? Did you hold it back? And kind of how did the competition respond? Yes I think we largely passed through the price increase.
I mean we certainly saw some of the margins of the brand.
So actually it's quite positive from that point of view.
I think what we all need to understand is that Pall Mall is not the low-priced brand out there.
There are significant competitive offers at or below Pall Mall's price.
And so it isn't the absolute cheapest at retail.
So we as a company obviously even in our value brands try to optimize some of the long-term and quarter-to-quarter earnings on the brand with this market share performance.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And just quickly on the pension can you guys offer some color on your comfort level that you won't need to step up your pension contributions in the fourth quarter given kind of the macro backdrop? Sure.
Right -- at the end of the third quarter we were about 85% funded Vivien in that.
And I'm including that $125 million that we put it in in October in there.
So pension assets are around $4.9 billion.
We're comfortable with 85% and that's because we actually reduced the discount rate.
We're now modeling a 5% discount rate as opposed to 5.6% and that's added some liabilities.
And while I won't call where interest rates will go over time I do believe that they're going to go up.
And as I mentioned before a 100-basis-point movement up in the discount rate eliminates $500 000 to $600 000 of our liabilities and that would put us on a fully-funded basis.
So we're pretty comfortable.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering with the decline in market share and what looks like acceleration in that decline sequentially combined with consumer downtrading weakness in Pall Mall is there a need for Reynolds to step up brand support as we look out into '12? Can you comment on that? Well obviously the brand supports actually those are decisions that we make in a competitive environment going forward.
So it's really hard for me to comment in terms of our pricing plans going forward.
But certainly when we look back I think we're happy with the way that we have actually navigated through a quite competitive environment and I'm particularly thinking of the second quarter.
I think as the third quarter kind of unfolded it progressively got -- became more normalized competitive environment.
So these are the normal kind of cyclical to-ing and fro-ing that happens in the marketplace.
So I'm happy with our strategies and I think we are spending the appropriate amount of -- resources back into the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're happy with the balance you're seeing between market share movement and margin brand performance.
You're happy with that? Well yes.
I mean obviously we'd all love to generate even more market share and we'd all love to earn more money.
But yes in terms of the balance and how the quarter actually played out I would say that we're happy.
Our next question comes from Karen Lamark of Federated Investors.
A couple of follow-up questions.
On the buyback can you update us on any timing of decisions or any anticipation on when you might decide whether or not to do a buyback? Sure.
This is Tom.
We -- just let me talk a little bit about how we've used our cash through the first 9 months.
Our largest use of cash was paying dividends.
We paid about $900 million out in dividends.
You may recall we put 400 -- we paid down debt our floating rate debt of 1% in June.
That was $400 million.
We've contributed $200 million to our pension plan and we spent through the 9 months $140 million in capital expenditures and expect to spend another $60 million in the balance of the year.
The majority of which is being spent on those 2 manufacturing facilities the manufacturing facility in Memphis for American Snuff and the leaf processing in Clarksville.
And so what we've been doing is basically trying to strengthen the balance sheet shore up the business and create capacity and make -- and for American Snuff for the foreseeable future.
And so once we get through all this heavy lifting and we are about through that we have been talking with our Board on an ongoing basis about additional ways to get money back to shareholders.
And the dividend -- or excuse me the share repurchase is one of those things that we talked about.
And so they are aware of it.
And naturally we would have to have our largest shareholder BAT participate in all that.
But those discussions are ongoing.
And then separately as it relates to Pall Mall's volume growth obviously there'd be some deceleration from some very strong levels but I'm just curious do you have any opinion or any insight into where those volumes might have gone? I think it's a combination of things Karen.
I mentioned earlier in the call that there are significant competitive offerings at or below Pall Mall's price and then there's also some price competition way at the bottom into the market from some of these other smoking categories that I mentioned.
So I think there is significant kind of downtrading going on in the marketplace.
In the marketplace in general Pall Mall is effectively competing for some of those downtraders but there are significant opportunities for consumers if they want to go down below Pall Mall to be able to do so.
So really I think the way I would characterize our strategy is not chasing volume at all cost really trying to make sure that we make our margins along the way as well.
Is it fair to assume that what you've just described is probably concentrated in your 2 largest domestic competitors? I would say not exclusively just because many of the -- if you think about the other companies outside of the large 3 the -- all the other companies tend to compete on price in the marketplace.
And then certainly these other smoking categories the little cigars and this pipe-your-own category that I described those are again not the largest 3 competitors in the marketplace.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Anton Kawalsky of Canyon Capital.
Do you have an update on the MSA disputed payments maybe how the negotiations are going and when you expect to receive any cash? Yes Anton I don't have anything new specifically.
I would say that the process continues to evolve.
I think we're quite happy with the panel of arbitrators that are there which are 3 retired federal judges.
They have brought a lot of order and defined a process that we're now going through.
And I would say that that process is evolving as we sit here.
So I think we're happy with the procedural progress but obviously look forward to the day when it is finally resolved and actually see some of the money back that we believe we're owed.
Right.
And Anton just to clarify I mean what's being arbitrated right now is the 2003 payment which is about $615 million for us.
But in aggregate we've got about $3 billion in dispute.
And our view is is that once and when this initial arbitration gets resolved the balance of those years will go at a much faster pace.
Is there any kind of timeline as to when this -- the first year is supposed to be resolved? No I think really we're in the hands of the arbitrators.
I mean obviously we are hopeful that that can be resolved sooner rather than later.
But we don't have a firm date or have been given any firm date by the arbitrators.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays Capital.
When you look at your current leverage versus your target and sort of the current debt rates that are out there can you just speak broadly about how you view the potential for taking on additional debt? Well I mean we watch the debt markets as well and we see that they're actually quite attractive right now.
We would have to have a reason to put on more debt.
If you look at our debt portfolio right now we're sitting with about $3.6 billion.
It's at 5.9% and durations are a little bit less than 7 years.
We've got -- with the MSA cash and the way that that comes in we've got a lot of money on our balance sheet today.
And having cash just in the absolute is not the best asset to have.
In fact it's quite expensive.
So -- I mean if we were to go out and borrow more money we would absolutely need to have something to do with it.
Otherwise the negative carry on that is quite severe.
So we do watch that and we are very much aware of the current market and the debt markets.
That's helpful.
And just one quick follow-up if I could.
When you do talk about your duration is your target to sort of keep your maturity profile inside of 10 years? Or would you potentially at the right moment look to do something longer-term as well? We could do something longer-term.
In fact we have some 30-year debt that's out there.
So we're completely open to extending the duration.
I'm showing no further question.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us for the call today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the fourth quarter and full year as well as our outlook for 2012.
As usual our discussions will focus on adjusted results as the management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
As we reported today Reynolds American rounded out a challenging but successful year on many fronts with significant growth in earnings and margins in the fourth quarter.
And I'm pleased to say that this solid performance allowed us to continue to return substantial value to our shareholders.
I remind you that in October we announced another increase in our dividend and that brought the total dividend increase for the year to 14.3%.
And in November we announced the start of a $2.5 billion share repurchase program that will extend through mid-2014.
These actions demonstrate not only our commitment to returning value to our shareholders it also reflects our confidence in the business moving forward.
It's fair to say that over the past year the market price environment has been a difficult one.
And the year ahead is not likely to be an easy year.
The weak economy and high unemployment rate continue to put pressure on consumer disposable income and competitive promotional activity remains intense.
We don't expect these pressures to ease anytime soon but are confident in our continued ability to deliver superior results.
This year our operating companies intend to sustain the momentum on their key brands and we'll continue to invest in innovation while maintaining the financial flexibility to take advantage of competitive opportunities.
So with this in mind we started a detailed review of all our key activities and resources to ensure that they're in line with today's business landscape.
As you saw on our earnings release this morning RAI RAI Services and most departments within R.J.
Reynolds have started a comprehensive analysis of their program activities and organizational structures.
This review is just getting under way and is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter.
As such we're not in a position today to give specific details of this review.
RAI's operating companies had a strong track record of successfully managing through challenges while also continuing to invest in and build their businesses for sustainable growth.
Based on this track record we expect good growth in earnings in 2012.
RAI's full year EPS is expected to increase by mid- to high-single digits over 2011 adjusted earnings.
Tom will give you details on this in his financial update.
Now let's look at last year's performance at our operating companies.
R.J.
Reynolds delivered higher adjusted operating income and operating margin in both the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Growth brand volume gains higher pricing and productivity improvements more than offset the impact of cigarette volume decline.
As I explained earlier R.J.
Reynolds is operating in a tough environment and the company's cigarette volume was negatively impacted in the fourth quarter by heavily promoted competitive line extension as well as the timing of the company's promotional activities.
The company remains focused on balancing share volume and profitability over the long term.
R.J.
Reynolds volume performance was also affected by a strategic decision to move away from its private label brands.
Excluding those brands the company's fourth quarter volume decreased by 7.1% versus the industry decline of 2.7%.
I would note here that nearly half of the volume decline came from the Doral value brand for which the company derived only modest levels of pricing support.
Looking at the underlying volume performance over the full year R.J.
Reynolds' volume excluding private label brands was down 5.1% compared with an overall industry decline of 3.5%.
R.J.
Reynolds cigarette market share excluding private label brands was down 0.3 of a percentage point to 27.3% for the year as the growth brand gains were more than offset by declines on the company's support and nonsupport brands.
Moving on to R.J.
Reynolds 2 growth brands.
We're pleased to report that Camel and Pall Mall continued to perform well in 2011 despite the challenging environment.
These brands increased their combined market share in both the fourth quarter and for the year.
In fact they gained 1.3 percentage points last year and now hold 16.4% of the market.
This performance was supported by a 2.9% increase in volume.
And these 2 brands have grown to account for about 60% of the company's total cigarette volume.
R.J.
Reynolds premium Camel brand saw a modest increase in market share last year which is quite an accomplishment for a premium-priced brand in this economic environment.
Camel reported excellent growth on its menthol styles which increased market share by 0.5 a percentage point.
Camel menthol styles have been enhanced by last year's national expansion of Camel Crush's second style Camel Crush Bold which also offers the company innovative capital technology to adult smokers.
These styles give Camel a solid platform for future growth in the premium menthol category.
Turning to Camel SNUS.
I'm happy to say that Camel SNUS made great stride in the growing snus category last year.
The preferences of adult tobacco consumers are changing and Camel is transforming its offerings with the times.
And the spit-free and smoke-free convenience of Camel SNUS allows adult consumers to switch from smoking while continuing to enjoy tobacco.
Camel SNUS finished the year with 75% share of this category with the volume growing by double digit.
Now turning to R.J.
Reynolds' value-priced growth brand Pall Mall.
Pall Mall continued to generate volume and share gains in the fourth quarter and full year.
Pall Mall's market share increased by 1.1 percentage point in 2011 to 8.5% on volume growth of 8%.
Pall Mall's reputation for high-quality longer-lasting cigarette continue to attract value-conscious consumers especially in this weak economy.
Now let's turn to American Snuff.
The company ended the year with sustained momentum reporting excellent growth in both market share and volume.
Even with the intense competitive activity in the moist-snuff category American Snuff market share increased 1.2 percentage points from the prior year of 31.5% and that's on volume growth of 7.3% for the year.
That compared quite well with growth of about 5% for the overall moist-snuff category.
Once again the main driver of the company's performance was Grizzly which continues to benefit from enhancements to its brand equity.
With the recent investments in its new retail contract Grizzly is now getting improved brand and pricing communication as well as a better share of retail space.
In addition we expanded R.J.
Reynolds field trade marketing organization which now also serves American Snuff it's providing greater benefits to Grizzly in stores.
Grizzly delivered outstanding share performance in 2011 with fourth quarter market share increasing by 1.4 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
And for the full year its market share was up by 1.6 percentage point bringing the brand share to 27.7%.
Grizzly shipment saw strong growth last year with a 9.4% increase.
Grizzly pouch styles continued to perform extremely well in 2011 gaining 0.9 of a percentage point from the prior year.
Grizzly pouches now represent almost 1/3 of all pouch sales.
To put this in perspective overall growth of moist-snuff pouch styles was up by more than 10% last year and Grizzly captured more than 3/4 that growth.
In addition the company believes there is good potential for incremental growth for Grizzly especially on its portfolio of natural flavor styles.
To this end American Snuff is focused on driving increased awareness and trial for these styles this year.
So that's a terrific performance from Grizzly and we believe there's a lot more to come as the brand continues to enhance brand equity and build market momentum.
As we announced earlier we have elected to report Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company's domestic business as a reportable business segment.
Based on its increasing importance to RAI's performance we thought the time was right to provide more detailed information on this rapidly growing business.
In fact since its acquisition 10 years ago we've seen an outstanding contribution from Santa Fe.
Its super premium Natural American Spirit brand has delivered a fivefold increase in market share.
And in 2011 the company's performance continued to grow from strength to strength even as overall demand for cigarettes declined.
Santa Fe generated double-digit gains in earnings volume and market share last year and its operating margins saw substantial growth as well.
Natural American Spirit increased its market share by 0.2 of a percentage point for the year and now stands at 1% with volume growth of 13.5%.
This kind of powerful performance is testament to the company's unique high-quality tobacco offerings and they're intensely loyal franchise and Santa Fe is well positioned for continued growth in the years ahead.
So to wrap up RAI's operating companies demonstrated their resilience and their ability to successfully manage the challenges of 2011.
And they continue to strengthen their platforms for sustainable growth by enhancing their key brands and identifying new opportunities for their innovative smokeless tobacco products as part of RAI's strategy to transform the industry over the long term.
Now Tom will provide some financial details.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased with Reynolds American's financial performance in 2011 which allowed us to continue to return excellent value to our shareholders through the increased dividend and new share repurchase program.
Dan has spoken about the difficult environment in which our companies are operating.
Even so they made solid progress in many areas during the fourth quarter and across the year which resulted in higher earnings and margin at RAI.
I'll start with RAI's results.
On an adjusted basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.72 per share up 12.5% from the prior year quarter.
These adjusted results exclude noncash charges of $0.05 per share for trademark impairments as well as $0.15 per share for the mark-to-market adjustments for pension and post-retirement plans.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $2.81 up 6.8% from the prior year.
These results exclude the items I just mentioned as well as the accruals for 4 Engle progeny lawsuits the charge for the Scott lawsuit implementation costs and tax items.
They also exclude 2010 charges related to goodwill impairments plant closings federal health care changes and Canadian government settlements.
On a reported basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.52 per share up 15.6% from the prior year quarter.
And for the full year reported EPS was $2.40 up 25% from the prior year.
I would also note that these results reflect the impact of the sale of Lane at the end of February last year as well as the pension accounting change we announced in November.
Reynolds American delivered a significant increase in adjusted operating margin in the fourth quarter which was up 2.9 percentage points from the prior year quarter at 34.1% driven by higher pricing and productivity improvements at our operating companies.
That brought full year adjusted operating margin to 32% up 1.8 percentage points from the prior year period.
As I review the individual operating company's performance I'll focus on adjusted results to provide perspective on their underlying businesses.
The adjustments I've just covered are also excluded from the operating companies' adjusted results.
Now turning to R.J.
Reynolds' performance.
R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter adjusted operating income increased 9.2% from the prior year quarter to $594 million as higher cigarette pricing and productivity gains more than offset cigarette volume declines.
For the full year adjusted operating income was up 4.3% at $2.3 billion.
The company made significant improvements in its fourth quarter adjusted operating margin which increased 2.9 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 33.6%.
And for the full year was up 1.5 percentage points to 32%.
Now turning to American Snuff.
As we have mentioned the sale of Lane negatively impacted profit comparison throughout the year.
Fourth quarter adjusted operating income was $88 million down 15.4% from the prior year quarter when Lane contributed about $10 million to American Snuff operating income.
For the full year American Snuff's adjusted operating income was $346 million down 8% from the prior year which was driven by the Lane sale.
The company's fourth quarter adjusted operating margin was 53% down 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter but for the year it increased by 1 percentage point to 53.2%.
And at Santa Fe the company again delivered outstanding performance.
Santa Fe's fourth quarter operating income increased 39% from the prior-year quarter to $50 million.
And for the full-year adjusted operating income was $199 million up 41.3%.
Santa Fe's operating margin was 45.6% in 2011 up 6 percentage points from the prior year.
Now I'd like to give some other financial highlights.
As Dan mentioned our new share buyback program got underway in the fourth quarter and the company repurchased approximately 6.7 million shares for $276 million during that period.
This program is a further demonstration of our commitment to returning value to our shareholders together with our dividend which was increased by an additional 5.7% in the fourth quarter.
Reynolds American once again delivered outstanding value in 2011 with a total shareholder return of 34.4% significantly outpacing the S&amp;P 500's return of just 2.1%.
With respect to our balance sheet Reynolds American ended the year with cash balances of $2 billion that was after contributing an additional $125 million to the pension plans in the fourth quarter bringing our total pension contributions in 2011 to $220 million.
As a result of our contribution and a strong return on our pension assets we ended the year with a funded status of about 90%.
I'd also like to point out that we are lowering our estimate for long-term pension asset returns to 7% to reflect the change in asset allocation that reduces risk and volatility.
I'm pleased to report that the capital program at American Snuff was essentially completed at the end of last year with capital spending of just over $100 million on their new facilities in 2011.
Total capital spending for the year was $190 million.
So as you've just heard Reynolds American and its operating companies delivered strong performance last year and they offer a solid foundation for continued growth even in light of the challenges ahead.
Based on this RAI is projecting EPS growth in the mid- to high-single digits for 2012 with EPS guidance in the range of $2.91 to $3.01.
That's an earnings increase of 3.6% to 7.1% from the 2011 adjusted results.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that we could dive into a little bit the competitive landscape and the tough backdrop you guys have highlighted a couple of times this morning.
Can you just talk a little bit about where you're feeling the most competition? Is it from the high end or the low end? Because I was surprised to see that value underperformed premium on an industry basis in the quarter.
So I was hoping you could just expand on that a little bit.
Yes.
I would say that generically and across the board we see much more competitive pressure at the bottom end of the market so in the value segment.
And I think it comes back again to how we define value and how we define premium in our segments something that we've talked about many times in the past.
But when we look at value holistically from a consumer point of view those are our premium -- our sort of value line extensions to premium brands as well as through value propositions out in the marketplace.
And I think there's a significant downward pressure for downtrading across the category.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
In terms of the focus on innovation to be sure Camel Crush has been a nice growth engine for you guys.
As you think ahead towards the innovation on -- can you give us an update on the FDA review? I know you guys had a couple of products.
Have you gotten an update from the FDA on that review process? No.
I would say to date from an FDA point of view we have not received any sort of post-substantial equivalence sort of review from the FDA.
In fact it's been quite quiet on that front and of course we're doing everything within our power to move the process along as quickly as possible.
But of course we're in the hands of the FDA and they seem to be taking their time about it.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Fair enough.
And one last question if I could.
Do you have any comment on the TPSAC reports or the draft report on dissolvables as you guys have followed those hearings? Yes.
I think this is an area that we're frankly particularly enthused about.
Because being in direct dialogue through the TPSAC with the FDA I think it's very exciting for us because it's very much central to our long-term strategy as a company.
As you know we're a strong believer in the continuum of risk that all tobacco categories don't present the same risk profile to consumers.
And frankly we're enthused to be able to engage on that front.
And no matter what way they go I think it's frankly about building allies and getting our opinion across to more and more people over time.
And we think that benefits our corporate strategy benefits society and frankly benefits the public health.
And that is our belief and so we really look forward to the ongoing engagement on that front.
Our next question comes from the line Christina McGlone of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on smokeless.
If I strip out Lane it looks like growth was pretty flat.
And first I want to make sure that's correct.
And then second in terms of the outlook for '12 should we be thinking about growth in American Snuff in '12? Yes.
Let me talk a little bit maybe about the dynamics that's going on in the moist category.
During 2011 we increased our investment behind our growth brands which is basically Grizzly.
We launched some new retail contracts out there.
And frankly invested more behind the brand to reaccelerate its growth.
And I think if we take a look at the share performance Grizzly did particularly well.
It's up 1.6 share points year-on-year and that's for the full year and 1.4 share points when we look at it fourth quarter to fourth quarter.
But we did do some additional investments to actually generate that growth.
In addition to that we now have the R.J.
Reynolds tobacco field force actually servicing American Snuff.
So really the brand now I would say is sort of -- has played the phase of catch-up and is now getting its fair presence of visibility shelf space proper pricing at retail which has all contributed to that very strong market share performance.
On the financial side you'd be correct in your analysis that the financial performance is relatively flat once we take out the Lane divestiture and that's largely due to those investments.
But of course those now gets sort of measured into the base and we see good prospects for operating income growth over time for the moist category and particularly for Grizzly.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then on the state excise tax front at the Investor Day you talked about moderate increases in '12.
And I'm just curious if the legislative activity that we've seen to date is consistent with your expectations and maybe if you could quantify a range of expectation for state excise tax this year? Sure Christine.
I'll do my best and go out on a limb here because as you know making predictions on the political front is fraught with danger.
But our estimates on the SETs on cigarette for 2012 would be in the $0.05 to $0.10 range.
And maybe to give you a bit of color to that I think there's really one particular state that's on our radar screen as we speak which is the State of California.
They have a ballot initiative to increase the SET by $1 a pack and that would equate to $0.07 sort of national increase all on its own.
Depending on how that ballot initiative goes.
If we compare that estimate that I gave you of the $0.05 to $0.10 range that comes on the back of almost no increase for 2011.
In fact the year came in at less than $0.01 a pack national average.
So I think that $0.05 to $0.10 range is our best estimate as we see the environment currently.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question I guess just following up on Vivien's questioning something that I'm still a little confused on.
But with the competitive activity and discount picking up how do you preserve the momentum that you've been having on Pall Mall? Yes.
Here's the way I would describe it.
The brand has obviously grown very substantially over time.
It came in for the full year at 8.5 share points it's up 1.1 percentage points year-on-year.
But its growth rate did slow somewhat quarter-to-quarter during the year.
We continue to see 50% rates of retention after trial on the brand.
And that number's actually been consistent throughout this significant growth spurt of the brand.
This spurt has been on for the last couple of years.
So I think our challenge during 2012 is to reignite trial maintaining those conversion rates and of course there is a lot of competitive activity at the bottom end of the market.
I think when I looked at it it's really coming from 3 fronts.
Really the pricing activity.
The first one is we see the advent of really a new segment out there which is value line extensions to premium brands from our competitors.
Our competitors have also launched and continue to support through standalone value propositions in the marketplace.
And then there's the non-big 3 category out there which is also quite aggressive in the marketplace.
I think within those 3 categories we see the first 2 categories growing quite significantly.
So those are the value-line extensions to premium in addition to the value brands offered by our largest competitors.
And I think the good news in all of this is that we see the non-big 3 category being relatively stable through all of this.
And I think if we were to back up a few quarters ago or a few years ago given the downtrading environment that we see I think it would have been a logical prediction to have seen significant growth coming out of the non-big 3.
So all in all I think the industry is playing quite rational given the poor consumer sentiment out there and the consumer downtrading that we're observing.
Our next question comes from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to start out -- look I know you're not giving any details right now.
It's kind of early.
But can you at least talk conceptually about what's incremental about the comprehensive analysis on cost.
At the risk of sounding dramatic on the margin I mean do you feel like there's more of a need for cost savings than you previously thought to maintain the current earnings and dividend growth trajectory? I mean maybe that's obvious.
But I guess could you provide some color I guess including your view of the sustainability of competition in cigarettes.
I think Chris the way I would characterize this program is we've been on a long-term program that really started with the merger of Brown &amp; Williamson and R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco and have been consistently focused on our productivity and efficiency initiatives at the company.
And that's coming in different phases throughout.
Now I would characterize our efforts on this front and I would really characterize those as being in 3 buckets.
The first bucket is the one that -- this latest effort is also an example of.
It's the stuff that really makes it into the press release.
So that's really where it impacts headcount and where it impacts our facilities.
And we've had a number of different efforts on that front over the years.
The second bucket is much more about the internal processes and the way we work.
And that includes things like outsourcing activities capability reviews.
It includes a lot of things IT systems.
And that is maybe not as transparent but from a total savings point of view actually adds up to more than that first bucket.
And the third bucket where we've done a I think a phenomenal job as a company has to do with the pricing and promotions sort of simplification and the efficiency of spend on that front.
And that last bucket also had a very significant impact on our operating margins as a company.
And I think what we have embarked upon during the first quarter is really a good example of what we do in that first bucket that I described to you earlier.
So we've announced a comprehensive review that touches most aspects of our company.
It does not include the American Snuff company.
It does not include Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company and does not include the field at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco.
But everything else is in scope and we're looking again and continue to look to see exactly how we should be allocating resources.
And by that I mean not just financial resources but also the human resources we have as a company to make sure we're as efficient and effective as possible and that we really have all those resources lined up to continue our growth trajectory.
Now you're right in your assumption that it's too early for us to actually be able to detail the full impacts of that but we've made a commitment to our employees.
And in that sense to you as well that by the end of this quarter we'll have more details about the impacts of that program.
Research Division</strong> And I guess on a different note.
The growth of Pall Mall has sort of only given you the ability to make a lot of progress on shifting the cigarette portfolio away from your private label and support brand.
I guess looking ahead how close are you to the end of total portfolio market share declines? Or I guess does the competition and slowdown at value end in Pall Mall make the end of that total portfolio share decline more difficult? And for next year in particular do you think the portfolio will probably see share erosion again for 2012? Well I'm quite confident about our prospects going forward.
Of course we don't guide on specific market share numbers.
But when I look at the R.J.
Reynolds' tobacco performance during 2011 and I do that on an x private label basis.
Year-on-year the company was down 0.3 market share points.
Then I would also add that that doesn't include does not include the results for Natural American Spirit.
And that's brought to market by Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company which actually grew 0.2 of a market share point.
So when we look of those 2 things in aggregate from an RAI point of view the total company was down just 0.1 market share point.
And in addition to that I would say that at R.J.
Reynolds what's important to bear in mind from that volume performance in the fourth quarter is that about over half of the volume declines actually came from the value brand Doral.
And I think that's important because of course within the support brand -- the brands in the support category that actually is the one that delivers the lowest margin.
It tends to overtrade in some of the southeastern states which are the more price-sensitive states out there today.
And also in states where Pall Mall is actually doing phenomenally well.
So when I look at it in aggregate I would say I'm very bullish on our prospects going forward.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
I appreciate that.
I guess the fact that Doral was half of that volume decline I guess the question going forward is how much further down do those support brands need to be rationalized until you get to a point where -- you're probably where you want to be? Well Chris what I was trying to describe it I think we're already really at that point.
Because when we look at R.J.
Reynolds sort of being down 0.3 and NAS being up 0.2 I think we're very close already.
And of course on any brand that's declining its declines only happen once over time.
And I'm very confident about our ability to continue to grow our growth brands.
So I think implied within that you have your answer.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question Dan on the whole WTO and the clove with menthol.
And I don't know if you saw the Obama administration basically appealed the WTO's gesture that they I guess unreasonably banned cloves but not menthol.
I'm just curious if you had any thoughts on that.
Because it seems like it was a pretty strongly worded response saying that clove is a starter product and menthol is not.
And it's just seem kind of odd given the FDA is going to this review and the Obama administration made that statement.
So just curious on your thoughts on that.
Nik really I think at this stage I actually haven't read that statement.
And I think it would be a little bit premature for me to wager an opinion on that.
So really I think I'll need to get back to you on that.
And to be very frank not so focused on the cloves segment here in the U.S.
which is very very tiny.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
No I was just trying to understand.
It seem like they're almost supporting the fact that they banned cloves but they did not ban menthol and they had clear justifications for doing so.
And so it was just curious statement coming out of the Obama administration so I just wanted to get your thoughts.
But I'm happy to follow up with Morris afterwards.
The second question is just obviously a lot of proliferation of e-cigarettes and a lot of talk within the industry.
Curious about Reynolds' positioning on that particular segment of the industry.
Yes.
I think what we see in the e-cigarette space is it's not a category we participate in.
But I think we see a lot of entrants in that category.
I think we see some trial in that category but relatively low conversion rates.
And it's obviously something we as a company keep an eye on because we believe that we are a total tobacco company.
And so really looking at that category I would say that there is consumer interest at least enough consumer interest to try.
But it doesn't appear to be enough consumer interest to convert permanently to products like that.
Our next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the price caps that currently exist between the premium brands and then the very cheaper deep discount brands sort of where that gap is which I believe is pretty narrow today versus the last several years.
But then also I'd really like to hear where you see the gap from the premium to the second tier where Pall Mall competes.
And is it narrow enough as we think about the downtrading pressure? And then Dan you mentioned also some heightened activity even from the non-big 3 brands and so where that gap is? And yes just so are you in a comfortable place or you think gap needs to narrow further? No.
I think the way I would describe it is this way Bonnie.
I think if we look over time I think it's right your observation that we've seen compression of some of the gaps over time basically between premium and value.
And I think from a competitive point of view I think that's fairly rational given the downtrading environment that we're in.
And then I think also if we take a look at it over the long term is that percentage gaps as prices tend to go up and SETs increase the percentage gaps tend to go down because a lot of those taxes and industry price increases tend to be an absolute term.
But I'm actually comfortable with the pricing structure that's in the market as it sits.
I think it's a rational response from most players in the market to the consumer sentiment that's out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask a little bit more about Santa Fe and big companies portfolio brands.
In thinking about it what would your vision be for that business and potential opportunities to introduce more brands within the organic segment either in the premium category for instance not a super premium? And then possibly a price value line and the ability to innovate into smokeless? Bonnie the way I would describe it is we're obviously extremely extremely pleased with the performance of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company.
In fact I think this is that kind of a big moment in the life of that company that we're now disclosing more details about how it's actually performed for 2011.
It's over a share point in the marketplace.
And for the full year it delivered adjusted operating margin of 45% over 45%.
And that brand and that company continues to go from strength to strength.
I think a lot of that is due to its unique product propositions which you highlighted.
And frankly an extremely sort of intense and loyal consumer franchise.
In terms of us actually extending some of those propositions to other price categories those are obviously things that we think about and that we look at regularly.
But also very difficult for me to comment upon any concrete plans we may have or not at this juncture.
Having said that I think the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company with its growth brand Natural American Spirit has certainly hit a very significant and growing trend in the marketplace which is consumers looking for additive-free products.
Our next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan obviously now in the fourth quarter and through '12 you're buying back stock fairly significantly.
You haven't done that in the last few years.
And yet your earnings per share growth targets really haven't changed mid- to high-single digit.
So I think it begs the question at least to me are you being conservative? Or realistically do you envision this year there to be slowdown in your rate of operating profit growth versus what you've generated the last few years? Yes.
David let me kind of put -- give you a little bit of perspective on this.
We do have the $2.5 billion share repurchase program.
We repurchased $276 million worth of shares in the fourth quarter.
And the way I would kind of describe it is I think it's really early days.
We sit here just at the beginning of February.
I think there's a lot that hasn't been written about the year yet.
Of course we need to keep a very close eye on consumer sentiment out there.
We need to watch what happens from a downtrading dynamic.
And also need to watch what happens from a category size point of view given what's going on with the pipe-your-own category and with the little cigar category.
And of course some of the ongoing competitive dynamics.
So in my mind I would say it's really a little bit early in the year to be very definitive about how it's going to turn out.
But I'll let you put the correct adjective on it.
Research Division</strong> And the range internally that you're using for your forecast of cigarette volume decline is what for 2012? Our estimate at this stage is sort of a 3.5% to 4% in the cigarette category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Dan a competitor of yours called out that their fourth quarter results were flattered somewhat by an increase in trade inventory levels during the fourth quarter.
I assume for R.J.
Reynolds that that was not the case.
Is that correct? That would be correct.
We have as you know David we have an ongoing policy of actually not trying to limit any volatility we have to trade the inventories.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig into your comprehensive review a little bit more.
You say that you're hoping to have financial flexibility to take advantage of competitive opportunities.
Is that pointing to discounting or is there something else you would imagine that -- this playing out to be? Could you give us a little color there? No.
I think it's really it's part of an ongoing effort to make sure we have the resources to actually focus on the right growth drivers in the marketplace.
And so I don't think there are any specific opportunities that come to mind at the moment.
But really it is to make sure that we have each dollar allocated as effectively and as efficiently as possible.
But of course when we allocate resources we do that in the context of what our competitors are doing as well.
Research Division</strong> So part of it your hope would be to do more brand investment type things.
But obviously you can't rule out having some discount flexibility too? I think it's exactly what you described.
And in addition to that it's obvious -- we pride ourselves on our ability to keep innovating in each of the categories that we participate in.
And really it's about continuing our growth trajectory and continuing our investments in innovation.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And following up on David's question.
You actually -- it looks like last year you had 4% to 8% EPS growth in your guidance.
So it seems like you even may be slightly more conservative.
Would part of that be because you haven't finished this review so therefore that's not reflected in the guidance as well? I think it's fair to say.
We obviously have a general idea of where this might turn out.
But we're really doing our due diligence through this process and don't know finally where it's going to end up.
And we'll let you know more details at the end of this quarter when we have them as well.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan why don't you just probe a little bit into the price elasticity.
I think the last comment the last meeting that we've had I think your view of the elasticity in the category was a little bit more cautious.
Just wanted to get your perspective on sort of what you're seeing today a lot of the growth that's coming from the pipe tobacco.
How much of that is really driving the elasticity to come in worse than the cigarettes? Is there anything that you can point to secularly that might be changing from an elasticity perspective? I think it's a fantastic question Judy.
I mean from my perspective I don't think the price sensitivity of demand has changed in the aggregate.
And it seems to be kind of holding at the long-term sort of norm.
Having said that I think a lot of it has to do with how we define the category.
Because there are lower-priced options out there outside of the traditional cigarette category for people to consume and smoke tobacco in a different way.
Be that the little cigar category or this pipe-your-own category.
And I think that is having an impact and is making the decline in the cigarette category look larger than it otherwise could be explained by the price sensitivity of demand.
And so we obviously look at that very closely.
We also have an active strategy as a company to try to eliminate some of these distortions in the marketplace and some of the tax advantages enjoyed by these other categories.
And I think if everything was equal and was equally taxed you would see that the cigarette categories price sensitivity demand has actually remained relatively constant despite some of the pressure that consumers are under.
Now I think the bigger dynamic that's actually going on there is obviously the downtrading impact and that is where we do see the economic environment having an impact.
Research Division</strong> And then is that something because of sort of maybe a temporary nature of the tax advantage that you are not actively trying to address with potentially looking at price gap and other measures to stem that downtrading? I'm not sure I quite understood the question Judy.
Research Division</strong> To the extent that the growth in pipe tobacco right now is coming from the tax advantage nature of that category and to the extent that that changes it doesn't -- it probably stems the growth of that category.
And if that's what is likely to happen do you sort of just watch the tax situation and not go aggressively in addressing the downtrading to those segments? Yes.
I think the way I would describe it is because there's lower-priced options out there for consumers they're taking them right in certain cases.
And so when we look at the holistic kind of smoking category I would say that that total category volume if you define it that way is very much in line with some of the historic price sensitivity of demand that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom just in terms of the cost savings.
So when you benchmarked your cost structure versus the competitors where do you see the most upside? I know Dan talked about some of the buckets where headcount processes pricing promo efficiencies.
I looked at your cost per unit and you actually have the lowest within the industry.
So I'm just wondering where is the opportunities sort of benchmarking versus your peer group either within the cigarettes or maybe even broader consumer packaged goods industry? I mean your point is well taken.
I mean we're already low.
That doesn't mean there aren't opportunities to go even a bit lower.
And that's part of what Dan was referencing when he said we're looking at our capabilities.
And what we really need to do I mean do we -- are we doing redundant things across functions and can we do that in 1 place as opposed to 2.
Or -- I mean just looking at the things that we do and do we need -- and at what level do we need to do them.
Do we need to do them the best? Do we need to do them good? Or don't we need to do them at all? And it also -- we further refine that by saying what things do we need to that are strategic and what things are support? So there's different kind of levels that we go through and look at all these things.
And as Dan said earlier since 2004 we've been constantly looking at this.
And this is just a bit of a deeper dive at this particular point in time.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple I guess now they become follow-ups.
First off do you have a -- I guess a question for Tom an expectation for a decline in shares or amount of share repurchase expected for 2012? We have -- well our program was announced through beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 and would extend to the middle of 2014.
And so if you just do the math that's roughly $250 million a quarter.
We also are -- we don't buy during blackout periods.
And so for instance we haven't been in the market since the middle of December and we will reenter the market a few days after this call.
So I mean we'll moderate the amount of share repurchase based on market conditions.
But it should be fairly consistent across the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in relation to the current amount of cost savings you have coming through the business.
Do you have -- what do you expect for 2012? Is there any leaning in 2013 from previous programs? On the cost savings side we really don't announce targets.
I mean it goes back to some of the remarks that Dan made earlier.
I mean you see the press release kind of targets where there are restructurings and those make the headline news.
But the balance and the majority of our cost savings actually comes through day-to-day activities and is in the DNA of the organization whether it be in the way that we manage our pricing or whether the way that we manage the cost side of the equation.
So we don't give targets because we think it's better to just execute these things as we go along.
An then Chris maybe just as a company philosophy as well just to follow up on Tom's remarks.
I think we as a company really prefer to be measured on our adjusted operating margin and our growth at that line.
Just to announce sort of cost savings programs if they don't show up on the bottom line we haven't really saved it.
And it just means that resources are being reallocated.
And I think if you look at our trajectory over the years I think we've done a phenomenal job as a company on that side for the full year of 2011.
At total RAI we came in at 33% which is up 1.8 percentage point year-on-year.
I'm very proud of our sort of continued growth on that front.
And I think the recent announcements and some of the noise that you're hearing is just a reflection of our ongoing efforts on that front to really keep the focus on increasing our adjusted operating margin.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay agreed.
My final question sort of a quick one would be these key activities review if we can call it that.
Does it include a brand review as well? We may be looking at maybe whether it's a characterization of brand of support or nonsupport that kind of thing.
Is that part of the scope of what you're looking at in this quarter? No Chris.
That's not what we're looking at.
It's really what we're looking at is we're looking at all the activities that our employees perform across the company to make sure that all those efforts are as focused as possible on those things that help generate growth and are innovation drivers.
So it's just about having a larger proportion of our resources focused on the right things that actually deliver for shareholders.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want a little more discussion we'll love your insight as to consumer purchase patterns.
Are they staying within the premium segment and buying more on deal? Or are they moving trading down more out of the premium segment? Can you just comment kind of what you're seeing in the marketplace right now? Yes.
I think Ann it's some of both to be fair.
Of course I think the let's call it deal sensitivity at retail has increased.
And it would be fairly obvious for me to give that answer given the sort of growing segment of let's call it premium values let's call it the value line extensions of the premium brands which has seen significant growth over the last few years and that's continued all the way up to today.
So I think that segment is growing but we've also seen growth in sort of freestanding value brands.
And so I think there's some of both happening.
And so generically what I would say is that there is downtrading going on in the category and fundamentally consumers are more price-sensitive.
In fact they're just shopping the category a bit more than they have in the past when times were good.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly can you help me understand a little bit the latest update on the Star Scientific case and it looks like it's going to a settlement.
Can you comment on the timing of that and the strategy behind that at all? Yes.
I would not characterize this as settlement discussions.
The judge in the case actually invited us to participate in a mediation session and I think sort of that's fairly common in cases like this.
And it's also fairly common for us to attend those -- the mediation sessions.
And that's fairly common in the federal court system.
I think we feel very strong and very good about our defenses.
If you remember the original lawsuit indicated that we did not infringe upon the Star patent.
And on appeal those patents were upheld but so was our non-infringement.
So I think we feel very very strong about our position.
But that doesn't mean we can't go in and listen to what a mediator may or may not have to say.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what's the timing of that potential? I don't have that for you at this stage timing.
But it might be worth of your interest just to give Morris a call every once in awhile to see if there's any new news on that front.
And our final question comes from Ted Jenkins of Oppenheimer.
On the back of the comments for the patent litigation.
Given those developments I mean despite the jury result absolving RJR of a 2-year window of direct infringement.
I am concerned that there's still seemingly additional years of potentially a significant subsequent liability.
But I am heartened that you would agree to enter into a mediation process.
But more to my point given these developments and given the new regulatory oversight with the FDA.
And given that there are technologies that removes tobacco [indiscernible] levels.
Do you believe it would be a competitive edge to be possibly first amongst your peers to offer tobacco products embodying zero-cancer-causing agents and would that be a strategy in concert with your mission to transform tobacco increase your share and protect your customers to the utmost of your ability? Frankly I think we're very very confident in our sort of defenses in this case.
And very confident in our position for the years going forward as well.
And I think that's really all I'd like to comment at this stage on that front.
We as a company obviously believe very much in our sort of mission in harm reduction particularly as it applies between different product categories over time.
And I think that's what our focus is.
And as I described in some of the Q&amp;A earlier is really where we are focused as a company.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And now I'll turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Morris Moore.
Please begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the first quarter as well as our outlook for the full year.
As always our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
Clearly the year has got off to a tough start.
But when you look below the surface we actually did quite well in navigating the challenges.
Let me provide some additional insight into why we believe that our company has demonstrated considerable strength and resilience in their underlying performance.
As you probably know the promotional environment was very aggressive in the first quarter.
To be clear promotion on value-priced line extensions on competitive premium brands intensified significantly.
While competitors increased their focus on the value category R.J.
Reynolds maintained its focus on balancing market share and profitability.
And while volumes were negatively impacted the company saw improvement in both its premium mix and operating margin.
American Snuff continued to deliver outstanding growth on Grizzly but the earnings comparison was negatively impacted by the company's investment in the new retail moist-snuff contracts.
And that investment is delivering great results.
The sale of Lane last year also hurt the comparison.
In fact excluding that change the company's earnings would have been up.
And Santa Fe generated excellent growth in market share although its volumes and earnings were impacted in the quarter by the company's decision to move to a more efficient and integrated supply chain.
So while this change is clearly positive for the business its offtakes on the quarter's results appear negative.
So that's the snapshot of some of the key items that drove our first quarter results.
As you're aware we also continue to focus on productivity and we've completed a comprehensive review of the key programs and activities at RAI RAI Services and most departments within R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco.
This process has generated considerable cost savings and provides us flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions.
This also allows our company to continue to develop product innovation and further strengthen their key brands.
Despite the challenging quarter I'm confident that our operating company's business strategies will continue to move us forward this year.
Our company has continued to demonstrate their ability to adapt to changing circumstances while maintaining their focus on balancing market share and profitability.
And our company's prospects are greatly strengthened by an effective brand portfolio strategy that offers adult tobacco consumers a broad range of distinct tobacco products at different price points.
This diversification strategy offers a competitive advantage as we move ahead  and will pay dividends over the long-term as we remain committed to leading the transformation of the tobacco industry.
As such I'm pleased to be able to reaffirm our full-year earnings guidance.
We remain on course to deliver adjusted EPS growth in the mid- to high-single digits for 2012.
Before I review our operating company's performance I'd note that the FDA continues to be active in issuing several reports and guidance documents and we're complying with the agency's requirements.
I'd like to take a moment to comment on one report the dissolvable tobacco products report issued by the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee which concluded that exclusive use of dissolvable tobacco products would greatly reduce health risks compared with regular use of cigarettes.
However the committee also noted that to date experience is limited and observational evidence is lacking on how dissolvable tobacco products might affect the use of other tobacco products.
At RAI and its operating companies one of our guiding principles and beliefs and a part of our strategy to transform tobacco is that adult tobacco consumers have a right to be fully and accurately informed about the risks and the significant difference in the comparative risks of different tobacco and nicotine-based products.
This information should be based on sound science and the TPSAC report underscores the importance and relevance of this principle.
Now let's review first quarter performance at our operating companies.
R.J.
Reynolds' adjusted operating income was down slightly from the prior year quarter as lower cigarette volumes more than offset combined growth brand gains and higher pricing.
However an improvement in the company's premium mix as well as continued productivity gains contributed to an increase in its adjusted operating margins.
R.J.
Reynolds' first quarter cigarette volume declined 5.8% from the prior year quarter.
The company's volume performance was negatively impacted by the heightened competitive promotional activity which I've already discussed as well as by lower wholesale inventory levels.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 6.9 billion units at the end of the first quarter down about 1.7 billion.
While R.J.
Reynolds' wholesale inventories of approximately 1.8 billion were down about 200 million units.
I will also note that the year-on-year comparison reflects R.J.
Reynolds shift away from private label brands.
Turning to market share.
I'll remind you that as we reported in February the sampling and projection model used by R.J.
Reynolds' vendor to estimate retail cigarette market share has been revised.
The company's cigarette market share was 26.8% in the first quarter down 1.2 percentage points.
That decline was driven by losses from the company's non-growth value brands in particular the Doral value brand.
Moving on to Camel and Pall Mall growth brands.
These brands performed relatively well gaining a combined 0.1 of a market share point over the prior year quarter to 16.9%.
In fact Camel demonstrated considerable strength with volume growth of 4.4%.
And Camel's market share increased 0.1 percentage point to 8.4%.
I'm very pleased to report that Camel's premium menthol styles continue to build momentum.
The brand which is benefiting from the expansion of Camel Crush Bold delivered strong market share growth on its menthol styles with a share gain of 0.6 percentage point from the prior year quarter to 2.7%.
And Camel SNUS by far the best-selling brand of snus in the U.S.
continued to make good progress.
Camel SNUS is enhancing the brand's appeal with this month's expansion of its Mint offerings to select retail outlets.
And just in case you didn't know Camel celebrates its 99th birthday this year.
Camel is transforming this milestone into an opportunity to reward the brand's most enthusiastic adult tobacco consumers with engaging online activities delivered in a bold and a reverent way.
Website participation has been outstanding a trend we expect to continue throughout 2012.
This iconic brand has long been a leader in innovation.
As trends in tobacco use change Camel is transforming by offering adult tobacco consumers innovative smoke-free tobacco products such as Camel SNUS allowing consumers to enjoy tobacco on their own terms.
Turning to Pall Mall.
Given the intensified competitive environment Pall Mall demonstrated significant resilience delivering stable market share from the prior year quarter at 8.5%.
R.J.
Reynolds is focused on building Pall Mall while balancing the brand's share and profit growth.
Given Pall Mall's phenomenal growth over the past few years it's not surprising that this rate of growth has slowed as competition is increased with offerings at or below Pall Mall's price point.
Even so the combination of the brand's longer-lasting proposition and affordable price continues to attract interest from adult tobacco consumers seeking true value.
Now let's turn to American Snuff which started off the year with continued marketplace momentum.
As I mentioned earlier American Snuff's first quarter earnings reflect the impact of the investment in the new retail contracts which are significantly benefiting the brand.
Earnings also reflected the impact of the Lane sale last year.
American Snuff's first quarter moist-snuff volume increased 7.6% from the prior year quarter which was 1.5x that of the industry.
And American Snuff also substantially increased its moist-snuff market share which rose almost 2 percentage points from the prior year quarter to more than 32%.
Driving this excellent performance was the company's flagship Grizzly brand which is the best-selling moist-snuff brand in the U.S.
Grizzly increased first quarter shipment volume by 9.4%.
The brand also delivered significantly higher market share which increased 2.2 percentage points to 28.7%.
Grizzly continues to benefit from its improved product distribution and retail presence which puts Grizzly in a much stronger competitive position.
Once again the brand saw excellent growth in its pouch styles.
Grizzly pouches increased market share by 0.7 percentage point to 3%.
Grizzly is also transforming its offerings in the growing natural style.
The brand recently introduced new packaging that conveys the premium quality and value of Grizzly's 5 Premium Natural styles.
Natural styles represent about 30% of the overall moist-snuff market.
Grizzly is underdeveloped in these styles and American Snuff believes that this new focus offers excellent growth potential for the brand.
Moving on to Santa Fe.
The company reported higher first quarter operating income driven by volume and pricing gains in its powerful Natural American Spirit brand.
As I've noted shipment volumes were negatively impacted by the company's move to an integrated supply chain.
While this structural adjustment improves efficiency it did reduce Santa Fe's inventory levels in the first quarter.
Natural American Spirit continued to see strong growth in the first quarter on a consumer offtake basis.
The brand gained 0.2 percentage point and now holds 1.1% market share.
So to wrap up RAI's operating companies are successfully navigating the tough environment while continuing to strengthen their platforms for profitable long-term growth.
I'm very pleased with the company's efforts and I expect the recent business realignment to have a positive impact as we move throughout the year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American delivered strong underlying performance in the first quarter and looking ahead we remain confident in our company's key brands and business strategies.
As a result we're maintaining our adjusted EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01 for 2012 excluding the restructuring charge.
The restructuring and related staffing reduction are expected to generate savings of about $25 million this year.
And those savings will increase to about $70 million annually in 2015.
Reynolds American's first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.63 per share down $0.01 from the prior year quarter.
This comparison was negatively impacted by the sale of Lane as well as favorable tax items in the prior year quarter.
Adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.16 per share related to the restructuring.
They also exclude prior year charges of $0.01 per share for implementation costs as well as a gain of $0.02 per share for tax items.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.47 down 27.7% from the prior year quarter due to the restructuring charge.
However we did see solid growth in RAI's first quarter adjusted operating margin which increased 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter to 32.9%.
Moving to our operating companies.
As I review the individual operating company's performance I'll focus on adjusted results to provide perspective on their underlying businesses.
Now starting with R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco's performance.
The company's first quarter adjusted operating income of $516 million was down $1 million from the prior year quarter as higher pricing and productivity gains were offset by cigarette volume declines.
Adjusted results exclude a restructuring charge of $138 million.
First quarter adjusted operating margin increased 1.2 percentage points to 31.6% due to improved premium mix higher pricing and productivity improvements.
And at American Snuff first quarter operating income was $84 million down 3.8% from the adjusted prior year quarter.
This comparison reflects the investment in new retail moist-snuff contracts which were introduced in March of last year and of course have less of an impact on earnings in the prior year quarter than they did in the first quarter this year.
The comparison also reflects an operating income contribution of approximately $5 million from Lane in the prior year quarter.
However I would note that American Snuff's first quarter operating margin increased 0.7 percentage point from the adjusted prior year quarter to 53.2%.
Turning to Santa Fe.
Santa Fe increased operating income by 6.3% from the adjusted prior year quarter to $45 million.
This increase was driven by volume and pricing gains in Natural American Spirit.
I would note that operating income was negatively impacted by the move to the integrated supply chain that we have discussed.
Santa Fe's first quarter operating margin remained strong at 45%.
Now I'd like to update you on some financial highlights.
As part of RAI's $2.5 billion share repurchase program initiated late last year the company repurchased 6.3 million shares for $261  million in the first quarter.
This brings total repurchases to date to 13.1 million shares for $537 million.
On April 11 RAI borrowed $750 million under its term loan agreement.
We continue to focus on maintaining a strong balance sheet with conservative debt levels.
I would also note that our pension plans remain well-funded currently at over 90%.
Reynolds American ended the quarter with $2.4 billion in cash balances.
In mid-April R.J.
Reynolds made its Master Settlement Agreement payment of $1.9 billion which included $469 million in disputed funds for the 2009 NPM Adjustment.
The company now has $3.4 billion in dispute related to the NPM Adjustments for the years 2003 through 2009.
I would note here that the arbitration proceedings are underway to resolve the dispute over the 2003 NPM Adjustment of $615 million.
We don't expect final resolution of the dispute this year.
So to conclude we remain confident in our ability to deliver adjusted earnings growth in the mid to high single digits this year while we continue to focus on opportunities to enhance shareholder value.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Tyrone would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Nik Modi of UBS.
This is actually Ben on behalf of Nik.
Dan you mentioned lower wholesale inventory levels hurt volumes this quarter.
What's driving that and should we expect that to rebalance later in the year? I think we would say that wholesale inventories are currently quite low.
We've sort of highlighted a 200 million year-on-year swing for us.
Our inventory is currently running 1.8 billion sticks.
And sequentially the -- if we take a look from end of year to the end of the first quarter our inventories were down 300 million.
It's -- I think it's fair to say that wholesalers can operate and can operate efficiently and effectively at the wholesale inventory levels that are there today.
But we have seen swings and often there's price speculation in the marketplace that actually takes inventories up over time.
But I would characterize inventories as being low but within acceptable range.
The next question is from Vivien Azer of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious about the market share gains for the Camel menthol styles which were really quite robust.
Would you be able to say parse out for us how much of those gains came from your core Camel Crush versus Camel Crush Bold? Vivien I don't have those exact numbers but if we take a look at the capsule technology the menthol sort of variance in Camel they accounted for 2.7 market share points during the quarter.
And they obviously account for the lions share of gains that we've had over the last year.
So I think doing very very well and obviously talking to the strength of innovation on the brand.
I think both Camel Crush Bold and the Camel Crush were actually up during the quarter and so both are contributing to growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a follow-up on that.
With respect to Camel Crush Bold can you give us a sense of the retail penetration for that product i.e.
is there a lot more shelf space to be gained or do you have full distribution at this point? Obviously full distribution I don't believe there is any products in the marketplace that are absolutely at 100% distribution.
But we are in national distribution.
We have significant distribution on the brand.
I think we're happy with the level of distribution we've been able to achieve on all of the menthol styles of the Camel family.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question.
With respect to dissolvables given some of the positive language that we saw out of TPSAC what would you guys need to hear from the FDA or see.
I don't know from further reports or research to get you to move to national distribution on the dissolvables? Well I think there is really a couple of ways to look at this.
One is obviously the regulatory environment which you've stated in your question.
I think what we would love to see is obviously some type of an ability to communicate a harm reduction message which we believe is warranted and we'd love to communicate.
But in addition to that obviously we continue to track consumer appeal and consumer acceptance of these types of products in the absence of being able to communicate that type of messaging to them.
The next question is from Christina McGlone of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I was on the contract manufacturing side you had been benefiting because of the sales to BAT and it looks like this quarter it actually hurt.
And I know we didn't lack the disasters from last year so I was wondering why that was down? And then I guess it will just -- it will be something that we need to adjust all year when we think about how to look at price mix? Yes I think first of all just talking about the contract manufacturing.
Obviously it drives some of the top line numbers but of course it is relatively low margin volume that we actually generate that way.
If we take a look at the domestic business I think the number that we actually track is net price realization.
And we track that obviously x contract manufacturing.
And in the first quarter we were up year-on-year by 3.3 percentage points.
So that's our net price realization a number that we're quite proud of.
And that actually backs out that contract manufacture impact that you talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then trying to get on the pricing for American Snuff I was trying to determine the contribution for Lane and it looked like price mix was down mid-single digits if you exclude Lane.
I don't know if that's right if you can shed any color there? This is Tom Christina.
At the operating income level Lane contributed $5 million.
And I would say that its margins were probably a bit less than right at about 15% so you can probably double that on the revenue line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then the pricing was down about mid-single digits I'm guessing and is that something we should think about for the rest of the year or can we see it start to come up particularly given that you have the retail contracts in place in the RJR sales force? The retail contracts really became effective on a broad basis and towards the middle to the end of March of last year I believe.
So we're actually -- by the second quarter we'll be lapping that.
It will be from a bit of a more normalized rate.
Research Division</strong> And then last question.
Dan last quarter you had talked about an estimate for state excise taxes in a $0.05 to $0.10 range.
And I'm curious if that's still what you're thinking and I don't know if there's any way to handicap California ahead of the proposition on early June.
To be very honest with you I don't like handicapping California.
That's obviously a difficult thing to do.
But I would say that our estimate on the state excise taxes it's still in that $0.05 to $0.10 range.
California were it to pass and we're obviously hopeful that it doesn't but would be a $0.07 national number.
In addition to that we have Missouri that's also a valid initiative that would contribute $0.03 nationally.
And then there's Illinois still out there at $0.02 and obviously Rhode Island but that's a rounding year.
So if all of it goes the wrong way we would be a little bit outside of that $0.05 to $0.10 range but we're quite confident in our ability to predict and so we'd be predicting that $0.05 to $0.10.
Our next question is from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan as you mentioned the promotional activity among second tier brands has been intense.
So I'm curious to hear if you'd seen these pressures easing or intensifying during this month? Yes I think the way I would kind of describe it it's obviously been a very intensely competitive quarter.
It's largely the line extensions of traditionally premium brands out there.
And I think the way I would describe the pressure is that part of it is the discount rates that are actually applied but part of it as well is the value-added promotions.
So these are actually the price offer or the cents off promotions that were done.
And in many cases this has driven significant amount of volume at or below Pall Mall's price.
And that's really sort of the shape and what hit quite a bit during the first quarter.
Obviously we're used to in our industry seeing these cycles come and go.
And I think to really predict what competition is going to be doing with their pricing is very difficult.
But we do see regular sort of ebbs and flows in the industry.
And I think the good news from our company point of view is we've done our full business analysis now.
We've done our restructuring.
It affords a significant additional flexibility going forward.
So I'm very confident in our ability to be able to react to any market circumstance that may present itself going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then it does sound like of course the intensity has continued.
So having said that because of your review how do you think about the balance then on Pall Mall meaning striking that right balance between increasing promotional spending behind the brand to maybe turn some of the volume declines around given also in thinking about the margins your margin is increasing during the quarter.
So do you think that you're going to work on achieving a better balance may be increasing promos behind Pall Mall and being comfortable in giving up some of the margin? The way I would describe it is this way we manage Pall Mall both for market share and for profitability.
And we look for an optimal balance between those 2.
If we take a look at the net price realization by brand I think Pall Mall is the only significant brand in the marketplace that actually had net price realization during the first quarter.
So that's a positive development on Pall Mall.
In terms of its interaction with competitive brands obviously Pall Mall it helped share year-on-year which I think is quite an achievement given the array of brands that are actually trying to track it down or that are actually trying to chase the volume down in the marketplace.
And so for us it's really it's about balancing that volume and that market share.
And having said that I think depending on what the promotional environment is but I'm quite confident in our ability to be able to continue to grow Pall Mall long-term.
And that largely comes down to the fundamental product differentiation that's there.
And we've talked about that before the longer-lasting proposition.
We still see significant level of the 50% stickiness on the brand of people actually converting into it upon trial.
But of course with so much pricing activity out there in the marketplace the number of new consumers actually trying the brand has decreased significantly given all the offers out there.
So I'm quite confident in our ability to continue to grow market share but obviously we'll do that in a profit-rational way.
LLC Research Division</strong> It now makes sense.
And then just maybe one final question on your strategy with Winston.
My understanding is that you have been promoting more heavily behind the brand possibly in an attempt to help fend off some of the pressure that Pall Mall is feeling.
I think it's yes.
I mean there's sort of a tactical activity going out -- going on on Winston as we speak.
But I'd also just highlight to the entire audience that Winston is not a national proposition.
So in certain geographies and in select geographies we do do some spend on Winston.
And that's in line with our portfolio strategy the one that we've outlined over time.
I mean it is a support brand for us.
It's not a growth brand for us here as we speak.
The next question is from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan the -- first let me ask you about the consumption.
What -- Where do you peg in the first quarter U.S.
cigarette consumption decline rates? Well if you take a look at the headline number as an industry it was down 4% so 4.0% year-on-year.
But inventory adjusted was down only 1.6%.
So that's the first quarter number.
I think we're still predicting for the year a number sort of in the 3% to 4% range.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing a similar type of adverse impact that you might have seen last year from roll-your-own pipe-your-own and cigars or has that moderated somewhat as some states have taken some action? I would say that obviously in some states in some of those states that have taken action we're seeing a slight moderation.
But in aggregate we're still seeing a similar kind of impact from those categories to what we saw last year.
Research Division</strong> And you think in the first quarter the moderation in the decline rate might be reflective of the promotional spending in the category? I think it's partly that.
So you see sort of a downtrading from a category point of view I just hasten to add not within our portfolio right? We're obviously quite -- we've actually seen some good gains in our mix.
But as a category in general I think when you compare year-on-year you see a relatively benign pricing environment.
And so you get -- the market will tend to go closer to its secular rates of decline without some of the price sensitivity of demand.
So of course when we do a prediction in terms of where the category might be for the year we would add in some of the potential pricing that might take place and some of the tax impacts as well.
Research Division</strong> And do you think your restructuring program to any extent affected your retail execution during the quarter? Not at all David.
In fact I think our retail execution during the quarter was very very was strong.
In fact when we take a look at the departments that were in scope and out of scope for this exercise the field efforts or the field sales was specifically and purposefully carved out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one finance question.
I think the K disclosed an intent to make a $309 million contribution to the pension program this year.
Is that still a valid number? And what contribution if any please was made during the first quarter? David this is Tom.
That is -- that was our estimate in the K and that is still in our plan.
We made no contributions at any size.
And when I say any size then I think that I'm not aware of anything more than $10 million in the first quarter.
We're waiting to see how the market performs.
I mean we're above 90% now and we'll take a closer look as we get towards the back half of the year which is frankly where we planned it and see where the discount rate is and see how our pension portfolio has performed over time.
As I've said I really would prefer and I'm trying not to overfund the pension plans but to keep it in the mid-90s.
And as we continue to be there we continue de-risking the plan.
Research Division</strong> And if you did $309 million that would all be tax-deductible? Yes it would.
The next question is from Mark O'Leary of CLSA[ph].
Just was wondering it looks like in your release you're not splitting out the Kodiak volumes anymore.
Is that -- does that reflect a de-emphasis of that brand or is there any strategy change there? The way I would describe the portfolio strategy at the American Snuff company is it's obviously largely about Grizzly in that portfolio.
Kodiak is a significant contributor but it tends to be more geographic in nature.
It's got its pockets of strength.
Kodiak for the first quarter it hit 3.5 market share points.
But really the company and the national effort is clearly focused on Grizzly.
Okay.
And then if I could just ask you a channel question if you get distribution in dollar stores would you have any different price that you would sell through there or would it be through the same wholesalers? And so if there's a different maybe consumer price it wouldn't affect anything of what you realized? No we have a standard pricing strategy to all channels.
Then of course there's wholesale markups before it hits retail.
But based on the shape of our supply chain I don't think they have a more advantageous starting point than other channels.
That's helpful.
And then one last one did you mention that private label volumes were part of your comparison? It looks like that they were the same year-over-year is that rounding or...
Yes our private label volumes are down to 0.1% so 0.1 of 1% for the quarter.
And they're largely irrelevant and they are a rounding error in terms of the total numbers.
Yes.
But then it was -- but it looks like it was the same as last year or did you say it was down? I think our volume -- our decline was 1.1% excluding the private label because we delisted those in the beginning of last year.
And so we'll -- they're pretty much gone at this point as Dan has indicated.
Our next question is from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan just in terms of market share performance for Camel and Pall Mall I know you gave us the year-over-year numbers but can you give us the sequential numbers of Q4 '11 versus Q1 because I think some of the numbers got restated so we don't have the historical numbers? Okay.
For Camel we had 8.4 in the first quarter.
And it was at 8.6 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Pall Mall was 8.5 for this quarter and was 8.7 in the fourth last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just going back to the question about the competitive environment I'm just looking at your pricing and clearly it sounds like and you've talked about Pall Mall's pricing up year-over-year or is the only brand that's gotten the net price realization.
But when you're maybe looking at the overall portfolio pricing sequentially it looks like it was relatively flattish.
Just given the mix benefit you would have had at Camel it just seems like 3.3% wasn't really that robust as what I would have anticipated.
So how are you sort of -- how would you kind of assess your promotional spending in Q1 outside of Pall Mall and some of Camel and some of the other brands? And in light of the competition do you think you've gotten enough payoff from your own spending and how you're thinking about as you think about adjusting your strategy for the balance of the year? First of all Judy the comment that I'd make is that I think 3.3% net price realization is actually quite a robust number.
Of course in the first quarter with the competitive promotional spend really heating up I think we partially reacted.
So I think you can think of promotional spend as sometimes being sort of offensive spend and sometimes defensive spend.
And I would say that the first quarter a lot of our spend was characterized more defensive in nature so that we were still able to generate net price realization.
Yes.
And so from that sense I think we found the right balance under the circumstances in the first quarter.
But again I think in terms of this restructure in this business in the analysis that we did it frees up significant resources for us so we have the flexibility to react to the environment as it unfolds for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with respect to your guidance if I sort of pick the midpoint of your guidance range it does imply a pretty nice acceleration for the balance of the year.
I think up 7% year-over-year just at the midpoint.
So just considering Q1 being down a little bit and I understand that there's some timing issues here but what sort of should drive that improvement for the balance of the year? Are you expecting the competitive intensity to remain at these levels or do you think that maybe you will get some relief in that sort of gives you the benefit of seeing some improvement and just for any other kind of factors timing-wise that we should think about for the balance of the year that could drive improvement year-over-year? I think the way I would describe it Judy is this way.
So we've really spent a lot of effort and time over the last quarter just looking at our flexibility going forward.
And I'm quite happy to report that we've been able to increase that flexibility.
And so it's very hard for me to predict where our competitors might want to take the market.
But I'm confident in our ability to compete going forward and to meet any and all competitive opportunities and threats out there.
Research Division</strong> And that's more of a 2012 comment? Because I mean the $25 million additional cost savings clearly is a nice benefit but relative to the out years it's not a huge number per se.
So I'm wondering if outside of that $25 million are you saying that there are other spots that you've identified and that sort of gives you more cushion in terms of really meeting the competitive environment? Yes Judy.
I've shared with you and with others in the past sort of the way we think about productivity.
Part of it is obviously what you read in the press releases which largely impacts sort of company footprint.
So let's say factories infrastructure and people.
But in addition to that there's significant savings and efficiencies that we generate from processes from the way we work from some of the tools and systems and so forth.
And also related in terms of the efficiency and effectiveness of our promotional spend and promotional dollars out there.
So of course you've quoted a number that was only related to the headcount impact but I would say that we have enough flexibility going forward to actually meet market needs and really to be able to address any market opportunity as and when they present themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And timing-wise just because you haven't completed the business review Q1 you really didn't have sort of the benefits of those findings? No actually there was a bit that was in there Judy but it will primarily be in quarters 2 building through to 4 of 2012.
Our next question is from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just some questions around the term loan borrowings that you referred to.
The 8-K indicated that it is repayable at any time without any sort of penalties.
Should we expect that these might -- these borrowings might be refinanced in the long-term debt market or is this something that we should expect will be paid down with cash? And then secondly can you also speak to your debt maturities this summer? You have about $450 million in debt that comes due in June should we expect that to be refinanced as well or should we think about that being paid down? Okay.
Well the term loan that we drew down in April we would expect to pay that off in cash later this year without the benefit of any long-term borrowings.
We would -- we are looking to do something in the debt market potentially later in the year and we'll talk more about that when it's time to talk about that.
With respect to the $450 million that's coming in June we will pay that off in cash and some of that cash is coming from the term loan.
So that will take care of that and the cash needs.
As you know our business generates a lot of cash in every single month with the exception of April when we make our MSA payments.
So we will build cash after the 15th and we'll be in pretty good shape by the -- in terms of having cash to pay all this stuff off by the late third quarter.
Our next question is from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess obviously Camel growth has been very strong and Camel menthol share gain is obviously been the driver.
The flip side is it understandably Camel non-menthol share performance has been down a little? I guess the question is understanding of course menthol is a very good place to be but from a category perspective is there a level at which you're uncomfortable with some of the share side you see in Camel non-menthol or do you really have to think about that brand more holistically and not really parse it out between menthol and non-menthol? Chris maybe just to the first part of your question obviously there is menthol and there is non-menthol and the total adds up to the entire brand.
So I think it's fair to say that menthol accounts for more than 100% of the total growth on the brand and which means that the non-menthol styles have come down somewhat over time.
But we really look at the Camel proposition as a total brand.
And really I think this argues to the strength of the total Camel proposition.
Now if we take a look at the adult smoker under 30 segment we see that segment becoming more and more menthol over time.
So that within the total Camel proposition that the menthol styles grow and that some of the non-menthol styles decline over time is really reflective of consumer needs and consumer desires and their product choice.
So I think we're quite pleased with the total proposition on Camel really driven by the innovation that we've developed in terms of the menthol capsule technology and feel really good about its performance and its potential long-term.
The next question is from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan I always appreciate your insight into consumer behavior or purchase patterns.
I was just curious in the first quarter what you're seeing from consumer purchase patterns.
Are they staying within premium and discount or moving around or looking for more promotions? Can you just address some of that? And then as that relates to the historical elasticity model? Okay.
I think first of all when we think about sort of the consumer dynamics out there I think it's fair to say that there is still some downtrading going on in the category.
I wouldn't characterize that as being at historic highs or anything but we're still seeing some consumer downtrading happening.
And I think it's important to kind of look at that dynamic and see what's happening because I believe that there is 2 impacts there.
One is obviously what's happening from consumer point of view gas prices are high and so forth they have shock at the pump and when they walk into the store they might be a bit more price-sensitive at that moment in time.
But having said that also if you take a look at the behavior of the manufacturers within the category there's a lot of pricing activity going on.
A lot of sort of deal mentality out there and really a lot of focus on the bottom end of the category.
So I wonder if and this is just a question right? Because I'm not sure if there's a good and easy way to actually identify the answer to that but I wonder if part of the consumer downtrading is actually not manufacturer lag because of all the activity going on.
And so I think that probably -- the balance between those things is probably a fairly significant driver in the category.
You also asked me about the price sensitivity of demand I think it comes back.
If we take a look at the total cigarette industry we see the headline number of 4% of volume decrease in terms of industry volume.
But when we adjust for inventories it's down only 1.6%.
And that's not too far off actually the secular rate of decline.
We haven't seen significant on average in the category significant price increases over the last 12 months.
So if you take a look at the price sensitivity of demand and the model as we construct it which is based on the secular decline plus the 0.35 price sensitivity demand sort of in broad strokes holding true in the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then if I could just ask a question and it relates in Q1 you just had Camel and then in Q4 you had Camel [indiscernible] filter did you change what you're including in that Camel number? If I missed this I apologize.
Yes.
I think from a Camel point of view you're right that in the past we've had -- we've talked about Camel and we've talked about Camel x non-filter.
We've actually just for simplicity reasons just listed Camel and we'll only list Camel going forward.
The x non-filters so basically the filterless style out of that is very small from a volume entry point.
I think it's about 0.1 so we decided just to include it all and talk about the total Camel proposition.
Our next question is from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to quickly follow up on Anne's question about the downtrading.
Dan I'm surprised you said there's still downtrading in the industry.
When I look at the numbers that you've put out for the last 4 quarters it looks like there is a shift back to premium products again now.
I think Thilo if you actually want to look at the category it depends on what your definition of premium is and it depends on what your definition of value is within the category.
We tend to measure that really based on actual consumer prices paid.
And that would lead to the conclusion that value line extensions off of premium brands are clearly in the value category rather than in the premium category.
And when you add that volume actually in the value category you'll see that the lower priced options out there in the marketplace continue to grow.
And so we would characterize that as being downtrading within the category.
And that leads to our conclusion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So in other words the uptrading as the numbers suggest is uptrading to discounted premium brands and therefore doesn't really qualify as uptrading? Yes I mean let me put it in a more stark kind of way for you.
If a consumer say a Pall Mall consumer actually can buy a value line extension of a premium brand at a price that's lower than what he's paying for Pall Mall it would be hard to call that uptrading because he's paying less.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just have one more question I apologize if you've addressed this already I jumped on a little late.
But I think the pricing for RJRT was among the slowest in several years.
What's your outlook for pricing in the entire cigarette category going forward? Will pricing become more challenging? Obviously it's very hard for me to speculate on future price increases for obvious reasons.
I think we are proud in the sort of the environment that we're in of actually having achieved 3.3% net price realization.
And we'll have to see how the future evolves and what pricing opportunities exist out there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're not going to make a guess of the promotional environment will change and how the consumer strength or weakness will impact pricing outlook? No I think for obvious reasons I'm not going to guess on that side.
I can only go as far as to tell you what I think is going to happen from a state excise tax point of view which obviously impacts consumer prices but not from a manufacturer or from our own intent point of view.
This ends the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference.
I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any additional questions feel free to contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by and welcome to the Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference may be recorded.
And now it's my pleasure to turn the floor over to Morris Moore Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the second quarter and first half as well as our outlook for the balance of the year.
As usual our discussions will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased with the resilience that RAI and its operating companies demonstrated in the second quarter given the significant challenges they faced.
As our results show today our businesses remain sharply focused on balancing market share and profitability and these efforts help drive RAI's earnings and margins higher in the quarter.
Despite the ongoing and tense competitive promotional activity and the weak economy's drag on consumer buying power R.J.
Reynolds delivered solid performance on its key brands.
And once again the results were excellent at American Snuff and Santa Fe.
Both companies continued to build outstanding momentum and I'm pleased to report that all 3 operating companies delivered higher adjusted earnings and margins in the second quarter.
And at RAI we again delivered additional value to our shareholders with a dividend increase of 5.4% in May.
No doubt the rest of the year will have its challenges but with a solid first half now under our belt we're confident about our ability to meet our objectives.
And we're reaffirming our full year earnings outlook of mid- to high single-digits adjusted earnings growth.
So that's a quick look at our overall performance.
Now before Tom and I talk about the second quarter I'd like to update you briefly on some new product innovations our companies have been working on.
We've got some really exciting things in the works.
For some years now you watched us grow into a total tobacco company offering a broader range of products at different price points in line with changing trends in the preferences of adult tobacco consumers and in societal expectations.
Our operating companies have been leading industry innovation with the development of highly differentiated and successful products like Camel Crush and Camel SNUS.
And we continue to work on refining and improving Camel's line of dissolvable products.
In line with our long-term strategy to transform the tobacco industry and reduce the harm caused by smoking our companies have also been hard at work on developing a pipeline of new smokeless and other product innovation.
These products cover a broad spectrum including heat-not-burn cigarettes vapor tobacco extract products and nicotine replacement therapy technologies.
We believe there is significant growth potential in these new product formats and we believe that our expertise and proprietary technology will give us a competitive edge.
For starters RAI's Niconovum subsidiary has been exploring new markets and products in nicotine replacement therapy.
Niconovum plans to enter its first U.S.
market later this quarter offering a new gum product under the Zonnic brand name for adult smokers who are interested in quitting.
So these are some areas in which our companies are developing new product innovation as they continue to position themselves for long-term growth.
RAI's vision is to achieve market leadership by driving innovation throughout its businesses and redefining enjoyment for adult tobacco consumers.
For competitive reasons we've been keeping some of our product innovation cards a bit close to our chest but many investors and analysts have been asking what our plans are in the emerging tobacco products area.
We wanted to assure you that not only do we intend to compete in this area but we also believe the product development we have underway will truly deliver against adult tobacco consumer expectations.
Now let's take a look at our operating companies' performance.
As I've already discussed the quarter was marked by intense competitive activity with promotions and discounting on value-priced line extensions on competitive premium brands.
This impacted R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter shipment volume which declined 6.7% from the prior year quarter.
I would note that these declines were mainly on the company's non-focus value brands.
This performance compares with an industry decline of 1.7%.
However when adjusted for wholesale inventory changes the industry was down 2%.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 8.4 billion units at the end of the second quarter down about 1.5 billion from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' wholesale inventories of approximately 2.2 billion were down only 100 million units.
R.J.
Reynolds' adjusted operating income increased slightly from the prior year quarter on higher pricing and productivity gains as well as an improved premium mix.
These factors also significantly benefited the company's adjusted operating margin which jumped more than 2 percentage points to 33%.
Turning to market share.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter cigarette market share was 26.2% down 1.4 percentage points.
This decline was also driven by the non-focus value brands.
R.J.
Reynolds' growth brands Camel and Pall Mall delivered a combined market share of 16.7%.
This was down a modest 0.2 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
Camel performed well despite the difficult market for premium-priced products and intense competitive promotional activity.
The brand's second quarter market share declined slightly to 8.3%.
However Camel share of the true premium-priced segment jumped significantly in the quarter.
Camel which is celebrating its 99th birthday this year continues to make substantial progress in the menthol cigarette category with the brand's menthol styles gaining 0.5 a percentage point of market share from the prior year quarter.
The use of R.J.
Reynolds' innovative capsule technology and the recent expansion of Camel Crush Bold are strengthening the brand's position in the premium menthol category.
Camel's first smoke-free product Camel SNUS had another great quarter now holds more than 75% of the growing snus category.
Camel SNUS offers 6 styles in the recent expansion of its mint offering that further strengthens the brand's performance.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to focus on building the brand equity of Camel SNUS as a convenient spit-free option for adult tobacco consumers.
As I mentioned earlier Camel SNUS is an innovation that forms part of our transforming tobacco strategy and I'm pleased with the way the market is responding.
Turning to Pall Mall.
Pall Mall which saw tremendous growth in recent years has drawn intense competition from other value brands as well as from value-priced line extensions of competitive premium brands that sell at or below Pall Mall's price.
This impacted the brand's market share in the second quarter and Pall Mall declined 0.2 of a percentage point.
However Pall Mall's performance strengthened as we moved through the quarter and competitive promotional levels moderated slightly.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to focus on building Pall Mall while balancing the brand's share and profitability.
Pall Mall has built its own brand equity as the brand that will always be there to provide a longer-lasting cigarette at an affordable price day in and day out.
And R.J.
Reynolds believes that equity and product differentiation will continue to resonate with adult tobacco consumers especially in today's weak economy.
Turning to the moist-snuff business.
I must say that American Snuff performed extremely well this quarter.
It's also operating in a very competitive environment and the company's key initiatives are really paying off.
American Snuff delivered substantially higher operating income and margin as the company's flagship brand Grizzly drove higher moist-snuff volume and pricing.
American Snuff's second quarter shipment volume increased 10.7% from the prior year quarter which was more than double the industry's growth rate.
And American Snuff also increased its moist-snuff market share which rose nearly 2 percentage points from the prior year quarter to more than 32%.
The Grizzly brand which is at the core of this powerful performance is benefiting from the brand's equity enhancements.
The brand is also benefiting from the investment in retail contracts and expertise from the larger sales force at R.J.
Reynolds which serves American Snuff.
Grizzly increased second quarter shipment volume by over 12% and the brand's market share increased by 2 percentage points to 29%.
The brand saw outstanding growth in its pouch style which captured 70% of all pouch style growth.
The company's focus on Grizzly's natural style offers good growth potential as the brand is underrepresented in these styles.
Grizzly has recently introduced new packaging to better convey the premium quality and value of Grizzly's premium natural styles.
And I'm happy to say that based on the performance of Grizzly naturals their strategy is working.
So it's clear that American Snuff is making great progress and I'm confident that the company's strategies are laying the groundwork for continued success.
Moving on to Santa Fe where results were once again impressive.
The company reported an increase of over 25% in operating income in the second quarter driven by volume growth of almost 10% on its super premium Natural American Spirit brand.
And in market share Natural American Spirit gained 0.2 of a percentage point from the prior quarter to 1.1%.
I'd remind you that this brand is undiscounted yet has posted consistent volume and share growth every year since Santa Fe was founded in 1982.
Natural American Spirit continues to enhance its retail presence and has built an extremely loyal franchise with its unique additive-free and organic tobacco offerings.
So to wrap up RAI's operating companies again demonstrated their strength and resilience and are successfully managing through a challenging environment.
They're also focused on building and strengthening their key platforms and innovations for long-term growth.
And we're very excited about the new initiative on the horizon.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American delivered solid results in the second quarter and first half despite the challenges and we remain on track to deliver our adjusted EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01 for 2012.
This excludes charges for the Engle progeny lawsuits and the restructuring.
I will remind you that the workforce restructuring will generate savings of about $25 million this year and those savings will increase to about $70 million a year in 2015.
Reynolds American's second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.79 up 11.3% from the prior year quarter.
Adjusted results exclude the charge of $0.01 per share for the Engle progeny litigation.
That brought the first half adjusted EPS to $1.41 up 4.4% from the prior year period.
These adjusted results also exclude a charge of $0.16 per share for the restructuring and prior year charges for implementation costs and the Scott lawsuit as well as a small gain for tax items.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was $0.78 up 39.3% from the prior year quarter.
First half reported EPS was $1.24 up 2.5%.
The company delivered strong growth and adjusted operating margin in the second quarter gaining 2.4 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 34.2%.
Now turning to our operating companies.
As I review the individual operating companies' performance I'll focus on adjusted results to provide perspective on their underlying businesses.
Starting with R.J.
Reynolds.
The company's second quarter adjusted operating income increased slightly from the prior year quarter to $604 million with higher pricing and productivity gains offsetting cigarette volume declines and increased promotional spending.
Adjusted results exclude a charge of $10 million related to the Engle progeny litigation.
The pricing gains together with the improvements in the company's premium mix and productivity led to an increase of 2.3 percentage points in adjusted operating margin bringing it to 33%.
For the first half of the year R.J.
Reynolds' adjusted operating income was just over $1.1 billion in line with the prior year period.
First half adjusted results exclude the litigation charge I mentioned as well as a restructuring charge of $138 million.
Despite the highly competitive market R.J.
Reynolds kept the tight focus on balancing profitability and share and this allowed it to report a solid increase in its first half adjusted operating margin which was up 1.7 percentage points from the prior year period at 32.3%.
Turning to our moist-snuff business which continues to show great momentum.
American Snuff increased its second quarter operating income by 18.4% from the prior year quarter to $95 million and the company's operating margin rose 3.2 percentage points to 55.4%.
For the first half adjusted operating income was up 6.8% from the prior year period at $179 million.
This comparison reflects the impact of the sale of Lane last year and the investments in retail moist-snuff contracts.
American Snuff's first half operating margin was 54.3% up 2 percentage points.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
Volume and pricing gains drove Santa Fe's second quarter operating income up by 25.9% from the prior year quarter to $64 million and the company's second quarter operating margin increased to almost 50%.
For the first half of 2012 Santa Fe's operating income was up 17% at $109 million and the company's operating margin increased 1.5 percentage points to 47.5%.
So that wraps up our operating performance.
Now I'd like to touch on some of Reynolds American's other financial highlights which speak to our strong balance sheet and commitment to shareholders.
RAI ended the second quarter with cash balances of $1 billion and that was after repaying $450 million in debt that matured in June.
RAI continues to maintain modest debt levels and a conservative leverage ratio of 1.3x debt-to-EBITDA.
I would also note that our pension plan remains well funded currently at about 90%.
As part of RAI's $2.5 billion share repurchase program initiated late last year the company repurchased 6.1 million shares for $250 million in the second quarter at an average cost of $41.12 per share.
That brought our total repurchases to date to 19.2 million shares for a total of $788 million.
In conclusion RAI remains committed to enhancing shareholder value and one way we do that is through our attractive dividend.
To that end RAI increased its dividend by 5.4% in the second quarter to an annualized rate of $2.36 per share.
RAI shares currently deliver a yield of over 5%.
While the rest of the year remains challenging we're pleased with our results through the first half and we're confident of meeting our adjusted EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Huey will you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first questioner in queue is Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on the -- your new non-combustible innovation that you talked about.
It sounds like your strategy is to pursue these opportunities organically.
I guess I'm curious would you consider acquisitions and/or partnership? And also would you consider leveraging some of your existing brands for this technology? Or are you going to be developing new ones? Bonnie I think first of all I would describe our innovations effort as really being across multiple platforms so we continue to innovate within the cigarette category but also within moist-snuff and then obviously moving on from there into snus dissolvables heat-not-burn as well vapor and even nicotine products in the name of nicotine replacement therapies.
And I think really within that I think we have a good organic development program within our R&amp;D.
But of course we also look externally and I think all those options are open to us as we sit here today.
And in terms of your thoughts about partnership I think that is certainly something that has come to mind as we've navigated this environment and particularly on the international side where we keep looking for opportunities to monetize some of our innovations internationally.
I think from the branding side of things I think those are things that we continue to think about how we come to market.
And I would say the answer is a little bit different depending on which platforms we're talking about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay Dan that's helpful.
And just a follow-on to that.
I'm curious also at retail what you're noticing or hearing from the retailers in terms of space allocation as you're seeing a lot of these subcategories exploding whether it be snus dissolvables smokeless and of course the e-cig.
Are they allocating more space to some of these newer categories? And if so is the cigarette category losing real estate? I'm just trying to understand some of the dynamics from your perspective at retail.
Yes I would describe it this way Bonnie.
There obviously is a heightened sort of focus on this from -- in the retail environment.
I think if you look at the different categories today some of the retailers have it placed sort of fragmented in different places in their stores where they might have moist-snuff in one area and then some of the other tobacco categories somewhere else in the store or behind the counter.
And I think there's more and more of the retailers are sort of beginning to line it all up on the back bar and beginning to consolidate some of these categories.
And I think it's -- some of the more progressive thinking I've seen out there is to actually create a home for all these alternative tobacco products that really includes all those categories that you mentioned.
So we have not noticed any significant reduction in space allocation to combustibles or to the smokeless categories.
So I think it's just an emerging kind of trend to put all these products together on the back bar.
Our next questioner in the queue is Vivien Azer with Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with the margin expansion posted in the RJR T segment.
Given how robust it was can you give us a sense of the kind of the components of that price versus mix versus cost savings? Yes I think there's a number of different areas that came into play here Vivien.
I think first of all from a net price realization and we calculate this x the contract manufacturer because that obviously has some -- its own year-on-year dynamics.
But from a net price realization we had 2.8% in the second quarter.
And then also from a mix perspective what you see is we saw Camel do relatively well relative to premium sales of our competitors.
In fact when we looked at Camel performance for the quarter and if we were to define it on really what consumers pay so the true premium category Camel's share of that segment was actually up 0.5 share point in the quarter.
So there is a mix impact relative to our competitors that way as well.
And then of course the rest is coming through from cost savings and good cost management throughout the company.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
It's encouraging to hear that you said some of the market shares for your brands sort of improved over the course of the quarter after Marlboro Black rolled off their promo.
But I'm curious what -- did you guys experience any disruption as Altria implemented the new Marlboro architecture at retail? No.
I mean I would kind of describe the retail environment this way.
There's continual sort of month-to-month quarter-to-quarter kind of toing and froing in terms of space allocation at retail.
I would say that it wasn't significant in terms of the impact on us.
And when I look at the retail environment I'm happy with the amount of space that we have and that we have enough real estate at retail to be able to communicate our brands properly and display the brands and frankly get the price communication and equity communication that we need to support our brands properly.
Next questioner in queue is Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> On the cigarette category overall I mean obviously it's a heated competitive environment.
I think you guys have definitely talked about that.
But I thought you said that Pall Mall started to improve at the end of the quarter and maybe competitive levels of spending started to ease up a little bit.
Is that right and can you elaborate a little bit? Yes.
What we really say is during the quarter I think we -- it's fair to say that Pall Mall ended the quarter in a better place than it entered the quarter on certainly from a market share point of view.
And I think 2 things really happened that I think were significant during the quarter is one obviously there was a price increase that competition took that we took as well during the quarter.
And secondly the promotional environment it did ease off.
Now I think we need to characterize that.
I would still characterize it even at the end of the quarter as being highly competitive but it did reduce slightly in the month of May.
Research Division</strong> And do you get the sense that that's a sort of a sustainable easing or does it look more like a blip on the radar screen? Well I think time will obviously tell with that.
And I think really when we start looking at the promotions out there there's 2 things going on.
There's regular discounting that happens on brands.
Then of course there's sort of pre-priced promotions that go into the marketplace.
And I think I would describe it on both fronts as still being highly competitive but it was on the regular discounting of some competitive brands that we saw slight easing in the month of May.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just I guess trying to get a feel for how you're feeling about market share in general.
I guess the shares are falling I guess probably a little bit more than you might have anticipated given the level of competition but the share losses notably are not coming from Camel and Pall Mall in any material way.
So I guess the question is is there a greater tolerance to give up some share at the nongrowth brands? I guess when do you get to a point where you need to react or are you not thinking about it that way on those nongrowth brands? Yes the way I would describe it is at the end promotional dollars are investment dollars and the return on investment is a little bit different depending on what brand is in what category.
Certainly for Camel and Pall Mall there's a good long-term sort of sustainable return on that investment.
When we look at the nongrowth brands what you see is they have older -- on average older consumer franchises slightly more price-sensitive consumers.
And so the investment decision that you make on those is slightly different.
Now I do think it's fair to say that we again also saw some improvement in trend on those brands throughout the quarter and we do selectively support in certain geographies to reduce levels but we do selectively support some of those brands.
So I'm actually happy with the profile of the company through the quarter and that things were improving slightly on these nongrowth brands by the end of the quarter.
Next questioner in queue is Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Margot Schacter in for Thilo.
Most of our questions are actually addressed already.
But the press release talks about your conservative leverage on the balance sheet.
And I was just wondering what would compel you guys to go from a more aggressive leverage target.
Well I mean part of it is I mean we will be looking to the markets to refinance some debt that's coming due next year and so we're going to be looking at that as we move in to the second half of the year.
And then if there's other need for cash that would also compel us to access the debt market.
At this point we actually have a pretty favorable rate on average.
It's about 5.4% and we've got as I said about $685 million that's coming due next year and we'll be refinancing that at favorable rates.
Next questioner in queue is Andrew Kieley with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dan just going back to the broad sort of pricing and promotional environment I guess your commentary earlier it sounds like sequentially a little bit better than things were in the first quarter mostly on the -- in terms of competitor activity.
Are you seeing any improvement in terms of the actual consumer activity and down trading within the categories? Has that gotten better at all in terms of going from premium to discount products? Here's the way I would kind of describe it.
I think there is still pressure that way from the consumer.
But frankly in my mind I think we've kind of reached a point where I believe some of the down trading is actually going on.
And of course this is an area where reasonable minds can disagree but I believe part of it now is also manufacturer-led as there's a lot of price competition on the marketplace.
There's a lot of promotions out there.
And so it becomes pretty hard to discern what's driving what.
Is it the consumer looking for lower-priced options or is it that there's still many low-priced options available and so much attention drawn to them out at retail that manufacturers are kind of aiding and abetting if you want in some of these down-trading trends.
But I do think that we've reached a point where certainly the growth rates at the bottom end of the market for products that are lower-priced seems to be moderating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just given how intense promotions remain are you still happy with the positioning of Pall Mall? I mean is there any thought to altering promotional strategy on that brand or EDLP contracts or any adjustment from that brand? Yes.
I think -- here's the way I would kind of describe Pall Mall.
Pall Mall is really a fantastic brand.
It's really built up its equity over time and it's very strong in terms of the product differentiation it has out there with the longer-lasting cigarette which makes it quite unique in the marketplace.
And we continue to see a very high level of conversion from trial to basic adoption.
Now what's really happened and what's changed in the marketplace is that because there's so many low-priced offers particularly from other premium brands in the marketplace what we're actually seeing currently is the amount of new trialists out there for the brand has gone down significantly over time.
And so really I think the strategic imperative that we have as a company is to reinitiate some of that trial.
And that doesn't mean that Pall Mall needs to be the lowest-priced option in every store every day but it does mean that we need to roll out trial-generating activities.
And that can be done in a number of different ways.
And I'll give you an example of some of the more recent activities that are rolling out to retail as we speak.
One is for example offering pre-priced promotions in limited quantities in select stores across the country.
Why? Because it gets competitive activity and we just need to build up the level of trial knowing that we're going to get 50% retention rate when that happens.
The other sort of mechanisms that we've used is direct mail and we've also used consumer engagement.
So there's a number of different mechanisms that we're deploying and have been deploying over the last quarter to actually restimulate trial.
And I think that strategy is working for us and we see kind of the sequential kind of improvement throughout the quarter as we've deployed some of these new iterations of our strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me was just in terms of the cigarette category outlook just your thoughts with closing of the pipe tax loophole and the better state tax environment so far this year.
Is that sort of positively changing how you're thinking about category growth on volume? Yes.
I mean here's the way the kind of saw the entire category.
I think for the quarter and if we take a look you obviously have the headline numbers in terms of cigarette industry we believe it's down 1.7%.
But when we adjust for wholesale inventories and I just put the emphasis there on wholesale inventories only the category was down about 2%.
Now we continue to predict for the year that it's going to be down sort of in that 3% to 4% kind of range.
But I think embedded within that number is the more benign taxation environment that you've talked about.
Obviously the big wild card out there on the SET front was the California ballot initiative where we had a great run and a great result which obviously makes that quite a positive impact to total category volume.
So all in all I think we're predicting that 3% to 4% kind of range for this year.
Next questioner in queue is Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just 2 quick questions.
One is if you look at the underlying consumption declines of the cigarette category it seems to actually have been moderating over the past few quarters.
I'm just curious on your views on that.
And the second question is is there any update on this whole Star Scientific patent dispute? I know it's gone kind of back and forth.
I'm just curious where we stand on that particular topic.
Yes I think first of all on the -- if I just cover off the Star side of things.
I think really what's happening there is if you take a look at the original kind of trials that actually happened there is we frankly got a good result.
We were found to not be in infringement of the patents although the patents were actually upheld and that's actually what we're appealing is whether those patents are actually valid.
There is a process of mediation going through but we're vigorously defending our rights on that front.
So I don't think there's any new news on that front but we're very happy and very confident in our legal position.
And Nik could you remind me what the first part of your question was? Research Division</strong> The first one is just on the cigarette decline rate has been moderating.
Any views on that kind of what you think is driving that? Yes.
I think really what we see is a relatively benign taxation environment which obviously has had an impact.
We see sort of no change in the historical price sensitivity of demand across the category.
And then I think the thing that we'll be keeping a keen eye on over the coming months is actually what's happening with the whole roll-your-own pipe-your-own kind of category.
We are getting reports at retail of some of these stores actually closing down or closing down that part of their operation.
I'm not quite sure yet and we're not seeing back in the numbers yet exactly where those consumers might move.
They are obviously very price-sensitive smokers but very hopeful that they'll come back into the manufactured cigarette category.
Next questioner in queue is Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan I was wondering if you could help me understand.
I continue to see share loss for you and I know you're working on the portfolio mix and eliminating underperforming lines.
But can you help me kind of as to where this goes or where we should maybe see an inflection point in terms of share performance? Yes I think the way I would describe it is this way Ann.
Is I think first of all if I take the growth portfolio I look at Camel.
I think it's fundamentally healthy.
We have a fantastic portfolio in Camel.
It's got fundamentally strong and strengthening consumer demographic.
A lot of that is driven by innovation.
The capsule part of the Camel brand and those of the menthol styles and the switch in both product is actually up 0.5 share point year-on-year.
And of course we defined that category as being -- sort of that it competes against us being the true premium segment.
And really we carve out the premium value segment so lower-priced line extensions of other premium brands.
And when we look at it that way we see Camel actually growing within that category also up 0.5 share point when measured that way.
I think Pall Mall I've addressed in my earlier comment but again it's fundamentally a well-positioned brand with product differentiation on it.
Then when we take a look at the sort of collective nongrowth brands out there I think we see some sequential improvement in Winston's performance.
It's being supported selectively in select geographies.
And I think really the brand that I would focus on within that category that's having a particularly difficult time in today's pricing environment is actually Doral which is a value brand out in the marketplace with very price-sensitive consumers.
A lot of that volume earlier on went to Pall Mall and currently has a fair amount of interaction with some of these premium value line extensions on competition.
So I'm actually feeling quite confident across the portfolio that we will continue to see improvement in trend as we move forward.
And Ann what I would add to that is that as we look -- I mean we do provide as Dan said some pricing support on these nongrowth brands.
But within that -- within those nongrowth brands we look at them as the premium brands and also as value brands.
And clearly because of the price points and the margins that are involved there that drives some of our pricing decision as to how much to put on those individual brands and therefore may drive performance or lack thereof.
Next questioner in queue is David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan I'm curious.
Do you agree with the characterization that your response to higher competitive activity to date has been fairly restrained? Yes.
I would say that it's been more restrained than the aggressiveness that we've seen from some of our competitors.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And what would cause you to become more forceful? Well I think really we look at the marketplace and we're trying to balance our profitability and market share performance.
And of course we look at our investment decisions from our optic and from our point of view.
I think we have the right strategies in place to really generate a sustainable long-term growth and balance out all the factors sort of impacting our business.
So I'm confident in our sort of current stance in the marketplace.
And we're just not looking just to buy market share.
It's really about finding the right balance in our business going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the RJR Tobacco business during the quarter in terms of the cost it looks like the controllable cost per pack might have been down 9% or 10%.
And I'm just curious were there any timing dynamics that flattered the cost structure this quarter? Or is that a sustainable normalized cost base? David let me just answer the question this way.
There's nothing that comes to mind during the quarter that was particularly out of line from what we would expect to see in a normal quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question Dan on the smokeless business and it has to do with the pricing you implemented I guess 1 month or 6 weeks ago.
Over the last several years you took $0.10 a can on Grizzly and you took $0.10 a can -- if competition wasn't raising price you took $0.10 a can some years your competition was reducing prices.
This year competition went up $0.05 and you only went up $0.05.
And I'm just curious why do you keep up the prior cadence in light of the continued strong marketplace performance of the brand? Yes I think David it's an excellent question.
I think really you need to look at pricing over the long term in terms of what we're actually able to generate.
Don't forget that what's actually changed over the last couple of years is that there are now similar to cigarettes but also in moist-snuff now we see value-priced line extensions of what were historically premium brands.
And so obviously we look at the competitive dynamics.
We measure relative price-sensitivity demand of the brand.
And I think really if we take a look at what we've been able to achieve on that side of the business both from a margin growth point of view which is very substantial in the second quarter we had slightly over 55% operating margins at American Snuff company which year-over-year is up almost 3 points.
So I'm very happy with kind of the evolution of the operating income growth the operating margin the adjusted operating margin growth.
And I think relative to competition that business is doing extremely well both from a volumetric point of view but also from a financial point of view.
Next questioner in queue is Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Few clarifying questions.
So Dan just in terms of the industry decline so in 2Q you said category was down 2% if you adjust for the wholesale inventory movement.
Are you looking for the industry to be still down 3% to 4% for the full year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I'm just wondering just given some of the positive dynamics we've talked about with the taxes and so forth why not a better consumption decline expectation for the full year at this point in the year? Yes Judy.
I think it's -- I mean we'll obviously need to see what the future brings and obviously reasonable minds can disagree in terms of longer-term estimates.
But I do think we have some smaller excise increases flowing through.
There was some industry pricing that happened more recently.
And of course what we're not factoring into our estimate at this stage is to see -- because we don't know what the full impact is going to be yet any impact we might see from the recent legislation federal legislation passed on the pipe-your-own category.
So these were the actual machines sitting at retail where consumers can roll their own cigarettes.
So I think time will tell.
But I think that 3% to 4% kind of estimate is a reasonable estimate at this juncture.
Research Division</strong> But that would still imply the back half decline of like 4% or 5% just given the year-to-date performance for the industry as a whole.
Yes.
Potentially Judy as I said I think time will tell on this front as these different factors begin to get applied to the category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just following up on Camel.
So just in terms of the non-menthol performance and I recognize that you've done really well with the menthol side of that brand.
But just in terms of the non-menthol can you just help us understand kind of what's going on there both from a competitive perspective and then any other initiatives that you might have in place to improve that brand? Or are you just really looking at the Camel holistically including menthol and the modest share loss at this point in 2Q is still encouraging in light of what you saw competitively? Yes.
I think we look at the brand holistically obviously because there are some consumers that prefer menthol and some that don't.
But I think -- and you're right on sort of the -- your observation about Camel Capsule is doing extremely well in the marketplace.
I think the other thing maybe to think about from a brand dynamic point of view is the demographics of the brand and particularly ASU30 the adult smoker under 30 which is increasingly in that segment that demographic increasingly looking for menthol or mentholated cigarettes.
And so when we take a look -- and Camel does very well amongst that segment.
And as more and more of those opt for menthol cigarettes I think Camel is very well positioned particularly with its Capsule innovations.
So I would look at it sort of from that point of view holistically doing well and particularly doing well amongst that younger adult demographic where increasingly those consumers are opting for menthol.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly sort of following up on the cost question.
So SG&amp;A in the quarter was down I think 10% or so.
I'm just wondering just in terms of the run rate so if you look at just year-over-year down about $38 million or so year-over-year.
And sort of on an absolute basis is there any kind of variabilities in the out quarters where that could affect the SG&amp;A expenses? Because it seems like that's a pretty reasonable run rate to use at least for the second quarter for the balance of the year.
Judy are you looking at the -- our financial statements in Schedule 1? If you're comparing the $325 million to the $488 million...
Research Division</strong> No.
I'm adjusting last year's numbers.
I'm looking at $320 million versus like $358 million.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I mean it's still kind of a meaningful decline I understand.
I know you have obviously some cost savings in place.
So I'm just wondering how much of maybe some of those cost savings were realized in the quarter and is there more to go the balance of the year? Or is this sort of $320 million kind of a good run rate for the balance of the year? It's probably going to come down a bit from that.
Our cost savings as you know from the business review we concluded that towards the end of the first quarter.
And so we saw a very modest amount of cost savings that flowed through this quarter and we would expect the vast majority of that $25 million to occur in the back half of the year.
Additionally we saw our litigation expense that you'll see when we publish our Q in the next day or so has come down by about $10 million quarter-over-quarter as we've been more efficient in the defense of our smoking and health litigation.
And then there's just a bunch of smaller items that are in there.
So there isn't any one big item to point to.
Just effective cost management.
[Operator Instructions] Next questioner in queue is Vivien Azer with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick question about the Niconovum gum products that you're launching in the U.S.
Can you speak a little bit to kind of the scope or the scale of the distribution? Is it going national? What are the price points look like relative to competitive products and what's the margin structure on a product like that? Yes.
I think -- let me describe a little bit what the effort is going to be is.
We're actually planning to run a lead market in Des Moines Iowa.
And I think what we're looking at is to bring it from a pricing point of view roughly in line with premium price cigarettes on a unit equivalent.
I think really we're trying to get some good consumer learnings out there as we enter this category for the first time here in the U.S.
and obviously trying to apply a lot of the expertise and learning that Niconovum has acquired over the years in Scandinavia.
So I think it's an exciting effort on our part to actually apply a lot of our or Niconovum's thinking to a different geography at this stage.
Next questioner in queue is Michael Avery [ph] with CLSA.
I was wondering if you could just give a little more color on some of the innovation you described where you could -- I realize there's details you don't want to divulge but could you give us a sense of some of -- what the timing might be on a few of those? I mean obviously there's some things on process but you mentioned vapors like if there's e-cigarettes -- is that something that might happen this year or further off? A little bit context for that.
Yes I think maybe without getting into too much detail Michael I think really what I was trying to allude to is that over the next 6 months really over the next couple of quarters is you'll start seeing some initiatives from us on all the fronts.
And what I really mean by that is that we have a comprehensive R&amp;D program in place sort of addressing needs in all of these segments.
And I think you mentioned vapor I'll give you some insights into our thinking on that front.
But when we look at the vapor category today I think there's a fair amount of consumer interest in products like that.
But what we see is very high levels of trial and relatively low levels of conversion and -- which to us indicates that that's really the -- adequate products out there to meet that kind of consumer interest in that category have not actually been deployed in the category yet.
So that's really where a lot of our focus and efforts are our focused.
That's helpful.
And then I think I caught all the color on some of the category normalization just trade shifts and things.
But I might have missed what was -- in this second quarter what was the impact of your -- on your volumes from loading? Did you see a buy ahead that inflated -- that helped the volumes at all? I think the way to kind of look at the category is this wholesale sort of inventory loading and deloading is an industry dynamic.
I think it's fair to characterize our sort of efforts related to that as being much more moderated than the rest of the category.
We have a long-standing kind of policy to try to not participate in these loading dynamics or -- and then of course you don't get the payback in terms of unloading either.
And we do that by placing a lot of our wholesalers on allocation so that there's less of an ability than some of our competitors to actually load and therefore de-load inventory.
Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly on natural snuff you say how the new products are sort of in line with your expectations.
Can you give us a sense of what some of you were expecting? Are those off to a great start? Is it something you think will move slowly but that it's coming along? Or how should we think about that? I think a couple of dynamics out there on the natural styles.
I think first of all if you take a look at it they tend to be bigger or overrepresented in certain geographies.And I think it's also a product sort of subcategory where Grizzly historically has underperformed.
So I think in -- from both points of view it's kind of white space or relative space where we can do better competitively.
So we have actually targeted those categories in those geographies and very happy to report that the results have been very good on that front where those particular styles are growing in the intended geographies.
And so I think that really talks to the broadening of the Grizzly franchise.
And it really is becoming a true national brand across all product categories which is exciting to see.
It already is the market-leading brand.
But of course even within that it has opportunities for continued growth.
And there appears to be no additional questioners on the phone queue.
I'd now like to turn the program back over to Morris Moore for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
Again ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's program.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Attendees you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Now I'll turn the conference over to your host Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's third quarter and 9 months results as well as our outlook for the balance of the year.
As always our discussion today will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
As the results show today Reynolds American's operating companies made substantial progress in the third quarter allowing RAI to increase both earnings and margins.
Despite significant economic and competitive headwinds RAI's operating companies continue to build the equity of their key brands while also investing in new smokeless and other innovations for long-term growth in the changing marketplace.
RAI's performance over the first 9 months has been solid and we're reaffirming our full year guidance of adjusted earnings growth in the mid- to high-single digits.
RAI and its operating companies continue to build momentum in their strategy to transform the tobacco industry.
For us that means operating our companies in a responsible sustainable manner while continuing to deliver commercial success.
RAI's operating companies are achieving transformation of the tobacco industry as leaders in innovation.
I'm pleased to report that RAI's Niconovum subsidiary has entered the market of Des Moines Iowa with its first U.S.
nicotine replacement therapy product under the Zonnic brand name.
Meanwhile another subsidiary R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company has introduced its first e-cigarette under the Vuse brand name in a limited number of stores.
As you can understand it's early days for these new products but we're excited about their potential for growth.
We'll be talking more about these developments at our Investor Day presentation next month which will be available by webcast.
Also during the quarter RAI and its companies further strengthened their corporate sustainability efforts and for the fifth year running has awarded membership in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index which provides independent recognition of RAI's commitment to sustainability.
In addition R.J.
Reynolds recently made major enhancements to its successful youth tobacco prevention program called Right Decisions Right Now giving educators parents and community groups easy online access to free educational materials.
Youth tobacco prevention is a big part of our transforming tobacco strategy and our objective is to accelerate the decline in youth tobacco use by continuing to work for further reductions in both access to and demand for tobacco products.
Now I'll discuss our third quarter performance in more detail.
At R.J.
Reynolds adjusted operating income was down on declines in cigarette volume and higher promotional spending.
However higher pricing and productivity gains allowed the company to substantially improve its adjusted operating margin which was more than 34% in the quarter.
Once again R.J.
Reynolds' results were affected by the aggressive competitive promotional activity in the marketplace.
The company's non-focus value brands continue to be disproportionately affected by this activity.
I would also note that there was 1 less shipping day in this year's third quarter.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds' third quarter shipment volume declined 6.9%.
This compares with an industry decline of 2.7%.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 7.7 billion units at the end of the third quarter down about 400 million from the prior year quarter while R.
J.
Reynolds' wholesale inventories of approximately 2 billion were in line with the prior year quarter.
This tough competitive environment also affected the company's overall market share.
R.J.
Reynolds' third quarter cigarette market share was 26.4% down 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
Again this decline was driven by R.J.
Reynolds' non-focus value brands.
I'm pleased to note that the company's growth brands saw improved performance as they moved through the third quarter.
Camel and Pall Mall posted a combined market share that was in line with the prior year quarter at 17.2% and both brands delivered sequential share growth from the second quarter of this year.
R.J.
Reynolds remains focused on balancing profitability and market share on these brands while building their equity for growth over the long term.
Camel's third quarter market share was stable at 8.5% despite the [ph] promotional environment as well as the ongoing economic pressure on premium-priced products.
In addition Camel share of the true premium price segment further increased during the quarter.
Camel's premium menthol styles which offer relevant product differentiation with the innovative capsule technology continue to support the brand's performance.
These styles gave 0.4 percentage points in the third quarter and they now hold a market share of 3%.
Camel SNUS continued to show strong momentum during the quarter and now holds about 80% of the U.S.
SNUS category.
With the expansion of Camel SNUS Mint earlier this year attracting even more interest it's clear that the smoke-free and spit-free convenience of Camel SNUS is appealing to adult tobacco consumers.
Turning to R.J.
Reynolds' other growth brand.
Pall Mall gained traction in the third quarter despite the significant competition from other value brands as well as the growing segment of what I would call value-priced line extensions of competitive premium brands.
Pall Mall increased its market share by 0.1 percentage points to 8.7% from the prior year quarter and also saw good sequential growth.
Pall Mall benefited from the brand's targeted approach to gaining additional trial.
Pall Mall continues to enjoy a high rate of conversion as half the consumers who try the brand tend to stick with it.
And now Pall Mall will be giving them 2 more reasons to do so.
Pall Mall is enhancing its position in the menthol category with the addition of 2 new styles.
Pall Mall Black a full-flavor tobacco blend; and Pall Mall White a smoother blend are now available in addition to Pall Mall Green the brand's existing menthol offering.
Pall Mall is underrepresented in the menthol category and the company expects this portfolio expansion to offer a good opportunity for additional growth.
Moving on to the moist-snuff business.
American Snuff again delivered excellent growth across a broad front in the third quarter reporting substantially higher adjusted operating income and operating margin.
This was in large part due to another powerful performance by the company's flagship Grizzly brand.
American Snuff's third quarter shipment volume increased 6.6% from the prior year quarter again outpacing the industry's growth rate of about 5%.
In addition American Snuff moist-snuff market share rose almost 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter to just over 32%.
As the nation's best-selling moist-snuff brand Grizzly increased third quarter shipment volume by 7.8%.
And Grizzly's market share increased by more than 1 percentage point to 28.8%.
Grizzly is benefiting from activities to build the brand's equity like the Tellin' It Like It Is promotional campaign which aligns the brand with its consumers in a very relevant and humorous way.
Grizzly continues to make progress in the growing pouch category and the brand now holds over 30% of total pouch sales.
In the natural segment Grizzly remains focused on strengthening its 5 Premium Natural styles with new packaging upgrades that better convey the premium quality and value of these styles.
Grizzly is underrepresented in this segment and American Snuff believes this enhancement offers potential for additional growth.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company continues to show excellent momentum in the third quarter driven by great results from its super-premium Natural American Spirit brand.
Santa Fe reported an increase of more than 35% in operating income and its operating margin rose to more than 50%.
And in market share Natural American Spirit gained 0.2 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 1.2% on volume growth of 13.9%.
It's clear that Santa Fe is doing an outstanding job in managing Natural American Spirit's success.
It's a terrific consumer brand with a unique heritage and a highly differentiated product.
So to wrap up operating performance.
R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe are using effective strategies to successfully navigate the challenging environment and innovation for future growth remains a key focus.
In line with our transforming tobacco strategy our companies are also meeting the changing preferences of adult tobacco consumers.
I'm pleased that with 3 quarters of the year behind us we're still looking at delivering on our commitment of earnings growth.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
Thanks to the achievements of our operating companies Reynolds American increased both earnings and margin in the third quarter and this rounds out a solid first 9 months of the year.
Based on this performance I'm pleased to reaffirm that we're on target to meet our growth projections for the full year with adjusted EPS guidance of $2.91 to $3.01.
This excludes charges for the 2012 post-retirement mark-to-market adjustments Engle progeny and other tobacco-related litigation and restructuring.
Reynolds American's third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.79 up 6.8% from the prior year quarter.
Adjusted results exclude the charge of $0.04 per share related to the post-retirement mark-to-market adjustments.
The adjustments resulted from a design change for retiree medical plans that required a remeasurement of plan obligations.
The adjusted results also exclude a charge of $0.01 per share for other tobacco-related litigation.
On a reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.74 per share up 10.4%.
For the first 9 months adjusted EPS was $2.21 up 5.7% from the prior year period.
These adjusted results also exclude the 2 charges I've just mentioned as well as charges of $0.02 per share for the Engle progeny lawsuits and $0.16 per share for the restructuring.
On a reported basis 9 months EPS was $1.98 up 5.3% from the prior year period.
RAI again delivered strong growth in adjusted operating margin which gained 2 percentage points in the third quarter to 36.1%.
That brought the company's 9-month adjusted margin to 34.4%.
Now I'll turn to our operating companies' performance where I'll focus on adjusted results to provide perspective on their underlying businesses.
First at R.J.
Reynolds the company's third quarter adjusted operating income was $606 million down 3.9% from the prior year quarter as cigarette volume decline and increased promotional spending more than offset higher pricing and productivity gains.
However the higher pricing and productivity gains helped the company's third quarter adjusted operating margin which increased 0.7 percentage point to 34.2%.
For the first 9 months of the year R.J.
Reynolds' adjusted operating income was $1.73 billion down 1.4% from the prior year period.
R.J.
Reynolds kept a tight focus on balancing profitability and share and this resulted in a 1.4 percentage point increase in its 9-month adjusted operating margin to 33%.
And at our moist-snuff business American Snuff generated strong third quarter adjusted operating income growth of 11.4% from the prior year quarter to $100 million.
And the company's third quarter adjusted operating margin jumped 2.4 percentage points to 57.4% on the strength of moist-snuff volume and pricing gains.
For the first 9 months adjusted operating income was up 8.4% from the prior year period at $279 million.
American Snuff's 9-month adjusted operating margin was 55.4% up 2.2 percentage points.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
Natural American Spirit's volume pricing and share gains drove Santa Fe's third quarter operating income up by 35.3% from the prior year quarter to $63 million.
And the company's third quarter operating margin increased to more than 50%.
For the first 9 months of 2012 Santa Fe's operating income was up 23.1% at $172 million.
That brought the company's 9-month operating margin to 48.6%.
So that's a quick look at our operating performance.
Now I'll cover some of Reynolds American's other financial highlights.
RAI continued to make progress with its share repurchase program repurchasing 6.5 million shares for $300 million in the third quarter.
To date the company has repurchased 25.7 million shares under the plan for a total of $1.1 billion.
During the quarter RAI also contributed $50 million to its pension plan which remained well-funded at about 90%.
And the company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.2 billion after repaying $100 million of the term loan.
So in conclusion RAI continues to demonstrate a deep commitment to returning value to shareholders.
The rest of the year remains challenging but RAI's operating companies are well-positioned to deliver against their goals.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] We have a question from Vivien Azer of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with your comment about the improving trends for your growth brands through the quarter and whether you could speak to kind of the impact of promo versus whether that was in part driven also by an easing of the competitive landscape on a relative basis.
Yes Vivien if I kind of look at the quarter I would say it's characterized probably by a little bit of both.
I think -- we refer obviously -- in the earlier section of this call we referred to the intensely competitive environment.
But I do think it's fair to characterize it as having eased very slightly from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter.
And what we saw is rates basically backing off a little bit in the market and these are competitive rates on competitive brands.
Having said that there's obviously more volume in this new segment that we've kind of put the moniker of premium value on.
And there's more volume down there so I would say there's a little bit less per-pack promotion out there but across a larger number of packs so the total financial weight in the market if you want was relatively similar.
But given that it was a little bit less per pack I would say the environment has eased back a little bit.
And given that environment I'm very happy with the way that both Camel and Pall Mall performed during the quarter.
We see sequential change of 0.2 market share points so a 1/5 of a market share point on each of those brands during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Given how intense the competitive landscape has been for a while have you guys taken a closer look at the near-term price elasticities and benchmarked it to kind of the historical price elasticities we've seen from the category? We have actually Vivien and it's our belief that the overall category price sensitivity of demand has not changed.
So when we look at the entire elasticity of the entire category -- having said that obviously within the category there's quite a bit of pressure and we do see a continuing but moderating trend in downtrading.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's interesting to hear.
And lastly in terms of your cost savings fully understand that you guys promoted and that certainly showed up in your market shares this quarter.
But as I think back to your commentary last quarter and the guidance for an acceleration in cost savings if we looked at your cost savings over the course of the year on an absolute basis have they in fact accelerated sequentially through the third quarter? Vivien this is Tom.
They actually have accelerated.
As you recall we did our business review in the first quarter and began implementing that largely in the second quarter and it's building into the third and then into the fourth.
So it is definitely back half skewed.
Our next question is from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan how would you characterize your response to date to -- from a promotional perspective to what's happening competitively? And what would result in the company being more aggressive to try to protect or grow share? Yes David I think the way I would kind of characterize our response is we keep a keen eye on balancing obviously the market share performance and company profitability.
And I think that's kind of been our stance for quite a while now and that's the way we continue to look at the business.
Obviously it is very difficult for competitive reasons for me to begin to speculate about what might provoke a change in our stance in the marketplace.
But let me just express confidence in terms of our position in terms of what we find ourselves right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe as a follow-up the -- normally and by normally I mean the last couple of years by this time of the year you would have narrowed your earning guidance range.
You didn't do that in conjunction with these results.
Is that a function solely of the competitive environment you see in the fourth quarter? Is it -- in other words is there more business uncertainty than would normally be the case? David this is Tom.
That is true.
So we actually chose to keep our guidance where it was at the end of the second quarter because of the competitive activities that are in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Dan just on Pall Mall and Pall Mall Menthol you alluded to that in your prepared remarks and in the release highlighting the fact that the brand's underrepresented in menthol.
My question really is all discount brands are underrepresented in menthol.
That's been the case for a very long time.
And within that context how much opportunity do you think there is for Pall Mall Menthol? Yes.
I think it's a fair observation in the marketplace.
I think generally speaking menthol is a little bit underrepresented in value.
Or maybe better said it's overrepresented in the premium segment of the market.
But of course the lines between premium and value are blurring as we sit here today.
We certainly believe that there is well over 0.5 share point potential in Pall Mall -- or additional potential in Pall Mall Menthol in the value segment.
Our next question is from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First just -- I'm trying to sort of reconcile the Camel's shipment performance in the quarter.
So you head [ph] down 8% in Q3 but the retail market share was down just slightly in the quarter and actually up a little bit sequentially.
So in terms of just the shipment versus retail performance for Camel can you just bridge the 2 for the quarter? Yes I think the -- probably the main aspect that maybe isn't so clear in the numbers Judy is that in the third quarter of last year is when we launched Camel Crush Bold.
And by actually putting that out in the marketplace that obviously resulted in volume during that quarter as the pipeline was filled.
And that we obviously didn't have any new line extensions on Camel just this last quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then Dan just sort of broadly speaking I guess this year clearly the cigarette business has been under a little bit more pressure.
You're probably going to have a hard time sort of growing profit this year on RJRT side.
You've done really well on the American Snuff and Santa Fe.
So if the competitive situation on the cigarette side really doesn't change much in 2013 do you think you can still get to your algorithm in terms of earnings growth without really seeing cigarette business growing because you've got all the levers whether it's growth in American Snuff or buyback or what have you? I think the way I would kind of describe it is I would say is we're quite confident about our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Of course it's very difficult for me to sit here today and give future projections in terms of how that works.
But I'm proud of what our company and our employees have achieved to date and particularly on the brands Camel Pall Mall and also the ones that you mentioned in terms of Grizzly at the American Snuff Company and Natural American Spirit at Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company.
I'm very proud of the efforts and what we've been able to achieve in this very competitive marketplace to date.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly just how incremental or how meaningful with your initiatives in some of the other tobacco products whether it's the Vuse or others have to be kind of in the near maybe in the medium term to really put the company on a stronger footing in terms of just profit or earnings growth? The way I would kind of describe it is I think they're strategically important initiatives for our company going forward.
I think it's very early days in the marketplace and in fact it's only been -- they've only been out there for a couple of weeks.
So really it's too early to talk about how meaningful their contribution might be to our business.
But I would encourage you and all our listeners to either dial in or attend our Investor Day when we'll actually be dissecting some of those propositions and those brands and really the strategic thinking behind them in more detail.
Our next question is from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
So following up on that a little bit and maybe you'll just get into all this at the Investor Day but is there a big push you see behind -- you have several of these new innovation initiatives.
Is there a big push you see coming in one over the other? Or do you think that they're all equally important? How -- what's the right way to think about how to put those in context? Well I would say from the 2 initiatives that are relatively new in the market which is the e-cigarette side and the NRT product I would say that both have substantial potential in the marketplace but both are still in very limited distribution as we sit here today.
So I think it's a little bit early to actually be indicating the prioritization and which might have more market potential than the other.
And on the e-cigarette side where there's presumably comparable products in the marketplace that seem to be growing is there a reason you're taking a what seems to be a more cautious approach as opposed to a bigger launch? I think it's fair to characterize our product as being substantially different than anything else in the marketplace.
This is a sort of organically developed -- it was developed here in the U.S.
and manufacture is also U.S.-based so it's a substantially differentiated product in the marketplace.
And we're quite excited actually about its potential of being successful in the marketplace but also being quite unique and differentiated in the marketplace.
Can you give a sense of what differentiates it? Well I would say we would certainly point to really 3 aspects of that.
We would say it's different from a product efficacy point of view it's different from a product quality point of view and it's different from a stewardship point of view as well.
Sorry stewardship is the last one? It's just about some of the potential kind of health impact in that category.
Okay.
And then just to help me understand in the quarter too if you can you say that the non-focus value brands were the main driver of the shipment decline but if I look at the numbers it looks like the premium -- where you call out total premium declined by 700 million 800 million sticks or about 7% and the value was down about 500 million or closer to 6.5%.
So is it closer to an even split or even skewed towards premium or was there someway the value really was the driver? I'm sorry Michael could you repeat the question? I'm not sure I was quite tracking.
Yes.
So in your prepared remarks you had mentioned that the non-focus value brands were the main driver of the shipment decline for cigarettes.
But I just want to reconcile that with the numbers in the table where it shows that total premium cigarettes going from 10.7 last year to 10 this year and total value from 8 to 7.5.
So in percentage terms their declines were fairly similar and on the premium side the absolute decline was like -- it actually was bigger.
Right.
Yes I think the way to kind of think about our -- the other brands that we have the ones that we're not focusing on and those are Winston Salem Kool and Doral.
If you take a look at the actual declines that were generated there about 1/2 of that was in Doral.
And Doral is a value brand out there whereas the other 3 are premium brands in the marketplace.
And that sort of contributed to that mix if you want that you see.
Our next question is from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan I just have a follow-up question on promotional spending.
I understand you are stepping up your promotions quite a bit behind your key brands in November.
Can you talk a little bit more about this decision and then what other tools or levers you have to pull to help turn your volume performance around? Well Bonnie I think the way I would kind of describe our activity first of all in the month of November I think it is geographically-based and obviously there are sort of key styles and key brands that come into play quarter-to-quarter and month-to-month.
And that obviously is an important lever on the brand.
But we pride ourselves actually on the equity behind the brands that we're building over time.
So of course from a pricing point of view you need to be in the range you need to be sort of competitive but that isn't the long-term differentiator for our key brands.
The long-term differentiator is actually as I've mentioned the equity and imagery behind our brands.
And that I think can be best reflected by the superior demographic profile of our brands particularly in Camel in Premium and Natural American Spirit and Super Premium.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dan I'd love to get your thoughts and I guess your long-term view of the health of the industry's profit pool and then realistically is it at risk? I guess how long do you expect the competitive pressures to remain elevated? Is it another year or could this continue longer? Just love to get your thoughts on how you see this playing out over time.
Yes.
Thanks Bonnie.
I think you know that certainly over the long term and when I look at the long-term future of the category I do believe that the profit pool is fundamentally healthy and that there are good opportunities for the profit pool to grow long term.
Yes I think having said that I think it's fairly obvious to everybody on the call today that the profit pool certainly has been a little bit less healthy over the more recent history.
I think it's very hard for me to speculate when we might actually come out of this period of increased competitiveness.
Yes and I think that question might be better asked at subsequent calls this week.
Our next question is from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll be sure to ask that question in future calls too.
I just want to ask you a quick question if I could.
You talked about how your savings Tom are picking up through the year which we knew because of the restructuring activity.
And I know that you always have some ongoing programs internally that really keep a close eye on costs.
I'm just curious a bit of a follow-on to earlier questions is there anything you're doing internally differently today than maybe you were doing a quarter or 2 ago just because of the promotional environment or competitive activity to try and prepare for that continuing? Are there more cost-saving programs or things that you're doing to help prepare for that? Well Chris as you said we have ongoing programs above and beyond the restructuring that emanated from the business review that we announced in the first quarter.
And we continue to focus on that and we look at just the cost in the organization.
We also look at promotional efficiencies and how we deliver those promotions to the consumers and can we do it in a more efficient way.
So there's a big landscape out there and we're looking at all of it.
And clearly we've demonstrated through our history that we're pretty good at working the cost side of the equation and we haven't lessened up on that at all.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess somewhat related to that the -- if you look at the way your promotional spending is going -- we know there's some increases coming up and you certainly have some new products behind Pall Mall.
So as you are -- whether it's efficiency or it's pulling back on some brands and increasing it behind Pall Mall I guess I just want to understand your net promotional spending for the overall cigarette division is that up? Will it be up maybe more in the fourth quarter? Are you willing to talk about that? Well I think in a general sense we can talk about that.
I think it's fair to characterize our total promotional spending as being up.
But I think some of the key numbers maybe just to keep an eye on although it's up if we take a look at our net price realization for the quarter it's about 3% which certainly by any measure is nothing to sneeze at and that is x contract manufacturing.
So x the price realization we get for the products we manufacture for BAT in Japan.
And then also if we take a look at the adjusted operating margin we came in -- this is total RAI the third quarter -- 36.1%.
That is a sequential change of 1.9 percentage points and year-over-year it's a 2 percentage point change.
And I think that is the way we would kind of look at the business and say that we are financially being good stewards of the company despite some of the very intense competition out there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up and that would just be in relation to your new Pall Mall products do you expect -- do you have -- where do you expect to source the volume from I guess is really my question? Is that -- is it just amongst the low-end? Or do you think there's going to be trade-down from some of the premium brands and to what degree is that a risk for Camel? I think it's a combination of different sources.
I think some will come from other value brands out there.
I think a fair amount will come from the premium segment.
And Pall Mall historically over time has sourced the majority of its share gains actually from the premium segment.
When we take a look at Pall Mall vis--vis Camel don't forget from a product differentiation point of view they are substantially different.
We have the capsule products in Camel and these are more classic i.e.
products without capsule that we've launched on Pall Mall.
So I think we're prepared for a little bit of impact on Camel but I think the more significant proportion will come from competitive premium smokers.
Our next question is from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about your expectation around refinancing or tapping the debt market.
It looks like consistent with your prior commentary you do have sufficient cash built up to pay down the term loan into the current quarter using cash.
But given your maturity next year as well as the current financing environment how should we think about your needs to come to the debt market? Well we do have sufficient cash to pay down the term loan and in fact we paid an additional $100 million down in the early part of October.
We are looking at the debt markets in the relative near term.
We see rates as being favorable and we would use the proceeds from any offering when we do it to basically pay off that $685 million that's coming due in June and in August of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And if we think about what potential sort of tenors you might look to do? Well I would say that when we go to the markets we'll be tenor-focused so we'll be looking at 10s and 30s and perhaps some relatively short as well.
We'll make that determination when we get to the market.
Our next question is from Andrew Kieley of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dan I wonder if -- just quickly if you could talk about your comfort with the price gaps in smokeless and how that relates to I guess Grizzly's ability to maintain this higher level of volume growth going forward? Yes I think honestly I'm relatively comfortable with the price gaps.
If we take a look at Grizzly's performance certainly over the last few years and that's really continued up until now we see Grizzly as fundamentally very healthy as we sit here today.
It came in during the quarter at 28.8% and that's actually up 1.2 share points year-on-year.
And that is despite the price gaps having closed very significantly over the last years and despite the launch of very similar to what's happening in cigarettes of premium value line extensions both on Copenhagen and on Skoal.
And I think it's a fundamental reflection of just how strong the Grizzly equity is out there in the marketplace the strong following it has and fundamentally the fantastic product that's in the can.
So I would say that we're very confident in terms of what we have executed on Grizzly and about its future potential in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question for you as well as Tom I guess.
When we're thinking about the implied guidance for the fourth quarter and the range there is the wideness there? Is that just a function primarily of seeing how effective some of those stepped-up promotions you're doing will be in the fourth quarter? Are there -- just trying to think about puts and takes for your outlook.
It is the reflection of that as well as the other competitive activity that we've observed in the marketplace throughout the year which we see continuing into the fourth quarter thus far.
Our next question is from Karen Lamark of Federated Investors.
Couple of questions.
First on Santa Fe and American Spirit.
Can you talk a little bit about where the growth in volumes is coming from? New users more frequent or loyal users distribution et cetera? And sort of give us some color on the opportunity going forward and if we should expect the same sort of cadence in terms of the fundamental growth there.
Okay.
Yes thanks for that question.
I mean I really think that the people at the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company who manage the Natural American Spirit brand really are firing on all cylinders.
And when we look at this brand and you mentioned some of the potential sources of this growth I would say the answer is all of the above.
What we see the brand is it's really firing on all cylinders.
It's growing very significantly in the markets where it already is strong.
Having said that it's growing at the same rate but obviously off a smaller base in some of the markets where it's less strong.
A couple years ago we did have a significant sort of increase in distribution out there but that was really just distribution catching up to existing demand.
And so when we look at it any way that we look at it even from a consumer franchise point of view we would see new people continuing to kind of try the brand but also convert to the brand.
So we see increasing levels of trial and conversion as we go.
So I really believe that the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company's story is very robust and see no reason why that fundamental marketplace growth should not continue.
I think there's one aspect of the brand that's sort of embedded in the numbers that we released today that is maybe a little bit less repeatable if you want.
And that has to do with the adjusted operating margin on the brand which came in -- for the quarter came in at 50.5% and year-on-year that's actually increased by 7.4%.
That is a reflection of some of the -- a lot of the back office processes for the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company that have actually been incorporated and now provided by RAI Services Company so call that a shared services of some of the back end things.
That's actually had a significant impact on the adjusted operating margin year-over-year but that obviously is not something that repeats in the out years.
Okay.
And then separately if I'm correct the pace of your buybacks in the quarter was a bit higher than you all had guided.
And I'm wondering if maybe a step-up is indicative of your future plans for buybacks and/or when you might expect to complete the authorization.
It's really not indicative of anything other than we wanted to go a little bit heavier in the third quarter and perhaps lighten up a bit in the fourth quarter.
So we're just being -- I wouldn't read anything into it beyond that.
We're still on pace to do about $1 billion a year.
And we would expect -- at this point we would expect to finish the program in the early part of 2014.
Okay.
So just to clarify Q4 is likely to be less than the sort of 2.50 per quarter run rate than you had guided to.
Is that fair? Well we'll take a look at what the share price looks like and we'll make our determinations as we move through the quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Next question is from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan I had a more of a conceptual question for you.
Do you have internally a margin target both for RJRT and American Snuff Company that when you reach that target you would decide not to necessarily grow margin anymore but for example invest in price? And I don't expect you to talk about what the target would be but more conceptually.
Well I think Thilo you know sort of in terms of the interaction that we've had over time that we do watch our adjusted operating margins very closely.
And that is a good guide for us as management just to see how well we're doing in terms of taking some of the market share numbers that come through and actually being able to convert that into operating income.
And we do internally to ourselves set targets that way and it's important.
So I would say conceptually a conceptual answer to a conceptual question the answer would be yes.
Yes and I think we're quite proud of the history that we've been able to demonstrate in terms of growing our adjusted op margin really over many many years now and over many quarters.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk about balancing market shares and profitability are you talking about profit margins in the profitability part or are you talking about actual profit dollars? I think it's both.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So right now profit dollars at least for RJRT are declining but does that mean you're falling short of your goal or is that more a temporary blip? How would you characterize that? I think really when we look at this we would look at it over the long term and see where the long term kind of trends and picture and outlook actually lie.
I think obviously quarter-to-quarter year-to-year you have different competitive pressures different brand dynamics.
The economy changes over time.
So I think we really look at these numbers relative to the environment that the brands and consumers find themselves in.
This ends the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the fourth quarter and full year as well as our outlook for 2013.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by Federal Securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report that the strong finish by our operating companies in 2012 contributed to solid growth in RAI's fourth quarter and full year adjusted earnings and margin.
And our company's momentum positions us well for additional progress this year.
As you're aware the environment in 2012 was quite difficult.
Continued economic weakness combined with an intensely competitive marketplace presented significant challenges for our businesses.
Even so our company's successful business strategy continued to provide a strong and flexible foundation for profitable growth and for returning value to our shareholders.
RAI's operating companies pay close attention to productivity and effectively use the additional resources that were generated by the business review conducted early last year.
They also found new opportunities for marketplace gains while continuing to build the equity of their powerful key brands.
In addition our companies are leading the way in innovation with the development of exciting new products that will help achieve sustainable long-term growth in emerging categories.
Two of these new products Niconovum USA's Zonnic nicotine replacement therapy gum and the Vuse e-cigarette being developed by R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company offer excellent potential for long-term commercial success.
But it's also important to note that these innovations demonstrate our commitment to leading the transformation of the tobacco industry and reducing the harm caused by tobacco.
Niconovum is taking a fresh approach to smoking cessation offering positive and inspirational messaging for the Zonnic brand.
They're also making the product more accessible to adult tobacco consumers both in terms of price and availability.
It's still early days since Zonnic entered its first U.S.
market in Des Moines Iowa but Niconovum is already getting positive consumer feedback that will serve to shape Zonnic's expansion plans.
Now turning to the vapor market.
I'm happy to say that the development of our first e-cigarette under the Vuse brand name is going very well.
Vuse is a highly differentiated product offering proprietary technology that delivers superior vapor and taste.
By addressing the changing preferences of adult tobacco consumers both Zonnic and Vuse offer exciting potential for long-term growth.
We'll be giving you more details about these and other innovation as we move through the year.
I'll note here that RAI's operating companies expect to make significant investments in expanding these product innovations this year as well as investments in equity building initiative on each of their key brands.
These investments are reflected in RAI's guidance for 2013 along with the impact of the recent agreement in principal with 19 jurisdictions to settle the NPM Adjustment dispute under the MSA.
As I'm sure you're aware the proposed settlement is pending review by the arbitration panel.
So we expect to be slightly above our historical trend of mid- to high-single-digit EPS growth with an increase of 6% to 11% for the year.
Now I'll discuss the fourth quarter performance in more detail.
R.J.
Reynolds proved resilient in a challenging year marked by unprecedented levels of competitive promotional spending.
However competitive promotional grades per pack moderated as the year progressed.
R.J.
Reynolds' fourth quarter adjusted operating income declined as a result of lower cigarette volumes and higher promotional spending.
The company's discounting was higher in the quarter primarily due to defenseless support of Camel's capsule styles.
R.J.
Reynolds' shipment volume declined 2.7% in the fourth quarter driven by losses in the company's non-focused value brands which received little or no promotional support.
For the industry as a whole fourth quarter shipment volume was down 0.8%.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 8.6 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter down about 200 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' wholesale inventories of approximately 2.2 billion were up about 100 million.
R.J.
Reynolds' total market share declined 9/10 of 1 percentage point in the quarter to 26.4% with more than half of that decline coming from the company Doral value brand.
I would note that R.J.
Reynolds has seen improvement in their total market share trend which has remained relatively stable over the past 3 quarters.
R.J.
Reynolds' gross brands Camel and Pall Mall made steady progress as they moved through the year finishing with a combined fourth quarter market share of 17.5%.
This was an increase of 3/10 of 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter and is a testament to the strength of the company to find brand portfolio strategy and ability to find new growth opportunities in a challenging marketplace.
Even though it's been a tough year for premium-priced cigarette Camel continues to deliver solid performance.
The brand's fourth quarter market share of 8.6% was in line with the prior year quarter.
Continued strong interest by smokers in Camel's distinctive menthol style provided strength for the brand.
Camel's menthol style gained 4/10 of 1 percentage point to 3.2% and these styles now account for almost 40% of Camel's total share.
Camel SNUS R.J.
Reynolds' first smoke-free innovation is also forging ahead.
Camel SNUS is the commanding leader in the growing U.S.
SNUS category with market share of about 80% and Camel SNUS is seeing good growth from its mint style that was expanded nationally last year.
R.J.
Reynolds is currently rolling out innovative new packaging for Camel SNUS that offers a host of benefits and new opportunities to broaden awareness and trial among adult tobacco consumers.
Camel SNUS Fresh Seal packaging delivers the freshness and flavor that consumers have come to expect without refrigeration.
This packaging upgrade also offers a sleek-looking thinner tin which makes it easier to carry or fit into a pocket.
Turning to R.J.
Reynolds' other growth brand.
Pall Mall wrapped up a challenging year showing renewed momentum in the fourth quarter.
Despite the competitive headwind Pall Mall achieved a record market share of 8.9% which was up 3/10 of 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
It's clear that targeted efforts by R.J.
Reynolds to gain awareness and trial on this true value proposition are paying off and the brand is also benefiting from the recent expansion of its menthol portfolio.
These additional menthol styles Pall Mall Black and White are performing well and I expect to see continued progress by Pall Mall this year.
Turning to the moist snuff business.
American Snuff had another great year delivering strong and steady gains in earnings volume and share.
The company's flagship Grizzly brands drove its performance and the company continued to execute remarkably well.
For both the fourth quarter and the full year American Snuff reported strong growth in adjusted operating income and there were also substantial increases in adjusted operating margin which benefited from both higher volume and pricing.
The company's fourth quarter shipment volume increased more than 7% from the prior-year quarter while their moist-snuff market share rose 1 percentage point to 32.6%.
Grizzly maintained its position as the nation's best-selling moist snuff brand by increasing fourth quarter shipment volume 8.1% from the prior year quarter and the brand's market share rose by 1.2 percentage points to 29.2%.
Grizzly's reputation for outstanding quality and value continues to open up new opportunities for growth.
Now turning to Santa Fe which continues to pose impressive gains on every front.
Strong volume and pricing growth on the company's Natural American Spirit super premium brand drove operating income and margin substantially higher in the fourth quarter and for the year.
Fourth quarter volume of Natural American Spirit was up more than 20% and the brand's share of market achieved another record high at 1.3%.
Let me remind you that this super premium brand remains undiscounted.
Santa Fe lets its unique heritage and additive-free and organic style speak for themselves.
So that's a quick look at operating performance.
Reynolds American and its operating companies are tackling a challenging and ever-changing environment with strategies that focus on efficiency brand equity building and innovation.
And very successful performance puts us in a strong position for continued profitable growth in the coming year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
RAI's operating companies wrapped up the year with positive momentum enabling Reynolds American to report higher adjusted earnings and margin in the fourth quarter.
Our operating companies turned in a resilient performance and were well positioned for growth in the year ahead.
So I'm pleased to announce our guidance for 2013 with EPS in the range of $3.15 to $3.30 an increase of 6% to 11% over 2012 adjusted results.
This guidance excludes $0.23 per share for a credit against the April 2013 MSA payment related to the partial resolution of the NPM dispute as described in our earnings release.
Our guidance takes into account additional investments in the equity building initiatives on our operating companies' 4 key brands as well as significant investments to support the expansion of the Vuse e-cigarette.
It also reflects the favorable impact of the NPM Adjustment dispute resolution for the 2013 volume year which as Dan has already pointed out is pending review by the NPM arbitration panel.
Now I'll turn to 2012 results.
Reynolds American's fourth quarter adjusted EPS benefited from higher pricing the impact of our share repurchase program and productivity gains.
As a result EPS increased 5.6% from the prior-year quarter to $0.76.
These adjusted results exclude the following charges: $0.31 per share for noncash pension and post-retirement mark-to-market adjustments which were driven by the decrease in the discount rate to just over 4%; $0.15 for noncash trademark and other intangible impairments primarily on Winston and Kool brands; $0.02 for early extinguishment of debt; and $0.03 for Engle progeny cases.
Those charges reduced recorded fourth quarter EPS by 51.9% from the prior-year quarter to $0.25.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $2.97 up 5.7% from the prior year.
These adjusted results also exclude the items I've just mentioned as well as charges earlier in the year for other tobacco-related litigation and restructuring.
On a reported basis full year EPS was $2.24 down 6.7% from the prior-year period.
RAI delivered good growth in adjusted operating margin for both periods.
Fourth quarter was up 0.5 percentage point to 34.6% and that brought the full year's margin to 34.5% which was up 1.5 percentage points.
Turning to our operating companies performance where I'll focus on adjusted results to provide better perspective on their underlying business.
At R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter adjusted operating income was $571 million down 4.5% from the prior year quarter on declines in cigarette volume and higher promotional spending.
For the full year the company's adjusted operating income was $2.3 billion down 2.2% from the prior year.
The company's fourth quarter adjusted operating margin declined 6/10 of 1 percentage point to 33.1% while full year margin increased 9/10 of 1 percentage point to 33%.
Turning to our moist snuff business.
American Snuff increased fourth quarter adjusted operating income by nearly 15% from the prior-year quarter to $100 million reflecting gains in moist snuff volumes and pricing.
For the full year the company posted an increase of 10% in adjusted operating income to $379 million.
The company's adjusted operating margin showed excellent growth for both the quarter and the year.
Fourth quarter adjusted operating margin increased 3.4 percentage points to 56.4% while full year margin was up 2.5 percentage points at 55.7%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company again delivered outstanding performance with operating income up more than 37% to $65 million in the fourth quarter driven by strong volume and pricing growth on Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand.
That brought the company's full year operating income to $237 million up more than 26% from the prior year.
Santa Fe's fourth quarter operating margin came in at 49.4% up 4.8 percentage points from the prior year quarter.
Finally let me share some of Reynolds American's other financial highlights.
RAI made significant progress in the number of areas in the fourth quarter and the year and I'll start with an update on our debt position.
We completed a $2.5 billion public offering of senior debt securities in October at very favorable interest rates.
This allowed us to prepay $625 million of debt in December that was scheduled to mature in June of this year.
With respect to our share repurchase program that runs through mid-2014 RAI repurchased 6 million shares for $250 million in the fourth quarter.
That brought total share repurchases under the plan to date to 31.7 million shares for $1.3 billion.
During the quarter RAI also contributed $50 million to its pension plan which remained well-funded.
The funded status of these plans declined slightly to about 86% on a PBO basis due to the decline in the discount rate that I've already mentioned and the company closed the year with cash of $2.5 billion.
So in conclusion RAI continued to find good opportunities to return value to shareholders in 2012 including the 5.4% increase in our dividend last May to an annualized rate of $2.36 per share.
Our operating companies continue to focus on productivity across the board including the successful business to review earlier last year.
Our companies are also making effective use of resources in the development of their new products that will sustain profitable growth over the long term.
Thank you.
We'll now turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Ali would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I want to understand the guidance and what you're really saying about the underlying growth that you envision for next year for 2013.
Just to be clear the guidance of $3.15 to $3.30 am I correct that that includes the benefit of about $200 million in lower MSA cost than you otherwise would have incurred that you'll pay in 2014 because of the proposed resolution? Is that correct? That's about $0.23 a share in benefit.
That is correct David.
I think the way we've looked in terms of establishing guidance is that that's actually included and maybe it's worth just sort of recognizing and me sharing with the rest of the listeners as well is that this is actually part compensation for some of the impact of the MSA and disproportionate impact that the MSA had on our company historically.
So we're taking the opportunity to reinvest a portion of those benefits back in our innovation capability and some of the new products that we've talked about and also in the equity spend behind some of our key assets.
Those are key growth brands and so we'll be looking and rewarding shareholders with part of that benefit and also reinvesting part of that benefit as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> But am I right that on a net basic -- assuming that that will all had flown to the bottom line I mean you can basically get to the underlying rate of earnings growth year-on-year simply with flat operating income in your share buyback.
Well that's certainly one way to look at it David.
I think the way we would look at it is we would say that this opportunity has actually presented itself to us so we're taking part of that benefit and reinvesting it behind our innovations and behind some of the equity spent behind our key growth assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to that point can you give us a sense of what fraction of that spending may be behind the cigarette business as opposed to some of the other innovations? David as you know I think for competitive reasons it's quite difficult for us to go there to actually detail what some of those investments are.
But certainly based on previous remarks and our Investor Day sort of materials I think it's clear where we're focused as a company in terms of our innovation effort.
We're obviously quite excited about some of the recent developments that we've undertaken in the e-cigarette category.
But we're also particularly excited about the performance of some of our key brand assets out in the marketplace that certainly being NAS in super premium in cigarettes Camel and Pall Mall as well as Grizzly in moist snuff.
And I think we've obviously had a look at each one of those key assets that we have going forward and have made the appropriate investment decisions.
And I think as we go through the different quarters this year we can give you a bit more detail as to what some of those investments are as they materialize.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question just on RJRT's performance in the fourth quarter on my numbers pricing was up or price mix about 1% volume your shipment volume is down 2.7% and yet profit's down 4.5%.
I mean just knowing those first 2 items I would have thought profits would have been closer to flat.
Were there some unusual costs during the quarter that were not promotional driven that -- during the period? David this is Tom.
No there wasn't anything unusual.
I mean you have the normal kind of year-end clean-up stuff but I mean there wasn't anything that actually would stand out that's worthy of note.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question is on pricing.
Net pricing decelerated a bit year-over-year and then I think sequentially so could you talk about that in light of the competitive environment? And as you noted the competitive promotional levels moderated as the quarter went on so were you able to take better net pricing towards the end of the fourth quarter? And then how has that progressed this quarter? I think really from a -- when we talked sort of the improving competitive environment I would say that some of the competitive rates actually moderated through the year.
I don't think there were substantial differences in the fourth quarter but really through the year.
And so we posted a net price realization in the fourth quarter year-over-year of 1.1% and that's all excluding the contract manufacturing that we do for BAT in Japan.
And if we take the full year number it's actually up 2.5% year-over-year.
But what I think is important when we talk about moderating rates in the marketplace those are kind of the headline rates and we need to also then look at how much volume that's actually spread across.
So I think it's fair to say that there is a less cents per pack spread across more packs from a competitive point of view.
And so I do think it's a fair characterization to say that spend rates have moderated through the year but I would still call the absolute level of dollars out in the marketplace as being quite intense.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my next question is on Pall Mall.
You mentioned that Pall Mall continues to generate strong rates of trial and conversion.
So I guess I'm wondering how has this brand evolved over the years in terms of its positioning? And where is it now generating trial? What type of consumers are now trying Pall Mall and where are they coming from? And then further on your recent success of Pall Mall Black where is this line extension taking share from? And has this line been incremental? Yes.
I think -- thanks very much for the question.
I think we're quite proud of what Pall Mall has actually achieved particularly in today's pricing environment.
If we take a look at the sequential change for the brand it's actually -- in the fourth quarter it came in at 8.9% which is up 2/10 of 1 percentage point and year-over-year is up 3/10.
And I think given that pricing environment that we've already talked about I think those are some stellar results.
And Bonnie just to answer your question more specifically I take you back to a lot of our discussions during Investor Day about Pall Mall and the role it plays in the portfolio and how that proposition actually works with consumers and we've continued to see good rates of conversion after consumers have actually tried the brand.
And I think it's fair to say that in the -- certainly in the beginning part of 2012 the amount of trial that was available to the brand out in the marketplace was substantially reduced because of the big pricing spend largely by our competitors.
And as that moderated a little bit we're starting to see consumers reinitiate trial on the brand and we also at that stage talked about some of the trial generation activities that we've implemented on Pall Mall which appear to be paying dividends.
And then the second part to your question was about the new menthol line extensions that we have which is Pall Mall Black and White.
We've actually expanded those in the marketplace.
They're performing extremely well slightly ahead of our expectations even and really there -- I would say that Pall Mall still has additional opportunity in that area.
We're still a little bit less than our fair share in that menthol space but we've closed the gap quite a bit through these new extensions and so -- and maybe one other thing just to bear in mind with that is those extensions are actually priced at the same price as the rest of the Pall Mall family.
So we're not talking introductory specials here or anything of the kind and they're doing very well and I believe still have additional growth opportunity out there.
And you asked about the source of business of those menthol styles and there's nothing really of particular note here.
It's really sourcing from the entire menthol space proportionately.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Dan.
And I just have one final question on the federal buyout fee which is going away in late 2014 and as a result your cost per pack -- and it should be reduced by around $0.06 per pack which should have a very favorable impact to your margins and earnings growth.
So could you talk a little bit about what your plans might for this cost reduction? And how should we think of this benefit? Bonnie this is Tom.
We're looking at that and you've got the math right and then it will likely manifests itself in differences in 2015.
And so what we'll have to do at that juncture is to take a look at the types of pricing that's taken I mean or is our price increases going to be lower than they otherwise would or we'll just have to match up with competition and see how it all evolves.
But we are watching it and we're aware of it.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
I want to understand in terms of the gap in your EPS growth guidance for the year the sort of $0.15 gap just some of the factors that could have pushed that higher or lower.
I'm just -- so I guess along those lines like a state excise tax environment do you have a conservative assumption for promotional levels that sort of thing just so we can get a little color on that? Yes.
I think if I actually look first of all from a taxation environment which is where you asked from the cigarette side of things we are expecting and this is our sort of working assumptions today is we're expecting a bit less than $0.10 on the cigarette SET front and maybe a bit less than $0.05 on the moist snuff SET level.
I think the principal way and I believe I've already answered this a little bit earlier but the way I look at this guidance situation is we're taking the opportunity to make some fairly sizable investments on some of our new innovations out in the marketplace and in addition some of the equity spent.
And by equity spend I think that really is what we're trying to target there is long-term sustainable growth of some of our key assets and some of the key brand equities and so I think it's quite meaningful those investments.
I think at the same time we obviously look at the pricing environment.
We've had to make some assumptions as to where that's actually going and we continue to evaluate the levels of competitive spend in the marketplace and what that might mean for us in our performance next year.
But when we weighed in all those factors together we believe we've given a prudent level of guidance to the market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my other question just in relation to in particular RJR Tobacco where you've been really attacking the costs you have an explicit cost reduction program and you have obviously ongoing productivity-type opportunities.
Can you speak to how much you expect in terms of a benefit from cost savings this year at least from the program if not if you have any other color on the other productivity side? Chris this is Tom.
Well we announced post the business review in March of last year that we would expect to save about $25 million in 2012 which we did and then some and that's going to grow to about $70 million by 2015.
Now these are savings in both SG&amp;A and they're also manifesting themselves in the cost of products sold line.
So we're very confident that we will get to the $70 million.
It should build through the course of this year.
And as we've said before cost savings is kind of in our DNA.
So outside of the announced programs that we have we have other initiatives within the company that are generating cost savings which actually I mean in addition to the net price realization we take basically increases our margins and that's really where you can see where it shows up.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan throughout the course of the year you always described the competitive environment as very intense and you've just made a comment that promotions have been dialed back on a per pack basis but are spread across more packs.
Would you still describe therefore the environment as intense? What's your outlook for the coming year? Well obviously Thilo it's hard for me to guess exactly what competitive intentions are within the category.
I do look -- when we look at it both ways obviously what the rate per pack is and also what the total pressure in terms of total spend in the category is.
And I would say from a total dollars spent back in the category we would still describe the environment as being quite intense but of course some of the headline rates per pack have gone down a bit over time.
So I think it's a fair characterization to say that the pricing environment or the pricing pressure has moderated somewhat in the category but there is still an inordinate amount of dollars being spent back in the category and so I think it's a little bit more of a nuanced position this quarter.
But all in all I would say that we're in a better place as a category than we might have been this time last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when I think about your guidance for fiscal '13 kind of what kind of competitive environment is that guidance based on? Yes I think it's obviously very hard for me to give you some guidance in terms of competitive intent.
And I think frankly that question is a little bit better placed with our -- some of our competitors but we've obviously internally had to make our assumptions as to where the environment might be heading.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But you wouldn't share with us what those assumptions are? No of course not.
Would be very difficult.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with your investments in next gen and specifically Vuse given that you're going to be reinvesting some of that MSA benefit back I'm curious to hear your thoughts about what you expect in terms of FDA regulation of e-cigs.
That's a great question Vivien.
First of all on the e-cigarette space I think we're still awaiting and deem -- what we would call deeming regulation.
And as you know the FDA in the past has sort of signaled its intent to actually pass the new regulation across some of these unregulated tobacco and nicotine spaces.
And that certainly is our assumption going forward.
Now having said that we might already have expected some of those regulations to come out but they haven't yet.
So I think our working assumption is that we will eventually see some deeming regulation in the category to cover the e-cigarette space.
Research Division</strong> But do you think it'll come in 2013? I think certainly by all accounts that is the intent of the FDA.
But given how a lot of the regulatory landscape has evolved over time certainly I think making predictions are -- is a hazardous enterprise but all things considered that they have declared that intent so that is our working assumption.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
My second question has to do with your profit per stick in the RJRT business.
I certainly appreciate that the competitive landscape is tough.
There've only been a couple of occasions over the last few years where you've seen a quarterly decline in your profit per stick.
Can you talk a little bit about how we should think about profit per stick growth going forward in 2013? Yes.
I think really the way we look at our business is we obviously watch very keenly the net price realization.
If we take a look in the fourth quarter we had a net price realization x contract manufacturer of 1.1% and for the year about 2.5%.
At the same time we keep a very keen eye on the adjusted operating margin and -- on the adjusted operating margin.
And from that point of view I think we've also showed good year-on-year progress.
As a total company total enterprise we're up 1.5% but of course there's a mix issue within that at Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company up 4 percentage points and at the American Snuff Company 2.5% and at the RJRT slightly under 1%.
So when we look at that and I think also in the fourth quarter the thing that had a bearing on our results was what we call our capsule defense plan.
As you know we developed the capsule innovation.
We launched it into the marketplace and that attracted competitive attention.
And they also launched into that product category really starting at the back end of the third quarter.
But during the fourth quarter we did deploy some resources to defend our leadership position in that new and innovative category.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan just going back to your decision to reinvest back some of the NPM settlement benefit into your business I'm just curious as to sort of your assessment that the decision to reinvest back some of the upside raises potentially the promotional intensity or the competitive intensity that you see in the marketplace.
And then in relation to the spending is there any target that you'd like to achieve whether it's certain market share targets in cigarettes or certain volume targets in e-cigs and other categories? Yes.
I think Judy the first thing I'd just ask you maybe just to focus on in terms of some of those investments that we're planning to make the first one is obviously on the e-cigarette space.
And when we actually look at extending the distribution and rolling out that new product that we've developed and I think those are really equity and innovation-based spending in the e-cigarette space.
And I believe we're also trying to be quite clear that we're trying -- that we're planning to make equity investments so really looking at building the brand equity of some of our key assets particularly at the Santa Fe National Tobacco Company on their key brand National American Spirit and Grizzly as well as Camel and Pall Mall.
And so that really is a lot of our efforts that is in support of a lot of the efforts that we've spent a lot of time building the capabilities to do that in terms of our direct-to-consumer work our consumer engagement work at retail and in other establishments and so I would really characterize that spend as being equity-based spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess following up on the e-cig category just setting aside the regulatory issues just your thoughts in terms of how big the category could get.
Obviously the category has grown pretty nicely.
Your decision to spend money in that category perhaps speaks to your -- a view on the category having a pretty nice growth potential.
So can you give us your views in terms of how you see the category developing? And is there any sign of the category at this point eroding or encroaching on the traditional cigarette volume or is it just still too small to matter? Well Judy we had quite an extensive discussion about this during our Investor Day.
I think we're quite bullish about the category in terms of -- obviously its growth rate but what also what can be achieved in the future.
We're obviously trying to develop the category in a differentiated way as is the tradition for our company to come out with a differentiated product and we believe a significantly superior product to anything in the category today.
We believe we have a product that offers a consumer experience that's closer to the smoking experience than anything out there and of course we're developing a product that is assembled in the U.S.
from food-grade materials and so we're quite bullish.
I think in terms of the impact on the traditional smoking category it really is -- the category is probably a bit too small to have a definitive view on that.
But I think I'd be remiss to say that if that category continues to grow in line with expectations in the future of course it will at that stage have a substitution effect with regular cigarettes but I think we're really excited about its potential.
And the other thing maybe a reflection I would have on it is there's a number of different ways to enter a new category.
We of course as a company could have gone out and actually acquired something within the e-cigarette space in which case that acquisition cost would just be a one-off and would be adjusted out of our results but we've chosen to go an organic route here which necessarily means that there are ongoing investments.
We believe that is the more prudent and for the long term actually the cheaper way to come into the category.
But those 2 routes were available to us and we believe we've done it the right way but that will require investments as we go forward to actually develop the equity the brand equity and views and to deploy some of that significant new innovation and production capacity for that matter.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just my final question Tom I think you said there's 100 million of inventory at the end of the fourth quarter that was higher than the third quarter is it your expectation that gets unwound in Q1? Yes.
I mean we actually ended a little bit higher than we would have expected post the price increase and so I mean that will pay back but then $100 million that is really -- excuse me 100 million sticks is -- that it may pay back.
We'll just have to wait and watch those inventories.
Yes.
I would describe the inventory position as being really relatively inconsequential.
There's some small movements on that front but nothing major.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just back on e-cigarettes for a minute obviously not going with an acquisition has a slower build I would imagine.
Could you give a sense of what the scale or size of that business is? I know you said it's performing well but how do we think about that in context? Well Michael thanks for your question.
We don't look at it and we don't believe that it will actually lead to a smaller build.
I think what we have is a significantly differentiated and superior product bringing to market so we're actually -- believe that this is a growth maximizing strategy that we've -- are deploying into the marketplace.
Of course it's very difficult at this stage for me to share specific projections in terms of our efforts within the e-cigarette category but I think as the quarters progress during the year we'll be giving you more and more information as to what that performance actually looks like.
Research Division</strong> That sounds fair.
And yes I guess I just meant you're starting at a 0 base instead of having something established.
But you're saying you expect a faster growth trajectory once it gets going? Yes largely based on the superior product attributes certainly all our testing and we have a high degree of confidence in terms of the product that we've actually developed.
Research Division</strong> And what's the margin structure look like? How does it compare to say the base cigarettes on like say a gross margin basis? I think very hard for us to actually indicate at this stage.
The beginning cycle for any new product launch obviously we're going to be more doing more investing than we're actually recovering from a margin point of view but over time and our projections is that it will be a significant contributor to long-term profitability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I was wondering if you could just come back to the settlement for a minute obviously it's pending.
What are any of the final approvals that need to happen for that to stay on schedule? And what's the timing for some of those? Yes so maybe I'll just remind all the listeners the proposed settlement has been agreed to by 19 jurisdictions.
Those 19 jurisdictions the 17 states and 2 other territories account for about 43% of allocable share.
And to us as a company that's worth about $1 billion over 5 years okay? And the arbitration panel they need to permit this agreement to go through.
The first hearing was actually held -- has been held already and the second hearing is going to be held on March 7 and we're quietly optimistic that they will allow this agreement to go forward.
And I think something else just to bear in mind in all of this is we do believe that this proposed settlement will actually have a positive impact on future enforcement efforts by the states.
So we do believe that there is a sort of a forward positive impact as more of these states comply with our obligations under the MSA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then just another question for the impairment charges in the quarter I know you've had a trademark impairment on Doral in the past is this a further reduction on that same brand or was there something else involved now? Could you give us a little color there? Michael this is Tom.
Actually I don't think that we impaired the Doral brand.
It was the Kool and the Winston brands that were impaired.
Research Division</strong> And do you see any others that might be at risk there? Where do you think this...
No we take a look at this annually in the fourth quarter and clearly we marked everything to where we thought it should be and we'll have another look next year which is part of our process.
Our last question comes from Karen Lamark of Federated Investors.
A couple of follow-up questions on your planned investments.
In terms of the innovations that you've talked about does that have any implications for CapEx? And if I missed it I'm sorry did you give guidance on 2013 CapEx? We did not give guidance on 2013 CapEx but I can tell you that yes we are going to make some capital investments and that our capital expenditures which were going to be -- I mean we're going to be filing our K shortly.
I mean later today and it will be included in there.
Those CapEx -- the CapEx that we've got planned for next year is roughly $140 million and that's up slightly from the roughly $90 million that we spent this year.
Okay.
And then separately but related can you give us some examples of what you consider I guess equity building initiatives? I understand for competitive reasons you probably don't want to give us a lot of detail but what do you mean by that or maybe what falls under that definition? Yes it's everything from our efforts in direct mail from our consumer engagement efforts which we deploy through our field force but also through third party agencies which is really where we're having face-to-face conversations with consumers.
It's through the work that we do at different consumer events.
So it's really using the marketing communications mix that's available to us as a company.
It does not include pricing is that true? That is true.
I'm showing no further questions at this time and I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us on our call today.
If you have any follow-on questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Now I'll turn the conference over to your host Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the first quarter of 2013 as well as our outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
As our first quarter report shows today the year is off to a strong start with RAI delivering substantially higher earnings and margins.
All of our operating companies saw gains in first quarter operating income and margin while continuing to improve their positioning of their key brands in the competitive marketplace.
Before I discuss performance in more detail I'll touch on a major recent development.
As you probably know R.J.
Reynolds and various other tobacco manufacturers reached a settlement with 20 jurisdictions to resolve a massive settlement agreement NPM disputes for 2003 through 2012.
This agreement will provide a significant benefit to our largest operating company R.J.
Reynolds to a lower MSA cost over the next 4 years.
As you can see from our results today the company's already benefiting from the agreement.
Now I'll discuss performance in more depth.
Industry cigarette volumes were soft for the quarter and that was driven by several factors.
There is no doubt that the ongoing economic weakness continues to present challenges.
In addition to that consumers' disposable income suffered another hit with the expiration of the payrolls past holiday.
This past impact combined with higher energy prices and continued high unemployment all contributed to the negative impact on cigarette volumes.
In addition and this was a big factor all of our reportable segments had 2 fewer shipping days in the first quarter as compared to the prior year.
I would note that this will turn around as we move through the year with one additional shipping day in both the second and third quarters.
So in total there will be no difference for the year.
So with respect to performance overall I'm really pleased with the way that our operating companies managed their businesses delivering share gains on each of their key brands in what continues to be a challenging environment.
Our companies have the right strategies and they continue to execute well.
They remain focused on initiatives.
They are enhancing the equity of their key brands while delivering innovations that would meet the changing preferences of adult tobacco consumers and drive long-term sustainable growth.
We also reported a number of other achievements in the first quarter with innovation remaining a key driver of change in the transformation of the tobacco industry.
R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company is making excellent progress in the development of its Vuse e-cigarettes.
Vuse is quite different to what's currently available in this fast-growing category.
And we believe that this innovative product will offer adult tobacco consumers a vapor experience that's significantly superior.
R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company has exciting plans for the further expansion of Vuse this year.
And you'll be hearing more about Vuse soon.
In addition Niconovum USA is moving ahead with the Zonnic nicotine replacement therapy gum another innovative product that forms part of our efforts to reduce the harm caused by smoking.
Zonnic entered the Des Moines Iowa market last September and Niconovum is getting good feedback that is helping to shape the brand's plans.
So as the year unfolds we expect increased investments in Vuse and other innovations.
And of course there'll be continued spending on the equity-building initiative for our operating companies' key brands.
These investments for long-term success are reflected in RAI's guidance for 2013 together with the impact of the partial resolution of the NPM disputes.
And as we reported earlier we are reaffirming our guidance for the year with expectations of earnings growth in the range of 6% to 11% ahead of 2012's adjusted results.
Now I'll provide more details on our operating companies.
At R.J.
Reynolds the company delivered solid underlying performance that benefited from higher pricing productivity improvement and lower MSA cost in what continues to be a very competitive environment.
As I've already mentioned the company's cigarette volumes were distorted by 2 fewer shipping days in the quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds' first quarter shipment volume declined 8.7% from the prior year quarter.
However when adjusted for the difference in shipping days the decline was actually about 5.6%.
Industry wholesale inventories were a little changed at approximately 7 billion units at the end of the first quarter up about 100 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 1.9 billion were up about 100 million.
R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share was down 0.6 percentage point at 26.1%.
Once again this was driven by declines in the company's nonfocused value brands primarily Doral which fell 0.5 share point in the quarter.
However in contrast share performance was actually quite good on R.J.
Reynolds' two growth brands.
Camel and Pall Mall reported a combined market share of 17.5% which was an increase of 0.6 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
And these brands now account for over 2/3 of R.J.
Reynolds' total market share.
Camel's premium menthol styles continue to generate strong interest from adult tobacco consumers and Camel's overall first quarter market share increased by 0.1 percentage point to 8.5%.
Camel's menthol styles gained 0.5 percentage point to 3.3% and now accounts for almost 40% of Camel's total share.
That's quite an achievement and it demonstrates the importance of Camel's innovative capital style within this iconic brand portfolio.
Camel SNUS continues to perform well in the small but growing snus category.
The latest enhancement to Camel SNUS is a Fresh Seal packaging and R.J.
Reynolds expects this upgrade to strengthen the position of Camel SNUS in the marketplace.
Now turning to Pall Mall.
As we said earlier this year Pall Mall finished 2012 with renewed momentum and it's fair to say that the brand maintained that momentum through the first quarter.
Despite the fact that the brand faced significant competitive pressure Pall Mall gained 0.5 share point in the first quarter growing to 9% of the market.
I'm very pleased with this growth and how the recent expansion of Pall Mall's menthol portfolio is contributing to the brand's performance.
Now turning to American Snuff.
The company again delivered excellent results in the first quarter.
American Snuff reported a double-digit increase in operating income driven by higher moist-snuff volume and pricing.
American Snuff's first quarter moist-snuff volume increased by just over 1%.
The comparison was challenging due to the 2 fewer shipping days in the quarter as well as the timing of promotional shipments in the prior year quarter.
From a market share standpoint the company continued its growth trend gaining 0.8 percentage point to a record 33%.
And that performance was driven once again by the company's flagship Grizzly brand which remains the nation's #1 moist-snuff brand.
Grizzly reported first quarter market share of almost 30% which was up over 1 percentage point.
Now turning to Santa Fe's first quarter performance.
The company reported strong growth in adjusted operating income volume and share.
Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand continues to make substantial gains in the super premium priced market.
The brand's volume increased 14.7% from the prior year period.
In addition Natural American Spirit which is expanding its consumer engagement program increased its share of market 0.2% to 1.3%.
As part of Santa Fe's initiative to build brand equity the company had partnered with TerraCycle in a nationwide project to clean up cigarette butt waste.
That's the kind of commitment to environmental sustainability that has helped build Natural American Spirit's loyal consumer following.
So those are some of the quarter's major highlights.
And although there will be challenges in the months ahead Reynolds American and its operating companies are adept at finding new opportunities for growth and are well positioned for continued success.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
RAI delivered good growth in the first quarter with substantially higher earnings and margins as a result of strong performance by our operating companies as well as the benefit of lower MSA cost.
And as Dan has already mentioned we're reaffirming our guidance for the full year with adjusted EPS in the range of $3.15 to $3.30.
This guidance excludes the credit against the 2013 MSA payment for the 2012 volume year and implementation costs.
It also reflects the investments needed to expand Vuse in the market and continue to develop other innovations while building equity in our operating companies' key brands.
In the first quarter Reynolds American's adjusted EPS benefited from several factors including higher pricing and productivity improvements and the resolution of the NPM disputes with 20 jurisdictions including Oklahoma which recently joined the settlement.
These results also reflected the favorable impact of our share repurchase program.
Accordingly RAI's adjusted EPS increased 14.3% from the prior year quarter to $0.72.
These adjusted results exclude the 2013 MSA payment credit as well as implementation costs.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.92 up more than 90% from the prior year quarter.
I'm also pleased with RAI's strong adjusted operating margin growth in the quarter which increased by 3.7 percentage points to 36.6%.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds generated solid earnings growth in the first quarter despite the soft cigarette volumes with adjusted operating income increasing 9.2% to $563 million.
The company's first quarter adjusted operating margin also jumped 4.4 percentage points to 36% and I would note here that this reflects the company's continued focus on balancing profitability and share.
Our moist-snuff business also performed well benefiting from higher pricing and volume growth.
As a result American Snuff increased first quarter operating income by just over 10% from the prior year quarter to $93 million.
And the company's operating margin also rose by 2.5 percentage points to 55.7%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company continues to be a key contributor to RAI's bottom line with adjusted operating income up 15.5% to $52 million in the first quarter.
Santa Fe's first quarter adjusted operating margin was a very strong 45.2% which was up 0.2 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
Now let me cover several other financial highlights.
RAI ended the first quarter with $2.8 billion in cash balances.
But as you know last week R.J.
Reynolds satisfied its MSA obligation of $1.84 billion which was reduced by a credit of $202 million from the partial resolution of the NPM disputes.
With respect to our share repurchase program RAI purchased 6.8 million shares for $300 million in the quarter and that brought total share repurchases under the plan to date to 38.6 million shares for $1.6 billion.
I would also note that RAI borrowed $500 million on April 10 under our previously announced term loan agreement.
So that wraps up a strong set of results for RAI and its operating companies.
Our companies offer strong platforms for profitable growth this year and we continue to look for opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] First question is from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
I want to ask you first of all if you could just characterize the promotional spending in the quarter? You've mentioned before Dan about it's gotten better through the quarter.
Can you just characterize kind of where you see the overall category level standing today from a promotional standpoint? Yes I would characterize the total promotional spend in the cigarette category to be relatively constant.
I don't think we saw significant variation during the quarter.
I do think that the nature of the spend is slowly changing a little bit in the category.
There seems to be a slightly less emphasis on the actual rate of buy downs so the promotional spend that spread all widely across all packs in most stores.
But we are seeing a shift of some of those resources to prepacked promotions in the category.
But in aggregate I would describe the total promotional spend in the category as being relatively stable in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second -- just a sort of follow-on to that question in relation to industry volumes.
And I want to ask first if the -- did the whole category have 2 fewer shipping days in the quarter therefore were underlying volumes down closer to 3% for the category? Would that be a fair representation? I just want to again get a sense of what you see that doing for the year for 2013? Yes.
Obviously I'm not going to speak for our competitors but I can tell you that we had 2 fewer shipping days during the quarter which obviously impacted the volumes in the cigarette category but also in moist snuff.
And I do think it's fair to say that the volume performance -- the quarter started out weaker but we did see some improvement in terms of volume trends during the quarter.
I kind of look at the category -- I think it's fair to characterize that as being down maybe slightly ahead of what we might have expected coming into the year.
And I think that's largely due to the payroll tax holiday also some of the energy prices and some of the sticker shock that consumers were getting at the pump.
But given the relative sort of pricing changes year-over-year I think I would have coming into the quarter expected that the category will be slightly better than it turned out to be -- or sorry the category is slightly worse than I would have expected it to be.
Our next question is from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-on question to Chris's last question about the industry volumes being down.
Dan do you see -- or I guess I'd be curious to hear from you or your opinion whether e-cigs are playing a role on putting pressure on this industry volume potential slowdown? Yes Bonnie.
First of all thank you for your question.
Obviously the e-cigarette category we do -- according to our sort of tracking it does continue to grow.
So I don't think I could state that it didn't have an impact.
But I don't believe that was a major driver of category performance in the quarter.
But of course it would have had a small impact on the cigarette category.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I do have a question on the MSA credit.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how much a credit you've reinvested? And then how much you're possibly letting flow to the bottom line? If I look at your cigarette segment your per unit cost excluding the MSA the expense and then the FDA fees that cost went up 49% in the quarter which equates to around $211 million.
So it does suggest you did in fact spend back your credit works but then if you look at your ongoing MSA payments they're quite a bit lower after excluding the onetime credit.
So I just kind of want to think about how we should think about this going forward? How we should model this? Bonnie this is Tom.
The way that we look at this is based -- and the way that we are operating today is basically what we told on you in our year-end call and that is that we would reinvest a portion of these proceeds in our innovations products Vuse and others as well as in equity building programs for the brands.
And we have stayed true to that statement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay it's just a portion.
All right.
And maybe a different question about the different cost buckets.
Meaning I understand then why your SG&amp;A expense for the total company was up around 30% in the quarter suggesting the items you just mentioned.
But I'm also trying to understand why are your cost was up so much? Which costs are you talking about Bonnie? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
For your entire company your cost of goods sold was up quite a bit in the quarter on a year-over-year basis? I am not looking at the same numbers that you are I'm sorry.
The next question is from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question I guess -- is more big picture on the market share.
I mean it strikes me as you guys as long as Pall Mall and Camel are picking up share all is good in terms of how you think about spending levels.
But is there a threshold for your overall market share that you guys just are unwilling to go below? Just trying to get a sense of the tolerance [ph] here in terms of the nonsupports and the other nonfocus brands? Yes I think Nik unfortunately I can't answer your question directly sort of with a firm statement and a specific number.
But I can tell you that we're proud with what we've actually achieved this last quarter and as you already referenced the sort of significant growth on our growth brands at R.J.
Reynolds specifically Camel and Pall Mall being up 0.6 percentage point.
I think the other thing I would point to is kind of what the shape is in terms of the decline in terms of some of the rest of the portfolio.
So if you take a look of those brands the majority of that decline is actually counted for by Doral which was down 0.5 share point.
And Doral as you know is a value brand in the marketplace.
So when we look at the shape of the total portfolio I think it's trending in a direction that we like.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the other question just real quick Dan any thoughts on excise tax? Just kind of how you think about that as for the year? You guys usually give an estimate in terms of what you think the tax increase will be on a weighted average basis.
Yes I think a couple.
There's always been some new developments on that side.
But let me touch on the SET's first for this year.
In our last call I actually stated that we were expecting less than $0.10 for 2013 and our expectation is that it's still correct.
We're still expecting less than $0.10.
There's been none yet.
So it's been fairly quiet so far in terms of actually things passing.
Now there's been plenty of bills introduced in different jurisdictions.
I think the one state that we're keeping a very close eye on as we sit here today is obviously California.
There's been certainly some legislation that's been kind of muted in that state but that's sort of one outlier which because of the size of the state has a very significant national average impact.
And then in addition to that there's been Obama administration has proposed a $0.94 SET.
That we do not expect to pass.
But of course when we look at that kind of environment and given the source of that proposal it may give others ideas into the future.
So that probably puts a little bit more of a watch out on that side in the coming years.
The next question is from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan given your comments about the promotional environment how would you describe your ability to drive pricing for the rest of the year? Well I mean rather than to talk so much about the future I think it's better to just talk in terms of what we achieved in the quarter itself.
And if you take a look we sort of from a company-wide point of view we had a net pricing realization of 4% in the quarter.
Now I just want to remind the listeners that's excluding the contract manufacturing so excluding the net price realization we have on some of the contract manufacturing we do for BAT in Japan.
But I think that 4% is a very healthy number.
It's certainly up from the year average of last year of 2.5%.
And so I think we're marginally more confident in the category pricing as we sit here today than we were last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan if you don't want us to think about the future you're putting all of us out of a job.
I'm happy to help you think about the future but it's hard to actually give you specific numbers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But since you want to talk about the quarter and in my math it doesn't look like you were able to take any pricing on Natural American Spirit.
Why would that be? All right.
I think in the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company what we did there on NAS we started some of the investment programs that we began to highlight in our last quarterly call.
So we did step up some of our equity-building spend there and that's what you're actually seeing.
You see that reflected in the adjusted operating margin of that company as well.
Having said that the volume grew so significantly at that company during the quarter.
What we actually saw is its market share increasing 0.2 percentage point now up at 1.3 national market share points.
So I think actually what we're -- the best way to kind of think about that is we are reinvesting some of the dollars generated by its organic growth as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question from me.
Currently Mayor Bloomberg in New York is proposing to increase the age to buy cigarettes from 18 to 21.
Is that -- are proposals like that are those a concern for you? Do you think this could actually realistically happen? And how worried are you? What impact that would that have on volumes? Well let me just give you a little bit of a perspective.
All the jurisdictions in the United States currently have a legal age to buy tobacco products.
It's either 18 and in a few outliers it's 19.
The proposal here is to take that to 21.
I think my generic thoughts on it is there are -- there's quite a bit of regulation in the category already as we sit here today.
And I don't believe the category is actually best served by significant additional new regulation but I do think that a lot of these local jurisdictions should be thinking much more about the diligent enforcement of some of the existing regulations.
I'm thinking about that particularly as it relates to tax collection some of the movement of goods across different jurisdictions which by the way also means that the other regulations aren't enforced when things like that move through some of those shadow channels.
The next question is from Michael Luddy of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on RJRT the per stick profitability was up really significantly 19% 20%.
Was this just a matter of timing on cost savings? Or can you talk a little bit about the phasing in the profitability through the year? Well this is Tom Michael.
The profitability was driven by the net price realization at Reynolds Tobacco as well as some favorable benefit by -- from the MSA as well as our cost saving initiatives which are on track to meet these milestones that we have put out there in the metrics by 2015 excuse me.
Research Division</strong> So there wasn't anything strange there just because if you were to keep that per unit profitability at least it would be -- you'd be well ahead of your guidance? But it just may be that the fact that you have I guess similar cost savings amount in the first quarter with the rest of the year but you had a lower base because of the 2 less selling days? We did have a lower base because of the 2 less selling days and we will continue to make investments around the equity-building programs of the Reynolds Tobacco brands Camel and Pall Mall as we move through the year.
Our next question is from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan first let's -- can we revisit the volume for one sec? Do you worry that perhaps there's something else going on? Just given the traditional resiliency there obviously have been prior periods of time so with spikes in gas prices perhaps nothing analogous to the end of the payroll tax holiday.
But if you think more broadly about it could there be something else going on in consumer behavior? Maybe because these dynamics occurred when consumers think about New Year's resolutions to stop smoking? Could that have sort of created a more pronounced short-term impact? Well I think David obviously speculation is relatively easy but when we actually started analyzing the numbers the -- really it seemed to correlate to us most with that payroll tax holiday and some of these energy price shocks.
And we don't have any evidence of any other significant factor coming into the numbers.
And really to kind of emphasize and highlight that point as we did see that the volumes improve through the quarter which I think is very important.
And so really we believe the most significant impact was from those 2 factors.
But I do think it's fair to say and I said this earlier on the call as well that the decline is slightly ahead of our expectations given some of the pricing dynamics and taxation dynamics in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> In the absence Dan of a disruptive excise tax increase do you think that the spot rate of decline later in the year can move towards or more towards the traditional decline rate? I think that is our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just 2 other things.
Dan why do you think or what is your intelligence tell you if anything as to why there was a change in leadership at the Tobacco Products division of the FDA? And what do you think the implications of that change may be? Well obviously it's hard for me to speculate as to what actually prompted that change.
But I do think that given the new director in place that there is going to be a probably more significant or at least a speeding up of some of the activity at the FDA.
And certainly in some of the initials -- sort of more public pronouncement coming from Zeller the focus seems to be on menthol some of the deeming regulations in terms of some of the other tobacco/ nicotine categories and on substantial equivalent documentation.
So we're obviously ready for any scenario as a company and are actively engaging with the FDA on a number of different fronts as we navigate this new regulatory environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dan lastly it's early days but do you see any evidence of a change in the pacing of the Engle progeny cases following the Florida Supreme Court's decision in Douglas? We are not seeing any significant changes that way.
I think the most significant thing in terms of the Engle process for people to keep an eye on is actually the appeals to the 11th Circuit which were filed in the Walker Duke and McRae cases.
And those are -- obviously we're reviewing our due process argument.
And I think that is probably the key area for folks to keep an eye on.
Our next question is from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could share with us your thoughts around potential expectations to come back to the debt market either later this year for potential liability management or to address the term loan that you've just took out? Sure Priya.
This is Tom Adams.
I as you referenced we drew down on our term loan on April 10 $500 million at an interest rate of about 1.7%.
We will now begin to build cash in addition to that through our operations all during the year.
We do have a view on looking at the debt markets but the timing of that will really be dependent on the other cash needs we have.
Our capital expenditures will be up slightly this year versus last year.
And last year we ended around $88 million.
This year probably closer to -- a little bit less than $140 million some of that driven by the capital spending on our e-cigarette project Vuse.
So we'll continue to watch it and as you know it doesn't benefit us significantly taking up a lot of debt and just carrying that cash because it tends to be very expensive.
Research Division</strong> And what about the view around liability management at all? Is that something that you evaluated? I know you discussed it at the Analyst Meeting.
We obviously look at that.
And at this juncture we're actually very comfortable with where we are.
And we have a $750 million revolving credit facility that we can access.
And so we're -- we believe that we're in good shape from a liquidity standpoint.
Our next question is from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One if you could comment Dan on the consumer behavior in the quarter as it progressed? And how that behavior tracked versus your expectations going into the year with the known challenges? Yes I think I've referenced obviously those 2 things that I mentioned earlier which is our payroll tax holiday and the gas price shock.
And I think really the way we looked at it was the consumer really had kind of just a shock hit to their disposable income.
And it would have been the sticker shock when they actually tried to fill up their gas tanks at retail and particularly made the first paychecks that hit in January.
And -- but I also think it's fair to say that that was the initial shock.
It did recover during the quarter.
And so we saw nice recovery as the quarter sort of went out and that happened week in week out during the quarter.
So really from my perspective the year started out significantly weaker than we might have expected but happy to report that we saw some sequential week-over-week kind of improvement on that throughout the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then do you anticipate any SC equivalent reports responses this year? Is there any kind of update on that progress on the SC front? Oh Anne how much I wish I had a very good and specific answer for you there.
But honestly I think it's anybody's guess at this stage.
We're not getting -- how would I say -- significant indications or clear indications from the agency as to when we might see some actual rulings or the SCs coming out.
I would say that there are significant interaction in terms of some of the requests for information going back and forth about the specific items that we had submitted on existing SCs.
Our next question is from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you talked about the sequential volume improvement over the course of the quarter.
What did pricing and discounting look like? Did that deteriorate to help the volumes? Or was it just more macro? Can you give us more color on that? Yes it felt really that it was a macro category kind of rebounding somewhat during the quarter.
Don't believe it was actually promotional spend-led.
We would characterize the quarter in aggregate as being relatively stable.
So still very competitive but relatively stable from a total promotional pressure point of view.
Research Division</strong> And so -- by that do you also mean just in terms of over the course of the quarter it was stable? And how does it look so far into April? I mean do you have any signs to see a turn? Or is it holding up into Q2 as well? Yes I think the promotional environment really -- there wasn't any significant shift during the quarter.
And I think that that has for all intents and purposes held to-date.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just one other question on e-cigarettes.
I know you've said you'll have more to come but do you have any more specific sense of timing? Or when some of the launch and related spending might get going? Well I'm not at liberty to give you the exact timing of our plans.
But I think it's fair to say that that is quite imminent in terms of our activities with our Vuse e-cigarette.
And this is a product that we're quite proud of just because it is quite a innovative product.
We believe that it is significantly differentiated than anything in the category today.
And we think it actually addresses consumer needs better than anything in the category.
In terms of the associated spend with it I do think it's fair to say that we have begun already to make some of those investments as we get ready for it.
In terms of our income statement you'll actually see that reflected in the All Other Line in terms of some of those spends flowing through.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Chris Ferrara from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Hey a pretty simple question.
I guess there doesn't seem to be a consensus view on this so I thought I'd ask.
Hypothetically a $0.94 SET increase is that good for you in the category? Or bad for you in the category? And is that something you typically would lobby against? I think it's not a good development for the category.
The category has a price sensitivity of demand which has held relatively constant and obviously it may not hold week to week or exact a quarter-to-quarter but in aggregate year-over-year has remained relatively constant.
And so any type of additional taxation that drives consumer prices up is a negative drag on the category.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I just wanted to make sure.
I guess Dan you talked about liking the direction the portfolio is trending.
I think your point was just that you've seen a leveling out of the nongrowth brands.
I guess can you characterize what you'd view as sort of at risk share? Now that it's only 1/3 of your share points and I know Doral is the majority of what's losing share now.
What are the at risk share points? Like what are you willing to lose? And when might you see this level out? Research Division</strong> Well I think we look at it certainly from a trending point of view.
And given that we look at it that way I think your observation and conclusions are correct in the sense that the support and nonsupport brands i.e everything excluding Camel and Pall Mall at RJRT that the trend lines appear to be getting a little bit better particularly when we back out the Doral brand which is accounting for the majority of the decline.
And given a lot of the pricing pressure in the category and the advent of this new price tier and we call it premium value price tiers these are low-price line extensions of the 2 largest premium brands in the markets specifically Marlboro and Newport.
I think it's not surprising some of these dynamics and what's actually happened on our support and nonsupport brands and particularly what's happened to Doral.
It does feel like the category is slowly coming to a new equilibrium within it.
And of course we are very focused on our growth brands at RJRT particularly Camel and Pall Mall which posted nice year-over-year growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last one.
You said obviously the year didn't start off well it started to recover.
And I apologize if you said this but is there any change to what your view is on the full year '13 industry sort of cigarette volume outlook? No I think our estimate is still at the moment is served roughly in line with historical tendencies.
So you'd be looking at right about 3% long-term.
Having said that we'll need to see how the category continues to recover over time as to whether it will be slightly over that or slightly below that.
Our next question is from -- we have a follow-up from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick.
I was just looking at my notes from some of the other companies.
And they're indicating there's 1 less day this quarter and so I'm just trying to understand the 2 days that you're talking about versus the 1 day that they're alluding to for this first quarter? Yes.
I'm not sure I know how to square that Nik.
All I can tell you is that we had 2 fewer shipping days during the quarter.
And we'll make up 1 in the second quarter and 1 in the third quarter.
So it kind of works itself out by the end of the year.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call over to Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
Should you have any additional questions please give us a call here at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the second quarter and first half of 2013 as well as our outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
I'm very happy with our results in the second quarter which contributed to solid growth in RAI's earnings and margins for the first half of the year.
In addition we announced a dividend increase of almost 7% in May and that's further evidence of our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
I'm especially pleased by the excellent performance of our operating companies which continue to successfully navigate a tough environment while building momentum on their key brands.
Second quarter adjusted operating income improved at all of our companies and they also delivered big gains in the market share of their key brands.
In fact the combined cigarette market share of RAI's operating companies was stable in the quarter as the growth in key brands offset declines on the other non-focus brands.
Expertise efficiency and just plain hard work contributed to these results.
But perhaps the most critical thing our companies have going for them is their strategic focus.
We have the strategies in place that will enable us to meet and even exceed the expectations of adult consumers.
Key to that is our company's leadership and innovation in our industry.
The most recent demonstration of that leadership is the development of Vuse a game-changing digital e-cigarette.
As many of you know we announced last month that Vuse distribution will be expanded to its first major market Colorado.
Today I'm happy to report that this expansion is underway.
In the coming months we expect to gain valuable insights on the long-term potential of this exciting new product.
And with the expansion of Vuse we will obviously have more investment in the back half of the year.
Vuse delivers a digital vapor experience that is significantly superior to competitive products in this fast-growing category.
And like all innovative new products it will take RJR Vapor some time to build what we believe will be a commanding presence in the e-cigarette market.
So it's still early days for Vuse but we'll have a lot more to report later in the year.
As we've said previously building new platforms for long-term growth especially the highly differentiated Vuse e-cigarette takes significant resources.
And this increase in spending is reflected in our earnings guidance for the full year.
This morning we reaffirmed our guidance of adjusted EPS growth in the range of 6% to 11% above last year's adjusted results.
I'd note that our guidance also reflects investments in the equity building initiatives for our company's key cigarette and moist-snuff brands.
During the quarter a big development on the external front was the FDA's first rulings on substantial equivalence.
The agency did not rule on any substantial equivalent submissions made to date by R.J.
Reynolds but we're encouraged by the FDA's progress on this front.
And we continue to work closely with the agency on a wide range of tobacco regulatory issues.
Now before I discuss the quarter's business performance in more depth let me add some perspective to the industry's cigarette volume decline which is running above historical trends this year.
As a reminder industry volume declined 2.3% last year which was lower than the historical trends and makes for a tougher comparison this year.
High unemployment higher retail cigarette prices and other economic factors continue to impact consumers' wallets and remained the key drivers of this volume decline.
More smokers are also switching to moist snuff and snus as demonstrated by the strong growth that we see in these categories.
That's been a big benefit for Grizzly and Camel SNUS.
And although new smoke-free technologies such as e-cigarettes are still a very small market compared to traditional cigarettes some smokers are clearly migrating to these products and the e-cigarette market is growing fast.
Hereto we are well positioned to take advantage of this growth with Vuse.
The precise impact of these factors on industry cigarette volumes is hard to quantify at this point but they are having an impact.
Industry volume declines have moderated since the first quarter and we expect an overall decline of 4% to 5% this year.
Not surprisingly the lower demand for cigarettes negatively impacted R.J.
Reynolds in the second quarter but this was more than offset by higher pricing and lower MSA costs.
In fact the company reported substantial gains in both adjusted operating income and margin.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter shipment volumes declined 6% from the prior year quarter while industry volumes were down 6.1%.
As you may recall wholesale inventories were significantly higher in the second quarter last year as some wholesalers were speculating on a price increase.
This year the price increase came in early June and inventory levels had returned to more normal levels by the end of the quarter.
When adjusted for wholesale inventory changes industry cigarette volumes were down about 4.3% in the quarter.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 7.1 billion units at the end of the second quarter down about 1.3 billion from the prior year while R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 2 billion were down about 200 million.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share of 26% was down 0.3 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
I would note that the company's total share decline continued to moderate as growth brand share gains largely offset declines on the company's non-focus brands.
Indeed both Camel and Pall Mall performed extremely well in what was still a very competitive marketplace.
I should add here that generally speaking the promotional environment remains relatively stable.
During the second quarter Camel and Pall Mall increased their combined market share by almost 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter to 17.6%.
This is a record for the combined brands and is testament to the effectiveness of the company's portfolio strategy which focuses on these 2 growth brands.
Camel's market share increased 0.4 of a percentage point in the quarter to 8.7%.
And once again Camel's premium menthol styles which use the innovative capsule technology were a key factor in the brand's strong performance.
These menthol styles added 0.6 of a percentage point in market share from the prior year quarter and stand at 3.4%.
And I'm very pleased with how the brand's capsule styles are continuing to strengthen Camel's demographic profile.
In addition Camel SNUS maintained its lead on the growing snus category despite significant competitive promotional activity.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to enhance this product with innovations like the fresh seal packaging that was introduced earlier this year.
Now turning to Pall Mall.
The brand continues to build market momentum with share growing 0.5 a percentage point in the second quarter to 8.9%.
Pall Mall is benefiting from its expanded menthol portfolio while identifying new opportunities for additional trial and conversion.
Value-conscious smokers know a great deal when they see it.
And Pall Mall is a longer lasting cigarette at an affordable price fits the bill.
And at American Snuff.
The company's strong growth continued to pace in the second quarter with a double-digit increase in adjusted operating income and higher operating margin.
American Snuff second quarter moist snuff volume increased by nearly 9.5% which was once again well ahead of the industry's growth rate of about 5%.
And the company's market share also gained increasing 0.7 of a percentage point to just over 33%.
Grizzly strengthened its position as the nation's #1 moist-snuff brand reporting an increase of 10.6% in the second quarter shipment volume.
And the brands market share of 30% was up a full percentage point.
Grizzly's pouch sales helped drive the brand's momentum as pouch styles rose just over 1 percentage point in the second quarter and captured almost 80% of total share growth in the pouch segment.
Competition is still intense in the moist-snuff category but the fundamental strength of Grizzly combined with a great marketing and sales team allowed the brand to deliver excellent results.
So that wrapped up an excellent first half for American Snuff.
But not to be outdone Santa Fe had another terrific quarter.
The company's performance benefited from higher volume and pricing which drove double-digit growth in adjusted operating income.
Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand continues to strengthen its position in the super premium priced cigarette market offering distinctive additive-free natural tobacco styles including styles made with organic tobacco.
The brand increased volume by 14.6% from the prior year quarter and its share of market rose 0.3 of a percentage point to 1.4%.
So all in all it was a very successful quarter for RAI and its operating companies.
We have a good wind at our backs which positions us well for the rest of the year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American delivered a solid set of results in the second quarter wrapping up the first half with excellent momentum.
And I'm pleased to say we also further enhanced shareholder value in the quarter with a 6.8% increase in our dividend to an annualized $2.52 per share.
RAI's adjusted EPS benefited from a number of factors in the second quarter including higher cigarette and moist snuff pricing lower MSA cost promotional efficiencies and the impact of our share repurchase program.
As a result RAI's adjusted EPS increased 6.3% from the prior year quarter to $0.84.
These adjusted results exclude a onetime benefit of $0.02 related to 2 additional states joining the NPM settlement as well as charges of $0.01 for Engle progeny other tobacco-related litigation and $0.01 for implementation costs.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was also $0.84 up 7.7% from the prior year quarter.
That brought RAI's first half adjusted EPS to $1.56 up 10.6% from the prior year period.
And those adjusted results also exclude the items I've just mentioned.
On a reported basis first half adjusted EPS was $1.76 up almost 42%.
RAI's adjusted operating margin continued to strengthen coming in at 36.6% for both the second quarter and the first half.
So that successful performance keeps us on track to deliver full year adjusted EPS in the range of $3.15 to $3.30.
And as Dan said that's growth of 6% to 11% over last year's adjusted EPS.
Our guidance excludes the onetime benefit from the NPM partial settlement and the charges for implementation costs Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
Our guidance also reflects the investments being made to expand Vuse e-cigarettes as well as equity-building initiatives for our company's key brands.
Now I'll turn to our operating companies performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedule at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds turned in good results increasing adjusted operating income by 9.8% to $662 million.
For the first half adjusted operating income came to just over $1.2 billion.
With the focus still very much on balancing profitability and share R.J.
Reynolds second quarter adjusted operating margin increased 3.9 percentage points to 36.9% and that brought first half adjusted operating margin to 36.5%.
At American Snuff the second quarter was supported by higher pricing and strong volume growth.
Accordingly the company increased adjusted operating income by just over 15% from the prior year quarter to $109 million.
That brought first half adjusted operating income to $202 million up nearly 13%.
American Snuff's second quarter adjusted operating margin increased by 1.1 percentage points to 56.5% bringing the company's first half margin to 56.1%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company increased adjusted operating income 14% to $73 million in the second quarter.
For the first half Santa Fe's adjusted operating income rose by 14.6% to $125 million.
Santa Fe's second quarter adjusted operating margin remained relatively stable at 49.2% with first half margin at 47.5%.
Now finally there are several other financial highlights that I would like to cover.
RAI purchased 3.1 million shares for $150 million under the share repurchase plan bringing total repurchases under the program to 41.7 million shares for $1.8 billion.
The company ended the quarter with $1.7 billion in cash balances and this takes into account R.J.
Reynolds' MSA payment of $2.1 billion in April.
RAI borrowed $500 million under their previously announced term loan agreement.
And lastly RAI contributed $50 million to its pension plans in July and those plans remained well-funded at about 90% on a PBO basis.
So we're pleased with a very successful first half for RAI and its operating companies and we expect to make continued progress over the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A few things.
First Dan what do you think a reasonable expectation going forward is now for the rate of U.S.
cigarette industry volume decline if you look out next year let's say? Yes.
I think first of all David maybe just a little bit of perspective on what has happened so far this year.
And I think we're still predicting that 4% to 5% decline this year.
And of course we need to put that into perspective because it's a tough compare to last year as I mentioned in my remarks.
But really when we look further out over time I think it's likely that we're going to see a number that's sort of around that 4% kind of decline.
Maybe a little bit more moderated compared to what we see in this year.
Somewhere between that and the historical average.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly with the news out of the FDA yesterday with respect to menthol does the totality of what happened and all the information does that affect at all your assessment the internal assessment of what the FDA might ultimately do with respect to menthol or the timing of any ultimate action? No.
I don't think so David.
I mean we're reviewing this advance notice of -- this proposed rule making.
I think once we really have a chance to look at it and fully review the report in detail then we can actually make some decisions about our response.
I think we trust and actually we take the agency at its word that it will rely on sound science when making decisions about menthol.
But I think it's also fair to say that this regulatory process takes time and this is really just the first step.
And so as such I don't think we expect any impact on the marketplace in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other things.
A $0.15 guidance range you have 5 or 6 months left in the year.
The tails of that outcome are quite different growth rates.
What put you at the high end do you think? What put you at the low end of that range in retrospect as you go through the year? Is it the spending on Vuse? Is it the competitive environment with the cigarette categories? Are those probably the 2 principal things and uncertainties? I think David it's more of the latter than the former.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then lastly and maybe for Tom can you quantify the magnitude of the incremental ongoing reduction in MSA costs from 2 additional states coming into the agreement? On an annualized basis David I believe it's about $15 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so that would be the incremental 2013 favorability? Yes.
Annualized basis.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with Vuse.
I recognized it really is very early days but I was wondering if you could give us some insight into the rollout thus far in terms of store penetration or store count and any initial consumer response? Yes.
Vivien I think maybe it's a little bit early to talk about consumer response to Vuse because it's really being rolled out as we speak.
I think we're really sort of building up distribution and sort of have a week-to-week plan.
I think the first week out I think we were hitting about 500 stores and really looking to increase that sort of sequentially as we go week by week.
I think the response from the trade I can give you a few insights on so really from retailers has been extremely positive.
So happy to report that.
But I really think it's a little bit premature on the consumer side but certainly we can give you more insights on that front really over the coming weeks and months.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And as follow-up to that in terms of the product placement is a lot of that happening on the back bar or is it standalone displays for the products? No.
It really is exclusively on the back bar.
Of course given our responsibility platform it's really a clerk-assisted sale at retail.
So the actual display of the product is in back bar.
Now there are merchandising materials that are on the counter or inside the store but that isn't live product.
Research Division</strong> And my final question on has -- again is on Vuse.
And I'm just curious is it fair to assume that Colorado will be your only state in 2013 or are you considering a possibility of adding another state in the year? Yes.
Vivien I think it would be a little bit premature for me to telegraph our plans on that front.
But just as a general comment what I would make is that we're looking to expand distribution as quick as we can.
And our next question comes from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
This is actually [indiscernible] Thilo's associate.
The question around RJRT it looks like in 2010 share losses stabilized because you shut down your private label business.
Since then they've averaged a loss of about 70 bps per year if my math is correct.
When can we expect kind of stabilization to happen again? And when do you expect it? Well let me take that and sort of talk about our quarterly and year-to-date numbers from a share perspective.
If we take a look at what's actually happened so far this year and take a look at the actual quarter what we see is RJRT in totality actually coming down 0.3 of a market share point.
So what we see is fantastic growth on Camel and Pall Mall.
They're collectively up just shy of a share point this year and we see continued declines on the nonsupport and support brands.
And that principally accounted for by Doral.
As a brand Doral which is down 0.4 of a market share point and that brand is now slightly under 1% share of market.
But of course from a corporate perspective we also have the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company with its key growth brand Natural American Spirit which is actually up 0.3.
So when we look at cigarettes in total between the 2 operating companies and the 2 segments that we report out we see in aggregate this quarter market share was actually stable.
And then in your Schedule 1 I see all other had an EBIT loss of $19 million.
Is this the start up cost from Vuse? And off of that can I expect further losses for the rest of the year? Can I expect further loss for the rest of the year? This is Tom.
Yes the Vapor company is included in all other.
And yes I think it's safe to assume that that will be a negative for the rest of the year.
Okay.
And just lastly in terms of Camel Crush is there any expected impact on Camel Crush from Marlboro NXT expansion? And then off of that is there more competition or more competitive pressure/attention being paid to the capsule segment? What are your thoughts on that? Yes.
I think the Marlboro NXT product we already see it in about half the country as we sit here today.
And actually if we -- if you look at past quarterly sort of performance on the capsule side which we report out every quarter it's actually continued to do quite well including in the areas where Marlboro NXT was already launched.
So I think at this stage it's a safe assumption.
We'll need to see what actually happens in the marketplace but we're confident in our ability to keep growing the menthol styles on Camel.
Our next question comes from Jacob Feinstein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Jacob Feinstein on behalf of Judy Hong.
Just a question about the promotional competitive environment.
How would you describe it now compared to where it's been over the last 18 months? And do you see new products coming out whether it is Marlboro NXT or Newport Gold? Does that change your strategy or how you're going to approach that dynamic? Yes.
I think maybe -- let me give you a little bit of a perspective on how I see that competitive dynamics.
I would still describe the category and I believe you're referring specifically to the cigarette category but I'll also address moist snuff within that.
But I see the competitiveness it's still a very competitive marketplace.
I think the big sort of new news in the category or what's maybe a little bit different than this time last year is that the amount of expenditure being plowed back into the marketplace in the form of discounting and on-pack promotions has not increased significantly year-over-year.
And that of course is a different dynamic than where we're at about 12 months ago.
So from that point of view it's more stable because there isn't a significant increases.
But I would still describe it as being highly competitive out there.
And then I think on the moist snuff side it's actually relatively similar.
There is still a lot of resources being applied back to the category and in both cases in cigarettes and in moist snuffs it's really the advent of this premium value category.
But there isn't as many new additional resources being applied back.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's great.
And if I could just ask did you have the benefit of one extra shipping day in the quarter as you had previously called out? And going forward what it going to be kind of the cadence of the shipping days for the rest of the year and then into the first half of '14? Yes.
I think really if we take a look at the sort of inventory side if you remember the holiday period it actually fell right at the end of the first quarter into the second.
So really I think maybe the best way to look at the industry dynamic is really to have a look at it from a totality sort of a year-to-date so if you add the first and second quarter.
And when we do that you end up with a cigarette industry of volume decline that is actually about 5.3% down when we adjust for inventory.
That's year-to-date okay.
And then of course within that I think we did have 1 extra shipping day in the second quarter.
But of course that isn't an extra day of consumption from a consumer point of view.
So that's really just the pipeline of catching up to ongoing consumption.
And our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a question on Camel and Pall Mall.
I was hoping you could give us just a little bit more color on some of the key drivers behind the momentum that you're seeing? And how would you characterize the competitive environment particularly with regards to down trading in light of Pall Mall's volume growth and the share gains? And then I'd be curious if you could talk about where some of these share gains are coming from? Okay.
Well let me take each brand in turn.
First of all Camel year-over-year was actually up 0.4.
And on a year-to-date basis it's actually up 0.2.
So I think it was a good quarter for Camel.
And largely this is reflective of the strong equity of the brand.
If you remember some of my earlier comments in the year we are actually investing a little bit more in the equity of Camel and that was part -- sort of embedded in our guidance this year.
We also see superior dynamics on sort of demographics on the brand and so it's doing quite well and it's firing all cylinders.
And I'm happy to see that 0.4 of a market share growth.
From a Pall Mall perspective it's actually up 0.5 a share point in the quarter and also 0.5 a share point on the year-to-date basis.
And so from that point of view it's doing quite well.
I think the brand -- it basically is a great product proposition.
I've talked to you in the past about this longer-lasting cigarette technology at an affordable price.
Now when we look of those growth rates they are still south of some of the growth rates that we're reported back in 2009 and 2010.
I think the brand had kind of flattened or it stalled a little bit from a growth perspective in a very competitive marketplace sort of a 12 to 18 months ago and happy to report some moderate levels of share gains today.
And you also had a question about down trading.
I think we still see a little bit of down trading in the cigarette category but it's not as marked as it was 12 months ago.
This is largely because of the absence of significant incremental resources being plowed back into those propositions in the marketplace.
So I think all the trends in the category are a bit more muted.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on menthol Dan I was hoping if you could give us an idea of what your market share of the menthol category is? And then I'd love to hear your thoughts on maybe what would happen to the industry and how consumers might react if say for instance the FDA does ultimately recommend that the levels of menthol need to be reduced over time? Just one potential outcome.
Yes.
I think from a volume point of view Bonnie it's about 1/3 of our volume is actually in the menthol category.
I think it would be sort of very premature for me to speculate on the eventuality of what might happen given potential sort of regulatory pressure in the future.
I think we're obviously reviewing this FDA announcement yesterday very closely.
We're going to engage very constructively with the agency on this issue as it goes.
But I would just remind everybody on the call that the process of the FDA is actually laid out it's well-known.
And it's going to take some time to be done right.
So we really as a company are planning to constructively engage both on the process and really on the outcome.
Yes and we've all concluded in the past that having movement from our regulators is preferable to not having any.
And really I think this report was sort of the predicted next step.
So I think rather than to speculate as to what might happen I think we're really focusing on engaging constructively.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then just my final question is on your pipeline behind some of your key brands.
I guess I'm trying to get a sense of the expected innovation on to these brands for the remainder of the year and as we look into 2014? Curious to hear if you're being hindered by or limited by the substantial equivalence approval process in anyway? Well Bonnie I think you know in terms of the pipeline and what we have been able to achieve to date it's obviously very difficult for me to telegraph some of the other plans that we have in mind in the marketplace into the future.
But I do think as a company right now we're very much focused on the Vuse digital vapor cigarette the one we recently talked about in New York.
And that really is sort of job one as we sit here today.
And our next question comes Tim Milway from BlackRock.
Are you sponsoring or conducting your own research into the safety vapor of e-cigarettes in particular the secondhand exposure? It seems to be a challenge to the product segment as I continue to read about bans most recently on the trains in New York City? Yes.
We've looked at this product in many different ways and we continue to do research on this category and we're also actively engaging with regulators on these issues.
And our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your share trends.
I know you've got the sequential stabilization in this first half first to second quarter.
Just looking a little longer term obviously your support brands have been a bit of a drag.
Where do you see that going? I mean honestly I figured to be a smaller part of your portfolio it's less of a headwind but you've had Pall Mall pick up a lot of that to try to keep you closer to whole.
Net your down over 250 basis points since early '09 how much more can Pall Mall go? Where is it sourcing share from? And can it more than compensate for the losses in the support brands? How do you think about that dynamic? Yes.
I think a couple of things.
First of all on the losses I think a significant proportion and for -- if you take a look at over a number of quarters that a significant proportion of the losses were actually coming from the value brand Doral.
That brand is now below 1 share of market and this last quarter actually it was down 0.4 so 0.4 of a market share point year-over-year.
So it's actually from a decline trend is suffering more poorly than some of the other support and nonsupport brands.
From a Pall Mall perspective I think we posted some modest growth in terms of -- it's up 0.5 share point as you noted.
It's sourcing -- certainly some of it is coming from those support and nonsupport brands.
But it actually sources consumers quite broadly in the marketplace.
And so really we look at that dynamic on Pall Mall as being independent largely from some of the losses on the support and nonsupport brands.
And we see good long-term prospects for Pall Mall in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> It certainly is up a lot.
I mean it's about a 9 share from a closer to 2 in just a few years ago.
But if you've also seen -- if you've seen more of your support brand share erode what does Pall Mall have to be as -- I mean to get to be an Newport-sized brand? Or how much headroom does it have and how much investment does it take to keep that gaining share and having momentum there? Yes.
I think Pall Mall really there was no significant incremental resources that's actually led to the recent performance.
I think it's obviously how many -- how much resources and how much focus we put on it relative to the categories.
So I'm actually quite pleased.
I think we can continue to grow this brand at moderate levels into the future.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just my last one.
You're now a little less than a year away from shareholder rights plan and the BAT non-compete expiring.
Do you expect any changes coming when you cross any of those deadlines or anything that might be coming out in any of that? I think that would be sort of highly speculative from my point of view.
I think if you take a look at the documentation at some of the public available information on the issue that's sort of clear in its own right.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I dialed in a little bit late so I'm not sure if you addressed some of the questions.
But first Dan just in terms of the industry trends so I think you're saying year-to-date industry is down 5.3% adjusted for inventory.
Obviously you'd called out some of the headwinds in the first quarter with e-cigs and a weak consumer.
But just your view about how sort of the industry plays out for the balance of the year? And some of the headwinds either from a consumer perspective and some of these other products within total tobacco? Do you expect that to accelerate and the cigarette industry being -- maybe the decline accelerating as we go forward kind of your view on the industry outlook? If I look at the outlook and really for the year my estimate would be that it's going to be down somewhere in that 4% to 5% range.
I think some of the key things impacting so far I mean one is the tough compare really to last year.
Where if you remember last year the category the cigarette category was actually down below trend.
And so that relative year-on-year makes it a relatively tough compare.
I would remind everybody that we ended the quarter with relatively normalized levels of inventory.
I do think that the economic factors continue to influence consumption out there as they impact consumers.
And also if you take a look from a consumer point of view year-on-year there are higher cigarette prices this year.
And remember last year was a relatively -- from a pricing point of view there was a hiatus really for the consumer.
I do think that migration to other categories does influence the total cigarette category.
But within that I'd emphasize that it's not just e-cigarettes which we read a lot about but it's also moist snuff and snus.
And then also if we take a look at the sort of trends the trend did improve in the second quarter when we compared that to the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just clarification on your comment about your second quarter shipments versus consumption.
So I know your competitor called out a pretty big gap between their underlying consumption volume versus shipments citing the inventory movement at the trade level.
Did you have the similar negative impact on your shipments with the inventory deloading in the second quarter and do you think that reverses in the back half? Okay.
Here's the way I would look at it and maybe Judy what I'll do is I'll give you a couple of numbers that are kind of year-to-date and sort of aggregate the first and second quarters.
And that's because of that holiday how it fell right at the end of the first quarter.
So if we just take the first half we see the cigarette industry down inventory adjusted 5.3%.
Then if we take a look at how we performed against that first at RJRT they were down slightly over 6% in the first half of the year from a volume point of view.
And at the same time at the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company they were up about 20% inventory adjusted in the first half.
So when we net out those 2 numbers and we look at it from a corporation point of view both those companies in aggregate we were down about 5.3%.
So very much in line with the industry.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then just lastly on your Vuse launch.
Obviously it's early in terms of your July going into Colorado.
But what kind of feedback are you getting on the July trends? Any color that you can give us in terms of what you're doing there from a marketing perspective? Yes.
Judy I really think it's a little bit premature to talk about it from a consumer point of view.
And of course I'll just reiterate some of the comments I made recently in New York is we're really really focused on the convergence of this product.
It's not just the trial generated which we believe is going to be relatively easy to obtain but it's really about the regular conversion to this product as being still characterized as being low in the category today and we're certainly hoping to improve upon that.
I can tell you that from a trade perspective so really from wholesale and particularly from the retail community the reception has been very very positive.
And so that obviously sort of gives us a lot of enthusiasm going forward.
And I'm showing no one else in the queue at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us for our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll review Reynolds American's results for the third quarter and 9 months as well as our revised guidance for the full year.
Our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
And I'm sure you saw in our press release this morning RAI made outstanding progress in the third quarter.
The company delivered higher third quarter earnings and margins resulting in an excellent year-to-date performance.
This was driven by strong performance of our operating companies where a transformation strategy is more relevant today than ever.
Once again R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe each improved earnings while increasing the market share of their powerful key brands.
The economic and competitive environment remains challenging but I'm pleased to say that our companies are finding new opportunities for profitable growth and they're well positioned for the rest of the year.
As a result we have tightened our full year earnings guidance and now expect growth in adjusted EPS of 7% to 10%.
I should note that our guidance includes significant investments in the equity building initiative of our company's key cigarette and moist-snuff brands.
It also includes investments for the Vuse digital vapor cigarettes which will continue to build in the fourth quarter.
Before I go into more detail on our third quarter performance overall I'd like to bring you up-to-date on Vuse.
And it's great having good news to share right off the bat.
As you know R.J.
Reynolds vapor expanded its Vuse e-cigarette to Colorado.
And while it's still early days the results are significantly exceeding our expectations.
Vuse is getting a great reception from consumers and retailers and the brand has already taken the market-leading position in the state.
Since Vuse went into Colorado in July we have seen a significant expansion of the e-cigarette category.
And we're seeing -- and this is important we're seeing high levels of repeat purchase of Vuse with the replacement cartridges being its largest selling SKU.
This is a clear sign that adult tobacco consumers are adopting Vuse which gives us confidence in the sustainability of the category.
Of course we are excited by the very positive interest but we're not that surprised.
Innovation has always been one of our key competitive advantages and Vuse is proven to be a clear demonstration of that.
Vuse is a highly differentiated product that delivers a superior vaping experience.
It's a satisfying and great tasting product that's combined with consistent and reliable performance.
These high standards of quality are absolutely key to increasing the rate of e-cigarette conversion.
And we believe that by giving adult smokers what they're looking for Vuse will be a leader in this emerging market.
Vuse is the first and only e-cigarette that's designed and assembled in the U.S.
and is the first fully digital vapor product powered by smart technology.
Vuse also draws on the expertise of a company that's been meeting the expectations of adult tobacco consumers for well over 100 years.
The successful results so far in Colorado bode well for Vuse's national rollout plans.
And we'll have a lot more to report on the brands progress at our Investor Day presentation next month.
Now let's turn to the quarter's business performance in more depth.
At R.J.
Reynolds higher cigarette pricing and lower MSA cost contributed to higher adjusted operating income and margin.
I'm pleased to report that Camel and Pall Mall continued to gain momentum in the third quarter despite the competitive environment.
Their combined market share rose 0.7 percentage points to 17.8%.
These brands now account for almost 70% of the company's total share and they'll continue to grow as a percentage of total share in line with the company's portfolio strategy.
I must say Camel is performing extremely well as a premium priced brand.
Camel share increased 8.9% of market 0.4 share points higher than the year-ago quarter.
This growth has been driven by Camel's premium menthol styles which were the first cigarette styles to offer the innovative capsule technology.
The brand's menthol styles gained 0.5 percentage points in third quarter market share growing to 3.5%.
Turning to Camel's innovative smokeless offerings.
Camel SNUS remains the leading brand in the growing SNUS category with share of nearly 80%.
Camel Frost is the best-selling style of SNUS in America.
And just last month R.J.
Reynolds broadened the portfolio by expanding Camel Frost Large into national distribution.
The Large style contains 70% more tobacco in each pouch than the regular Frost style while offering the same cool refreshing taste.
Enhancements like this are in response to changing adult tobacco consumer preferences and form part of our company's effort to offer smokers more smoke-free options.
Pall Mall also performed well in the quarter.
Pall Mall increased market share by 0.3 percentage points in the third quarter reaching 8.9%.
Pall Mall the industry's biggest value brand is also growing in the menthol category.
We're quite pleased by adult smokers' response to the brand's expanded menthol portfolio.
Pall Mall continues to attract interest from value conscious consumers in the weak economy but the brand's strong trial and conversion is directly attributable to its distinctive qualities as a longer-lasting cigarette that offers premium taste at an affordable price.
R.J.
Reynolds' saw cigarette volume declines continued to moderate during the third quarter with shipments down 4.3% from the prior year quarter.
For the industry cigarette volumes were in line with the year-ago quarter.
But after adjusting for wholesale inventory changes as well as 1 extra shipping day R.J.
Reynolds estimates that industry volumes declined about 3.5%.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 7.8 billion units at the end of the third quarter up about 100 million from the prior year quarter.
While R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.9 billion were down about 100 million.
The decline in R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share also continued to ease as the gains in the company's growth brands mitigated declines on its other brands.
R.J.
Reynolds' total third quarter market share was 26% down 0.5 percentage points from the prior year quarter and in line with the second quarter of this year.
At American Snuff higher moist-snuff volume and pricing helped drive growth in the company's third quarter operating income while its margin remained strong.
American Snuff moist-snuff volume again outpaced industry growth in the quarter increasing by more than 7% compared with the industry's growth of about 5%.
As a result the company's market share added a substantial 1.2 percentage points to 33.4%.
Grizzly the nation's best-selling moist-snuff brand continues to demonstrate stellar performance.
And the brand carved out further gains in both volume and market share.
Grizzly's third quarter shipment volume increased 8.3% while the brand's market share jumped 1.6 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 30.4%.
Grizzly's momentum was driven by strong interest in the brand's pouch styles as well as its wintergreen offerings.
Like all our company's key brands Grizzly is benefiting from ongoing equity building initiatives and effective consumer and customer engagement.
Now turning to Santa Fe which also posted another great quarter.
The company's volume and pricing growth drove an increase of almost 30% in operating income with margin of more than 50%.
The growth of Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand remains very strong as the brand's distinctive additive-free natural tobacco styles including some made with organic tobacco continued to build a loyal consumer franchise.
Natural American Spirit increased volume by almost 22% in the third quarter.
And the brand's market share was up 0.3 percentage points at a record 1.5%.
And we're proud to announce that NAS is now a top 10 brand in the market.
So that wraps up the quarter's key achievements.
I am very pleased by how RAI and its operating companies are progressing and I'm confident that we'll finish up the year in strong form.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
By many measures it's clear that Reynolds American and its operating companies just reported their strongest quarter of the year.
These results incorporate the significant investments in positioning our company's key brands for long-term growth through equity building initiatives as well as for the expansion of Vuse.
These investments along with the solid earnings growth the company has delivered reflect the disciplined approach we've taken with the proceeds of the partial NPM settlement earlier this year.
And as we said at the beginning of the year we are committed to leveraging this opportunity for long-term sustainable growth.
Before I cover the financials for the quarter I would like to touch on the September arbitration panel rulings on the remaining 2003 NPM disputed payments.
The arbitration panel ruled that 6 states had not diligently enforced their qualifying statutes in 2003 related to R.J.
Reynolds' NPM adjustment claim for that year.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds believes that it is entitled to approximately $266 million plus interest and earnings under the Master Settlement Agreement.
While the company expects to receive these funds given the uncertainty of the timing and the process no amount has been recognized in the third quarter.
Consequently these amounts will be recorded as appropriate when these uncertainties are resolved.
Now I'll turn to the financial performance.
RAI's adjusted EPS increased 8.9% from the prior year quarter to $0.86 as we continued to benefit from higher pricing lower MSA cost and the impact of our share repurchase program.
Adjusted results exclude $0.02 for Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
On a reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.84 up 13.5% from the prior year quarter.
For the first 9 months RAI's adjusted EPS was $2.42 up 9.5% from the prior year period.
And those adjusted results exclude the items I've just mentioned as well as implementation costs and the onetime benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement.
On a reported basis 9-month EPS was $2.60 up 31.3%.
RAI's adjusted operating margin made further gains in both periods with third quarter margin increasing 1.7 percentage points to 37.8% bringing the 9 months margin to 37%.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedule at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds kept its focus on balancing profitability and market share in the third quarter increasing adjusted operating income by 7.5% to $652 million.
That brought 9-month adjusted operating income to $1.9 billion up 8.7%.
The company's third quarter adjusted operating margin continued to see strong growth increasing 3.3 percentage points to 37.5%.
While the 9-month margin gained 3.8 percentage points to 36.8%.
At American Snuff third quarter operating income benefited from higher moist-snuff volumes and pricing.
Operating income rose 5.5% from the prior year quarter to $106 million.
And that brought 9-month adjusted operating income to $308 million up by more than 10%.
American Snuff's third quarter operating margin held strong at 57% with 9-month adjusted operating margin at 56.4%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company continued to deliver outstanding results increasing operating income by nearly 30% in the third quarter to $82 million on the strength of both volume and pricing gains.
For the 9 months Santa Fe's adjusted operating income increased by just over 20% to $207 million.
Santa Fe's third quarter operating margin came in at a strong 51%.
Finally I'd like to highlight a number of other financial items that demonstrate our commitment to a sound balance sheet and continued enhancements to shareholder value.
As you know RAI completed a successful $1.1 billion public offering of senior debt securities in September.
And last week the company completed the make-whole call of $975 million of debt that was scheduled to mature in 2015 and 2016.
We repaid $350 million on the term loan in the quarter.
And in early October we repaid the remaining $150 million.
And earlier this month RAI entered into a new revolving credit facility of $1.35 billion.
In addition R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Holdings repaid $60 million of debt that matured in August.
We continued to execute our share repurchase program with the purchase of 3 million shares for $150 million during the quarter bringing our total repurchases under the program to 44.7 million shares for $1.9 billion.
RAI ended the quarter with $2.7 billion in cash balances.
And the company contributed $50 million to its pension plans in July.
These plans remained well funded at about 90% on a PBO basis.
As Dan said earlier RAI's successful year-to-date performance allows us to tighten our full year guidance range.
And we're now expecting adjusted EPS of $3.17 to $3.27 which translates to growth of 7% to 10% over last year's adjusted EPS.
Our guidance excludes the onetime benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement and the charges for implementation costs Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
Our guidance also reflects the brand investments that I mentioned earlier.
So to wrap up we delivered strong results in the third quarter and our companies continue to build momentum on their key brands.
RAI is well positioned for the rest of the year and will remain focused on building value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Sayyid would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question for you in relation to the investments you're making behind the business.
And I wanted to be clear as you've invested back behind products such as Vuse and Zonnic and expanding their availability that certainly is I'm sure aided those businesses and those growth.
I'm curious about brands like Camel and Pall Mall and Santa Fe.
Are we seeing the benefits of that investment already? Should we expect still to improve as we go through the year? Maybe you could talk also about the phasing of the investment.
Are those expected to pick up at all in the fourth quarter versus where they've been the last couple of quarters? Chris yes this is Dan.
I think first of all the way we look at it certainly on the existing businesses I'm really excluding Vuse from this but in terms of the brand -- the brand equity spend that we've done on Camel on Grizzly and at Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company on the Natural American Spirit brand those where fairly evenly spread during the year so not really expecting additional tick up in the fourth quarter.
But of course for Vuse that's in a slightly different situation.
We actually went to marketing Colorado in July.
And so on that brand we would actually expect there to be a tick up in expenditure in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I had was as you look at the cigarette category the underlying performance this quarter backing out the changes in inventory and the shipping day and all that you've done around 3.5%.
So that was a little better than we saw in the first half of the year.
You've been talking about a negative 4% to negative 5% are you looking at more negative 4% now? Any general commentary on kind of the state of the category? It looks a little less competitive.
I'm just curious if you have any more thoughts on the category overall.
Yes let me start with the first part of the question.
I think you hit the number right on the head.
We've been seeing 4% to 5%.
I think it's fair to say it's going to come into closer to 4% now.
So we're at the low end of that range.
I'm very happy to kind of see the sequential improvement in terms of category performance after a very slow start to the category this year.
And I think probably the best numbers to focus on right now given the changes in shipping days by quarter and support is to look at the year-to-date number.
And when we do that what you actually see is the year-to-date including the third quarter coming in at 4.1%.
Then after we adjust for ship days and inventory coming in at negative 4.7%.
But again I would highlight just a sequential improvement in terms of the numbers as we go through the year.
And our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I know you'll get into more detail at the Analyst Day but I did want to touch back on Vuse again a little bit.
Is it the shipment share that you have leadership on? And can you give a little color on how much pipeline fill might have hit that? Or what the sell-through looks like compared to other competitors like Blu or NJOY? Yes Michael.
I think it's really early days for us.
But I think -- and certainly what I hope you picked up from our comments today and from the press release is we're truly very very excited in terms of what's going on in Colorado.
We of course had a little bit of a pipeline as we went out but I also think that that pipeline sold through very quickly.
We tracked really 3 sets of numbers which are our shipments into wholesale our shipments from wholesale to retail and retail offtake.
And by any measure I think we're doing extremely well in Colorado.
In fact we've been running significant out of stocks at retail certainly for the early part of the period.
So our conclusion is that really the sales are consumer generated and have been purchased by consumers.
And again to all the listeners on the call I'd really like to invite everybody to attend our Investor Day coming up next month.
We're going to really dissect some of the results in significant more detail than I will today.
And I think -- so really it's exciting time and more to come in terms of some of the announcements to you.
Research Division</strong> And just -- you mentioned out of stocks as far as how you think about the national rollout how much of that is potentially capacity constrained? Is that going drive some of the pacing like might you have a phased rollout? Or would you be able to go to the other 49 states at once? Or how are you thinking about that? Well I think it's a little bit early to make some of those announcements in terms of how we might roll out.
But I do think it's a fair comment today to say that we are capacity constrained.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last thing in terms of the category dynamics there has your launch into the state accelerated e-cigarette segment growth? And have you seen any noticeable impact on your base cigarette business as well? I think really 3 comments I would make.
One we believe we have achieved market leadership in the state so that would be the first one.
I think we are also seeing a significant expansion in the e-cigarette category in the state which is subsequent to our launch.
And then third is if I take you back to some of the comments that I made in New York during the actual celebration and as we're introducing you to the brand for the first time we talked a lot about the necessity there to generate repeat purchase and really ongoing adoption.
And what's interesting in terms of results that we're seeing in Colorado is that the sales of the cartridges only -- so these are the units that don't work unless you've actually also bought a unit with a battery -- a rechargeable battery with it but the cartridge only sales those SKUs had the largest selling SKU in Colorado today for us.
So my conclusion to that is that we are seeing significant repeat purchase and adoption on the brand.
And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First just going back to the cigarette category.
The moderation in terms of the industry decline that you saw more recently can you just give us perspective on what you think is driving that moderation? I know you gave us some numbers but sort of your thoughts on what's driving that moderation.
Yes my perspective on this Judy is that we're seeing sequential improvement.
Slowly the numbers are coming back into line with historical numbers.
So in a sense we need to look at what's going on in the market this year and compare it to last year as well.
And as you know last year was maybe an above trend so said a different way the category declined a little bit less than we might have expected last year.
And so we suffered a little bit from the comparison in aggregate this year.
The third quarter was a little bit of an easier comp compared to last year but I think the fundamental thing that we saw was some of the economic impact some of the taxation impact out of the gate this year.
And I believe one of the largest impacts that we had that impacted the category was actually the payroll tax holiday as well as some gas prices and things like that at the early part of the year.
And as those have moderated or been sort of assumed that worked out in people's sort of family budget we've seen an improvement in trend in the total category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just your assessment about the competitive dynamics in the cigarette industry.
If I look at your pricing it was up strongly year-over-year but sequentially it hasn't really gone up even with the list price increases.
So just wondering how you are assessing the competitive dynamics and sort of your thoughts on kind of the pricing in the industry.
Yes.
Here's the way I would describe it in a way I'm thinking about it currently Judy.
First of all if we start with the net price realization and we calculate that x the contract manufacturing that we do.
But in the quarter we saw 3.4% -- this is at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco 3.4% net price realization.
And on a year-to-date basis that's 3.6%.
So we believe that's a reasonable performance a quite strong performance for a net price realization.
I think the marketplace was kind of settled down into a new equilibrium it's the way I would describe it from a competitive point of view.
And now with -- one of the new launches from one of our competitors that is price relatively aggressively out there but it appears to sort of have a bit of a differential geographic footprint.
And I know our largest competitor has reacted to that in a moderate degree in my opinion as have we.
So I think everything sort of remains rational in the category as we sit here today.
And I would say that really the story of the equilibrium that we find ourselves in currently continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the difference in terms of the inventory behavior for the industries to your competitors and then just for your product because I guess the shipment performance or the shipment share looked worse than your retail share and it seems like that difference in terms of the inventory movements.
So can you just talk about what's driving that difference? Is it more timing related? And does that sort of reverse itself as your inventory comes up in the fourth quarter? Yes it's a great question Judy.
And if I take you back and sort of -- if we put ourselves first of all in the shoes of a wholesaler in this country the main reason why they might fluctuate in this volume over time is actually through price speculation.
So if they're expecting a price increase in the future they might actually load up on product then after a price increase happens they would actually unload and go back to more normal inventory levels.
We as a company -- I think uniquely we as a company try to discourage that behavior and we try to work with all our wholesalers so that they maintain as constant as possible of inventory.
And we have a belief that these inventory fluctuations actually create and wreak havoc on the supply chain because you're having to increase outputs through the supply chain in our production facilities.
And then when the unload starts happening you're having to idle machines and idle people as the thing comes back into balance.
So we have active programs out there to discourage wholesalers from loading up too much prior to price increases.
And that also means that the payback once the price increase happens is less for us.
And that I would say is the main dynamic that you can read into some of the numbers that you see and that we report every quarter in terms of wholesale inventories.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just lastly on Vuse spending so if we look at your corporate expenses I think the step-up was maybe about at $10 million kind of year-over-year.
Would you sort of attribute that increase to mostly the Vuse investment? And does that step up even further in the fourth quarter? Judy this is Tom.
It's actually in the other category the All Other is where the Vuse spending is.
Research Division</strong> So 50 million negative versus the 1 million negative last year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And most of that step up would be Vuse? Most of that is the step-up in Vuse.
And our next question comes from Ryan Oksenhendler from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I actually had a follow-up to Judy.
So I just want to make clear so was there any inventory adjustment on the minus 4.3% volume shipment in the quarter for you guys? Well if you remember in my prepared remarks we finished the quarter at 1.9 billion sticks in our inventories.
At wholesale we're down 100 million units.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And then can you talk about I guess Camel came in a little bit better than we expect in terms of volumes and Pall Mall was a little worse I guess how much was that -- the comps I know you're lapping a launch in Pall Mall in the year ago and how much of it is just the categories premium versus value and maybe some share shifts going on there? I think it's some of both.
I think we're very proud in terms of what we've achieved as a company on Camel.
Of course of all the capsule style on Camel continues to do extremely well in the marketplace.
But even Pall Mall it grew 3/10 in the quarter and actually 4/10 year-to-date and that's year-over-year.
So I think really both brands are doing extremely well.
I would still characterize the marketplace as being slight competitive.
There's a fair amount of pricing activity but I also think it's a fair conclusion to say that in this environment both of the growth brands Camel and Pall Mall at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco doing quite well in this environment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess just your commentary on the fourth quarter in terms of volumes and the outlook is there any concern around the consumer given like the government shutdown and there's some articles about food stamps getting cut.
Could that have an impact on the fourth quarter? I'd tell you at this stage I don't think we're predicting any significant impact to the category.
I think the government shutdown was relatively short-lived and obviously a lot of the employees are being made whole.
So really not expecting a significant impact on the category.
And our next question comes from David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan first RJRT's operating income if you normalize MSA expenses were down a little bit in the quarter.
They're down a little bit through the 9 months.
I know there's some investment spending that wouldn't otherwise be going on there but what's your confidence that that the division when you look out over time can grow its operating income? Well actually David I'm extremely confident on that side.
If you take a look actually at the key growth brands that we have at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco see if you take a look at Camel and Paul Mall they now account for about 70% of the total portfolio at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco and both those brands performing extremely well.
Now we are investing back some of those resources as you've said and we believe that's a very prudent investment and clearly we track the return on investment that we receive from those investments.
So actually I'm quite confident going forward that these are deliberate and well-calculated investments that we will see a return on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Secondly on Vuse what are you finding in Colorado the impact is if any from the fact that you're not the first to market that there are established products with distribution and some degree of consumer familiarity.
In other words are you finding that going more expensive than what otherwise be the case or is it any slower than otherwise would have been the case? Or is there essentially no impact from -- against the performance metrics or the cost because you're not the first to market? I think it's fair to say David that our marketing efforts and by that I really mean sort of introducing the brand through some of the media efforts and support.
We did not start that out of the gate so that didn't start right off in July and we actually achieved and significantly exceeded our expectations before the marketing effort even started.
And that leads me to the conclusion that actually having competitors out there educating on the category some consumer familiarity because at least they've tried some of these competitive products at one stage or another over time has actually helped us.
Because then we come in over the top with a significantly superior product both from a quality point of view from a consumer experience point of view.
And a product that offers a consumer benefit that's closer to the existing smoking or expectation the existing smokers have.
I think that actually makes our jobs easier in aggregate.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up on that Dan how are you going to calibrate the speed with which you're going to expand leaving aside capacity constraints for a moment? Because it looks to me like you're in one state and maybe you're incurring losses of $15 million a quarter.
Obviously if you extrapolate that spending rate in nationally or regionally it looks like you're going to be incurring very large losses.
Well I don't think you can extrapolate those numbers David because of course as you well know doing a test market means that you don't have any of the scale or the economies of scale behind any of our efforts.
So I don't think you can do a straight extrapolation financially.
Yes I think we are going as fast as we can as we speak and certainly I'll have much more to say on this subject in November when we can actually begin to talk about some of the detailed performance in Colorado and what some of the next steps are for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Dan if I could a question about litigation.
After the 11th Circuit decision I think it was in Walker and then the U.S.
Supreme Court denying review in your other Engle progeny appeal.
Do you think as a practical matter you're looking at 10 years plus of just trench warfare of individual cases being litigated in the state of Florida? And I assume that that's what you're prepared for? We certainly are prepared for that.
I think in terms of the Douglas case I think it's also fair to say that we were disappointed in the ruling.
But I'd just remind you and the other listeners that it was not a ruling on the actual merits of the case and we're going to continue the process and we're going to continue to fight for our constitutional rights and we will continue to defend every individual case as we move forward.
And our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I was hoping you could talk about a broader shift of the so-called premium brands doing better in the quarter in light of Camel's strength relative to Pall Mall.
Is this a function of greater promotions behind Camel leading to possible narrowing price gap between the 2 or are there other dynamics at play? If you could just touch on that I'd appreciate it.
Yes I think it's a little bit premature Bonnie to come to the conclusion to say that the category is premium-izing again or that in general premium brands are growing.
I know Camel stands out a little bit as having significant growth and it is a premium brand.
But I believe it's largely due to some of the differentiated offers that we have on Camel particularly on thinking of the capsule -- the 4 capsule SKUs that we have out there and they're doing particularly well in the marketplace.
I think we still see a moderated trend but the trend still exists to people moving from premium to value.
It's just that Camel is countertrend on that one.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I had a question on your Santa Fe momentum which certainly seems to have picked up and I'm curious where some of the gains that you're seeing are coming from and really what's driving this volume? And then how much run rate do you think is left for this brand? Okay.
Well I think we as a company are extremely proud of what the folks at Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company have been able to achieve.
If we start looking at some of the share numbers that they've actually posted it's 1.5 share points now of market.
I think if we take a look first of all at the product portfolio on Natural American Spirit I would say that everything's growing but maybe outsized growth they're seeing from the actual organic styles on the brand.
The other significant aspect that is leading to this acceleration in growth actually are some of those investments that we have made those equity building investments.
I think they're doing more work in terms of actually contacting consumers directly be that face-to-face or through direct mail and so forth in terms of helping get the proposition out there and building proposition awareness amongst the adult tobacco consumers and I think -- so it's really partly the investment and certain styles that are contributing to the outsized growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of Vuse congrats on your success in Colorado.
I know you've gotten a lot of questions already and you're going to talk about this more in November for us.
But I was curious if you could give us an idea of what you think e-cig displacement for the entire group has been so far this year as you possibly monitoring this category? Bonnie I'm not sure I understand what e-cigarette displacement is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well just in terms of how much you think this new category is displacing from traditional volume so far this year -- year-to-date because I know you're just in one state but as you kind of track the entire category? Yes I do think it's -- there obviously is an impact that's created by that.
I think it's a little bit early for me to answer that question Bonnie but I do think we'll have some more detailed numbers and statistics and can give you some hypotheses on that side at our Investor Day next month.
And our next question comes from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify some of the earlier comments you made.
So do I understand it right that you don't expect any negative impact on the industry to take pricing in the fourth quarter despite the state of the consumer despite the as you put it very competitive pricing on one of your competitor's new products? Look Thilo I think I would be reading maybe a bit too much into my comments.
I believe the pricing environment is quite rational out there.
Of course I'm -- can't speak for our competitors in terms of what they may or may not do from a pricing point of view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dan you've explained the strong performance of Camel partially with the capsule product that you have.
What other plans to expand that capsule technology into other brands that you now have? Well I can't really speculate at this stage Thilo in terms of our forward-looking plans.
All I can say is that the capsule styles on Camel and now the capsule category are doing quite well and we're very happy with Camel's performance particularly on those styles.
Research Division</strong> I understand your reservations there but maybe let me ask it differently.
Is there any reason why the capsule technology wouldn't work in a brand like Pall Mall for example? It could work on Pall Mall going forward but again I really don't want to speculate in terms of what our future marketing intent may or may not be.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then last question I had margins for the American Snuff Company were down and I apologize if I missed that in your prepared remarks but can you provide a little bit more background on that? At the American Snuff Company? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes well our adjusted operating margin at ASC was 57% for the third quarter.
Sequentially that's up 0.5% and year-over-year that's down 0.4%.
On a year-to-date basis we're actually up a full percentage point at 56.4%.
So I guess what you're reacting to is the discrete quarter year-over-year but we are at such a robust margin at that company now and of course we have some of the brand expenditure actually coming through on Grizzly as well where we choose to spend some back.
So I'm actually very proud of what we've been able to achieve and I will just remind everybody that we traditionally and I think the market's interpreted Grizzly as being a value offering in that category and that's certainly where it started but I don't think we can call 57% margins really value-level margins.
They really are premium level margins and quite proud of what that company has been able to achieve.
Research Division</strong> And I don't disagree with you on the margin level being extraordinary but does that mean that the outlook for further margin expansion is maybe a lot more muted than it has been the last 3 years? I don't have that interpretation and I don't have that belief.
It's largely because of some of the brand support expenditure coming back into the brand and on a year-to-date basis still seeing a strong margin growth.
And our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I hate to belabor the topic but just a quick point of clarification.
On Vuse when you commented on the spend in the quarter and whether or not we should extrapolate that can you comment at all on your long-term expectation for profitability? I believe in the past you have said that you see Vuse being able to attain a cigarette-type margin once kind of the mix flushes out and you get the right type of trial and repeat.
Is that still the case? It is.
One I think we're certainly confident that we can achieve that in the medium term.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
In terms of the impact of the government shut down on potential forthcoming regulation can you give us any color on when you expect timing of deeming regulation? Yes if we take a look at the -- it's basically the FDA had indicated in October time frame and it has been suggested that the proposed regulation has reached the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the OMB and of course RAI's services company is going to actively participate in that regulatory process.
But we're not sure and don't have any indication as to whether the government shutdown might actually delay some of that timing or not.
So I guess really time will tell.
And the other one maybe on deeming regulations that I could share with everybody is that we have engaged with the FDA on Vuse through a listening session and also happy to report that that was heavily attended by members of the FDA.
And our next question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
So 2 questions from my end.
Dan if you could just provide some perspective on the timeline as it relates to menthol because I know a lot of folks were expecting some news in the interim but it seems like it was going to be a very long drawn-out process.
So maybe you can just give some perspective on how you guys think about the timeline in totality? And then the second questions is really around e-cigarettes and Vuse.
Sorry I'm at the airport.
It's a little loud.
Maybe can you just talk about trial and remind us Dan is that there's a lot of couponing going in Colorado.
So just want to get a sense of kind of what the unaided consumer response has been to the test market.
Okay.
Let me start a little bit on the menthol side.
So first of all there's the ANPR which is the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and the preliminary scientific report and those were issued on July 23 and that means that comments on those documents are actually due November 23.
And just to remind everybody the preliminary scientific report found increased initiation and increased dependence and decreased cessation.
And the FDA we believe they relied on studies that were basically just snapshots in time.
So a comprehensive assessment of national government surveys across time we believe that they do not support the findings and should be heavily considered before issuing science-based regulation.
So we're going to engage with the FDA.
We are going to provide guidelines or provide comments by the November 23 deadline.
The FDA will then react to a lot of those comments and then they'll issue their actual sort of decision or intent which states there will be another process of actually a public comment process.
So I think you're right in your assertion that we shouldn't expect a definitive decision out of the gate.
Yes? In terms of Vuse Nick I'm going to just comment a little bit on the third quarter as we sit here today.
There was not any significant promotional support or coupons from us on Vuse during the third quarter.
What we did do in the marketplace is where consumers were engaged by personnel from the company so either employees or third party agents of the company.
At that stage they were educated on the category what makes our product different.
In that stage they would be offered a coupon to that individual to allow them to make a discounted purchase on one of these solo styles and remind everybody the solo style is actually a rechargeable battery unit with one cartridge.
That is really the principal marketing activity that we had during the third quarter.
Subsequent to that we have done some direct mail efforts in terms of sending some coupons and introducing the brand to other consumers that we hadn't already contacted.
So really I think the comments that you're talking about about coupons hitting the market is subsequent to the third quarter.
And our next question comes from Greg Hessler from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So can you guys provide -- I know there were a lot of moving pieces after the close of the quarter.
Would you guys be willing to -- or able to provide just like a total debt number on an adjusted basis pro forma for the debt pay-down of the term loan as well as the tender? Sure.
I think our long-term debt right now stands at about $5 billion and the term loan is completely paid off and we paid off the 2015 and '16 last Thursday and all that stuff was sitting in short-term liabilities.
So it's just the long-term piece that's left.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So when you announced the tender you moved those bonds to short-term liabilities? We did.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question was just more of a sort of bigger picture question.
Your -- I had your leverage at about 1.6x.
I know you have the target of about 1.5 to 2.5.
So sort of a big picture.
You don't have a lot of debt maturities coming up.
How do you think about capital allocation going forward? Are there interesting M&amp;A situations that are out there for you? How should we be thinking about capital allocation? Well the way we think about it is exactly as you've said.
I mean we try to be between 1.5x and 2.5x to basically maintain our investment grade rating.
All of our debt is currently fixed and it's at about 4.5% and it's down about 1/10 from where we were before we did the refinancing and on average we have about a 15-year maturity.
So we feel very comfortable with where we are and yes it does provide us some opportunities to do things that -- should the need arise.
So we're very comfortable with the capital structure we did.
There were a lot of moving parts but it does keep our powder dry.
And our final question for today comes from Filippe Goossens from Mitsubishi Securities.
I actually have a couple of them if I may.
The first one relates to the e-cigarette segment.
If we share your view and we do with regard to the potential for the category given there's no regulation at this moment how do you protect yourself? Or how do you protect the category from some of moms and pops importing inferior product from outside of the country and there's a quality issue that all of a sudden gives kind of a negative aspect to what looks like a very promising category at this moment? Yes I think it's a great question and I think if we take a look from an FDA point of view we are expecting over time the FDA to actually issue its deeming regulation and that over time that will actually lead to sort of good manufacturing practices and product standards and what a good stewardship practice is.
So there's that side of things but I also think inherent in this category and what we're already seeing in Colorado is consumers actually demanding quality themselves.
And that product failure some of the product issues that they discover on certain brands is really not an option for them and so them voting with their feet towards the higher-quality newer generation of products of which we're proud to have one.
So I really think it's a combination of different factors and I would say that the other sort of thing that we've seen is retailers actually clearly getting behind some of the more reputable products in the marketplace not accepting and choosing not to distribute products from certain manufacturers that they might deem to be less reputable and people that don't stand behind their product.
So I think really if we think of it from a consumer point of view from a retailer point of view and from a manufacturing point of view I think the category is headed in the right direction.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just maybe a follow-up on the other question with regard to capital allocation.
Your competitor in the e-cigarette space made a small acquisition in the U.K.
last month if I recall correctly.
Dan is that something that might create down the road for you guys also an opportunity to kind of get back into the international business since you don't have any presence there right now? Yes I think it's a little bit too early and too soon to speculate on that side.
So I'm going to decline to speculate really at this stage.
I think we're clearly focused on the U.S.
market as we sit here today.
We're only in 1 state out of 50 as we speak.
So we still have plenty of growth opportunity in front of us today.
Okay.
Then my final question Dan if I may has more to do with the European tobacco directive that was passed by the parliament last month.
They banned menthol I think if I recall correctly after an 8-year period.
My question is kind of twofold related to that.
Number one to what extent do you think the FDA will look at the European directive and maybe copy certain parts of it? And secondly why do you think there was that kind of 8-year period during which menthol could still be sold? I understand that menthol obviously is quite different in Europe than here but sort of was kind of intrigued by that 8-year period for this phase out.
A couple of comments.
I think first of all I think it would be fairly obvious that people working at the FDA are aware of what's going on in Europe.
But I think you also correctly identify that the issue is very different in Europe than it might be here in the U.S..
I believe the menthol category in Western Europe or in the EU is 3% or right around that number and of course for us it's about 10x that size proportionate to the market.
And so I think the sort of factors weighing in on a regulatory decision are quite different in Europe than they are here but of course the regulators here will be aware.
Now as to what might be sort of implied in terms of the regulatory approach in Europe at this stage I really don't want to speculate as to why the regulators might choose to go one way or the other.
That is not the principal market that we as a company are focused on.
I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I'd like to hand the conference back over for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
If you have any additional questions please feel free to contact us at Investor Relations.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later well conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call maybe recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today well review Reynolds Americans results for the first quarter as well as our outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAIs President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information were about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now Ill turn the call over to Dan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As youre aware Ive announced my intent to retire effective May 1.
I have truly enjoyed the opportunity to get to know many of our investors as well as the analysts who cover RAI.
Id like to extend my personal thanks to each of you for your interest in our business and your confidence in our ability to continue to return excellent value to our shareholders.
That commitment will not change with my retirement.
Most of you know Susan and know that during her previous service as CEO RAI significantly outpaced the S&amp;P 500 in total shareholder return.
She is as committed as I am to this company and its future success.
Susan served as the architect of RAIs total tobacco strategy a decade ago.
And I feel very confident in turning the reins over to her as we continue on our leadership journey to transform the tobacco industry.
Now lets take a look at the latest progress weve made on that journey.
I am pleased to report that RAI and its operating companies have made an excellent start to the year keeping us on track to meet earnings projections for 2014.
As our report today shows RAIs overall results reflect meaningful progress on two main fronts in the first quarter; continued solid performance of our operating companies and their key brands; as well as very positive development on the VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette.
As we anticipated RAIs first quarter earnings end margins were impacted by RJR Vapors investment in preparation for the expansion of VUSE.
During the quarter RAIs reportable business segments found new opportunities for growth in a competitive environment.
In fact the continued strong momentum of the key brands was the real highlight of the quarter.
As I noted previously the market shares on our company key brands have been revised in line with the change in our projection universe used by their vendor.
Although this has resulted in higher absolute market share levels on some key brands the share trend remains unchanged.
Before I discuss our companys achievements in more detail Id like to update you on VUSE which is a tangible example of our companys leadership and innovation their ability to redefine tobacco enjoyment in the evolving marketplace.
I couldnt be more pleased with VUSEs performance in its first two expansion markets; Colorado and Utah.
Interestingly when VUSE moved into Utah in February the market there reacted in much the same way as it did in Colorado last year.
First; VUSE quickly commanded a leading share of market in both states.
Second; the size of the entire e-cigarette category grew in Utah when VUSE was introduced just as it did when VUSE was launched in Colorado.
This supports our belief that there is pent-up demand among smokers for superior quality product.
And third; sales of replacement cartridges are very strong in Utah indicating significant repeat purchases by consumers.
That remains true in Colorado as well.
Clearly the performance of VUSE thus far is exceeding even our own high expectations.
VUSE is on track for significant geographic expansion this summer with plans to enter in next two expansion markets; Wisconsin and Indiana in early June.
That will be followed by the first wave of the brands national rollout to approximately 15 000 regional stores across the country in late June.
As Ive said before the overall rate of expansion will depend on VUSEs sales performance and the growth of the e-cigarette category.
As you would expect spending on VUSE will continue to build in the second quarter in preparation for the geographic rollout and for the increased production capacity required.
This increased investment is reflected in our earnings guidance for the full year which we have reaffirmed today in the range of 3.5% to just over 8% in adjusted EPS growth.
I would also note that our guidance includes continued investment in the equity building initiatives of our companys key cigarette and moist-snuff brands.
Now lets turn to the quarters performance at R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe.
At R.J.
Reynolds adjusted operating income and margin were down slightly from the prior year quarter as lower cigarette volumes and expenses for the National Trade Marketing Meeting that occurs every three years outweighed higher pricing.
The companys cigarette volume declined moderated slightly in the quarter.
A strong performance of our both growth brands; Camel and Pall Mall help to offset the declines on the companys other brands.
Even so the lack of a strong economic recovery continues to be a factor behind the volume declines.
There is no doubt that some smokers are migrating to smoke-free product including e-cigarettes.
For the industry cigarette shipments were down 2.7% in the first quarter while R.J.
Reynolds reported a volume decline of 3.8%.
And I would note that our operating companies had one additional shipping day in the quarter.
After adjusting for wholesale inventory changes the company estimates that its volume was down just over 5% in the quarter.
This compares with an adjusted industry decline of about 4.4%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.7 billion units at the end of the first quarter down about 300 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 1.7 billion were down about 200 million.
Turning to cigarette market share.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share was up one-tenths of a percentage points in the first quarter at 26.7%.
R.J.
Reynolds two growth brands Camel and Pall Mall turned in another excellent performance.
And this performance is in line with the companys portfolio strategy of growth brand gains offsetting declines on the companys other brands.
The combined market share of Camel and Pall Mall rose seven-tenths of a percentage point to 19.4% accounting for more than 70% of R.J.
Reynolds total market share.
Camels first quarter share increased by four-tenths of a percentage point to 10% driven by growth in the brands premium menthol styles.
In fact Camel was in the growth leader in premium menthol volume for the past three years.
During the quarter Camels menthol style added three-tenths of a percentage point and now comprised a market share of 4.2%.
Performance of Camel SNUS was also strong during the first quarter and as innovative smoke-free offering is maintaining its share of the growing SNUS category at above 80%.
Pall Mall continues to gain momentum as the categorys leading value brand.
Pall Mall which offers a longer lasting cigarette at an affordable price increased market share by three-tenths of a percentage points in the first quarter to 9.5%.
Pall Mall is a great brand success story and plays an important role in R.J.
Reynolds portfolio strategy.
Now turning to American Snuff which continues to go from strength to strength despite significantly higher competitive activity in the moist-snuff category.
American Snuff again delivered strong financial results in the quarter with operating income growing more than 9% while operating margin remains strong.
The companys moist-snuff volume rose more than 10% during the quarter and together with higher pricing benefiting the companys operating income.
Its moist-snuff market share gained eight-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 34.6%.
Equity building enhancements on the Grizzly brand continue to drive momentum and Grizzly generated strong growth in both volume and share during the quarter.
Grizzly increased market share to another record of 31.5% an increase of more than 4 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
And that was on volume growth of more than 12%.
Im pleased to report that Grizzlys Wide Cut Wintergreen style which was expanded nationally during the quarter is proving to be a very successful addition to the Grizzly portfolio.
The brand is also getting excellent results in this pouch style.
Pouches are the fastest growing style in the moist-snuff category.
And Grizzly captured almost 70% of that growth in the first quarter.
Now turning to Santa Fe which also got off to a strong start this year.
Santa Fes operating income was up almost 25% from the prior year quarter.
A strong growth in operating margin as well.
The companys Natural American Spirit brand gained two-tenths of a share point in the first quarter bringing its market share to 1.5%.
And the brands volume was up by 10.7%.
Natural American Spirit now one of the nations top 10 cigarette brands is also seeing increased interest in its organic tobacco styles.
So based on the quarters performance I am confident that RAI and its operating companies are on course for sustainable growth this year.
And that substantial progress will continue to be made on the VUSE expansion.
Now Ill turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you and good morning everyone.
As Dan just mentioned the investment in the VUSE expansion was a factor in RAIs first quarter results.
The companys adjusted EPS of $0.72 was in line with the prior year quarter with lower cigarette volumes certain sales and marketing expenses and the VUSE spending offsetting the benefits of higher pricing in our share repurchase program.
Adjusted results exclude a $0.04 gain for a tax resolution associated with discontinued operations $0.08 for charges related to the Engle progeny lawsuits and tobacco-related and other litigation and $0.01 were implementation costs.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.67 down 27.2% from the prior year period.
I would remind you that in the first quarter of last year RAI recorded a gain of $0.21 for the one-time benefit from the NPM partial settlement.
RAIs first quarter adjusted operating margin was also impacted by the VUSE spending and the other items I mentioned and was down 2.2 percentage points at 34.4%.
Before I cover our financial performance in detail I would remind everyone of the 6.3% dividend increase that we announced in February which brought our dividend to an annualized $2.68.
This again reflects our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
Now Ill turn to our operating companies performance where Ill focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds first quarter adjusted operating income was negatively impacted by the sales and marketing expenses noted earlier and the decline in cigarette volumes.
As a result adjusted operating income declined by 1.4% from the prior year quarter to $555 million.
R.J.
Reynolds adjusted operating margin of 35.5% was also down slightly on the items Ive just referenced.
American Snuff came in strong benefiting from higher moist-snuff volume and pricing in the first quarter and this increased operating income by 9.2% from the prior year quarter to $102 million.
The companys operating margin of just over 55% saw a modest decline as the company continued to invest in the equity building initiatives on the Grizzly brand.
American Snuff also had an increase in promotional spending in the quarter in response to higher competitive promotions.
Turning to Santa Fes performance.
The company increased operating income by nearly 25% to $65 million which was driven by higher volume and pricing.
And Santa Fes first quarter operating margin increased 3.1 percentage points to 48.3%.
Now Id like to cover some additional financial items at RAI.
We ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.8 billion.
Since then R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company has made its MSA payment of about $1.5 billion which includes $433 million that was paid into the NPM disputed funds account.
RAI borrowed $750 million on its revolving credit facility last week to cover short-term needs.
As you may recall we increased the size of the credit facility last year to improve the overall efficiency of our capital structure.
Our share repurchase programs continued in the first quarter with the purchase of 2.9 million shares for $145 million.
This brought total repurchases to-date to 50.6 million shares for $2.2 billion.
In addition RAIs pension plans continue to be well funded.
With respect to the arbitration panels ruling this past September on the remaining 2003 NPM adjustment disputed payments I would remind you that R.J.
Reynolds believes it is entitled to approximately $266 million plus interest and earnings.
All six states that were found not to have diligently enforced their obligations under the MSA have initiated legal challenges to the arbitration ruling.
While the company believes that will prevail in these proceeding and will ultimately receive these funds no amount had been recognized in the first quarter given this uncertainty.
Consequently these amounts will be recorded as appropriate when this uncertainty is ultimately resolved.
Finally RAI and its operating companies are making good headway in the evolving environment in which we compete while we continue to look for ways to enhance shareholder value.
I am pleased to reaffirm our full year adjusted EPS guidance in the range of $3.30 to $3.45.
This guidance takes into account significant investment in VUSE as well as additional investments in the equity building efforts on the key brands which positions us well for sustainable growth.
Thank you.
Now well turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Simon would you remind our callers how to get into the queue?  Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Dan let me ask you first the question I am getting most from investors which is can you just explain sort of the backdrop your personal decision to resign and to leave the company seemingly so quickly? Well David I think it might seem quick to some but for me it actually has been 25 years in the category.
And I have now been here at Reynolds for going on for 7.5 years.
And obviously Ive been fortunate in life in what Ive achieved.
And so as I was kind of contemplating the future I came to the conclusion that this was the right decision for myself and my family.
Okay.
And then a couple of business questions if I could.
One is in terms of the spending level on VUSE.
I mean in the last six months alone the P&amp;L expense has been about $60 million.
So what opportunity is that predicated on? In other words the intent and the expectation is  with the level of spending youve made the level of spending youre going to have through the remainder of the year youd be disappointed if you dont generate a business that can have what level of ultimate profitability? Well I think David we look at the opportunity out there.
And really this category is only really started its upward trajectory as we sit here today.
I think there are still technology shortcomings generally in the category which we believe our product actually has a significant step forward and is really is a step-change in terms of technology that will help expand the category going forward.
So I think its a little bit premature to make long-term predictions about where that category ends up but we are confident in our technology and that is really is that next generation of technology to address consumers needs in this emerging category.
And also remind you that I have indicated and were confident that we can get cigarette like margins in this category over the long run.
So really when we look at our investment profile its that kind of backdrop in mind.
Are you seeing the e-cigarette category in Utah and Colorado have about a 3% cigarette unit volume share equivalency? That is correct.
Okay.
And then lastly what kind of  how are you seeing in that segment the competition evolve as you enter the markets and get the product in retail and build the sales space? Im not sure I got the question David.
How are you seeing the competition youre facing evolve? In other words prior to your presence in the market post your presence in the market are the competitive offerings fairly similar or are you seeing a competitive response when you enter in e-cigarettes in a particular state? Yes I think weve seen some pricing activity but largely its the same as what weve seen in terms of that programs nationally.
But maybe the other side of that coin and maybe to help brand out the thinking is I have no doubt and you start looking at lot of the public pronouncements of our competitors everybody is now working on getting their next generation products out there.
So really I think this identification of this fundamental consumer may not being met by current technology is not just an observation by ourselves.
I believe its  our competitors have that one as well.
And there really is a big race out there at the moment to bring the most appropriate technology and the best technology possible to this emerging category.
Okay great.
Best of luck Dan.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
First Dan I do want to say its been great working with you and I do wish you all the best in your retirement.
And I guess my first question is on something you just mentioned which certainly we had been noticing that the product evolution needs to continue.
So I am curious so where youre at with further improvements for VUSE? I know its just getting started to be placed into the marketplace but where are you at in your R&amp;D efforts behind improved technology? Yes I think Bonnie at this stage its hard for me to go into details but let me assure you that we have some very smart and dedicated people and the financial resources.
And obviously working on getting the current product out but at the same time we have teams in place working diligently to continue to enhance the products going forward.
And we have an exciting pipeline of different innovation in this e-cigarette space that have yet to be rolled out.
And well look to continue to improve the product going forward.
Okay.
And then you mentioned this a little bit already but given the heavy investment behind the development and then the rollout of VUSE it sounds like the margins youre able to offer retailers while attractive are below your competitors.
So I guess I am trying to get a sense if you foresee this being an issue in getting your brand into certain retail locations in terms of positioning? Yes I really dont.
I think you need to look at it.
And if you put yourself in your retailer shoes just for a moment its a discussion of is there profit and margin right and a discussion about the total amounts of profitability available to the retailer.
And because the turnover of VUSE and the rotation of product on the shelf is just that much higher the absolute gross profit generated to the retailer is significantly higher than anything available in the category.
And so I think when you have that kind of a discussion with retailers its a very positive one.
And they see where were going with this product.
And happy to report that they are happy to come on board and carry the product and support it.
Okay.
And then in terms of your first wave you mentioned its going to be in around 15 000 stores.
So could you talk about any potential capacity constrains you may have and if youre having difficulties maybe in meeting or fully meeting demand.
And how many stores do you anticipate VUSE will be in by the end of this year? All right.
Let me take this in turn.
We are capacity constrained as we sit here today but we recently made two announcements.
So we made an announcement that were going into further two states those being Wisconsin and Indiana.
And well be doing that really in the first half of June.
And then at the end of June well go to an additional 15 000 stores nationally.
So well be effectively available almost everywhere or in every state of the country.
And then we are confident that we can follow that up from some weeks after that with the next big announcement of further expansion nationally.
But of course were hedging our bets a little bit because what we dont know is exactly how large that share is going to be right out of that gate in that next phase of expansion.
And we dont know for certainty how big the category is going to grow between then and now.
So we do have a little bit of flexibility built into the plan going forward based on some of those capacity constraints.
And in terms of some of these financial commitment actually getting this product rolling it out I think its fair to highlight that whats actually embedded in our profit and loss statement in the other category really the significant cost is about the factory and machine startup costs which are embedded in that and also the acquisition of the purchase of a lot of merchandizing materials that were going to need to merchandize this effectively in those expansion stores.
And maybe for ourselves the way we handle our merchandizing acquisition is we actually expense those when they come in.
So we dont actually put them on the balance sheet and expense them as go out.
We expense them right from the get go.
So you get a little bit of offset in terms of timing.
Some of those expenses will get pulled forward because of that accounting principle.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And I guess just my final question would be on Pall Mall and Camel.
Volumes certainly came in much better than expectations.
So could you just drill down a little bit more on some of the drivers behind the strong performance and then how sustainable do you think this momentum is? And Id certainly be curious to hear what you see as Pall Malls ultimate share potential? Yes I think you bring up some good points.
I think were very proud of the company in terms of what the key brands particularly Camel and Pall Mall the ones you mentioned what theyve achieved but to NAS as well.
Right.
Take a look first at Camel at RJRT.
Its up four-tenths of a percentage point year-over-year so very strong performance.
But I would put that market share performance.
Also in the context actually of our net price realization which came in at slightly above 4% in the first quarter.
And so really its driven by true equity spend.
Its really an equity-driven growth.
And if you remember this time last year we talked a lot about our increased equity investment behind the brand what we were doing from a non-pricing point of view is actually drive that long-term equity.
And I really think this is a reflection of some of those investments we have made and continue to make in terms of the brand.
For Pall Mall it obviously is a slightly simpler consumer proposition in terms of the longer lasting cigarette.
Its actually up three-tenths so doing quite nicely in the marketplace as well.
And it is less of a equity-driven in the classic sense from a communication point of view proposition but its much more about its product point of difference continuing to come true and attract consumer attention.
Now if we take a look at those two growth brands obviously together being up seven-tenths.
It was also happened in the portfolio of RJRT is a decrease or an improvement in the declining trend on the other brands.
So in aggregate at RJRT the company is actually up one-tenths of percentage point.
Now if we take that in conjunction with the Natural American Spirit being up two-tenths.
It means the total cigarette amongst the RAI group of companies is actually up three-tenths.
In fact we can then go a little bit further and say that the total ASC share the American Snuff Company share up eight-tenths with Grizzly up 1.1%.
And if we did that in cigarette equivalent that would actually be another tenth of a share point.
So really total company from a share performance point of view up four-tenths in the first quarter.
And I think that speaks to the fundamental sound strategies in place good diligence in terms of making some smart investments in the business.
And of course that goes without saying that we still have VUSE as the good upside long-term on the back side of that strategy.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So if I read it right youre also saying that the RJR shipment share declined in the quarter.
So is there an inventory de-load at retail or is at least part of that also that the new measuring system overweights for healthier brands? I think a couple of things going on.
Dont forget that shipment volume even when adjusted really only talks at wholesale.
Of course the off-take measures whats actually flowing out of retail.
So you do have that kind of a slight difference in the numbers.
And I also would look at the retail off-take system and methodology thats there.
Thats largely focused on gas convenience and to a slightly lesser degree the drug channel.
So it doesnt have a significant representation in some of the other but smaller and declining channels out there.
So I think its a combination of those things that would lead to these numbers.
Okay thats helpful.
And then could you just give us some sense on the RJR margins? You mentioned the sales and marketing expenses.
Is some of that pacing? Can you give us a feel for what was going on in the quarter relative to the rest of the year and just what drove the softness in the margins there? Yes I think at RJRT probably the main thing is in the first quarter we tend to have a national sales conference that we do that about three years.
It fell in the first quarter this year.
And that really hit some of those expenses but of course those expenses are not recurring in the sense that they happen every quarter or every year.
And so that hit the margins there slightly in the first quarter.
Okay thats helpful.
But then on the Santa Fe side you had a nice jump and certainly the pricing there helps and volume growth but thats an acceleration from the pace of margin gains you had last year.
Is there anything unusual in the quarter or what would help drive some of that? No.
I would say on Santa Fe youre right.
It had very healthy margins in the first quarter at 48.3% so really a fantastic quarter.
It also is a brand that we stepped up equity investment in.
And again we refer you back to this time last year when we talked about what were going to do.
Of course that Santa Fe with its Natural American Spirit brand that is the true super premium proposition.
That brand has never discounted never on sale and never promoted.
And so its doing very well really as a equity-based proposition to consumers with its all natural.
And the big growing styles within it are the organic styles.
So its doing extremely well.
Now to be fair the first quarter of last year was also a relatively easy compare for the brand from a year-over-year basis.
Thats helpful.
Thanks.
And then back on VUSE following up on Bonnies question.
Did you have any  have you offered the product to any retailers who havent accepted it? I know youve got a case for faster turns but with the lower margins and a lot of products and brands already out there have you had anybody who has just not been interested? No.
Im going to say no to that question but I am sure somebody somewhere sometime has said no but not to any significant degree that I am aware of.
And in fact very happy.
Most of the conversations that I personally and some of the team has been having with retailers is they are really trying to get their hands on it as quick as possible.
And its more about when is it coming and how quickly and can they please be in sort of earlier in the queue.
I would say that thats certainly been the predominant theme in my interaction with retailers.
And then just on the margins there.
Your commentary in the release its clear that the spending is expected to rise in 2Q on that business.
What does the rest of the year look like? It would  obviously if youre preplanning  if the merchandizing units in some of the production side of costs are front-loaded.
Is there some relief or is that  if you have continued expansion and capacity and continued expansion and distribution is that likely to continue? Just some idea maybe of how to put in context the second half relative to the first half? Yes without getting into too much detail maybe the best way I can answer that is that were very confident in our guidance for the entire year.
Having said that obviously the profile throughout the year so quarter-to-quarter or the quarterly splits are going to be slightly different than what weve done historically.
And youre right that in terms of some of these investments particularly on VUSE that depresses the number slightly in the first and second quarter but were confident and can reiterate our guidance for the full year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Hi Dan I wish you all the best in your retirement there.
Thank you.
I appreciate.
Sure.
So just two questions I had for you.
The first was last year was a year where you spend a lot back behind your brand equities due to the benefits you had coming through from the MSA.
Obviously those benefits are still there.
I just want to get a sense if you look at this year versus last year is the spending shifting around maybe by brand or is the level of spending picking up at all year-over-year? Yes I think its hard for us to make specific comments about specific dollar amounts behind brands.
But I think its fair to say that we are continuing that investment profile behind these key equities we have as a company.
And of course within that weve highlighted in the past our focus on Camel equity building on Natural American Spirit equity building and on the Grizzly brand as well at the American Snuff Company.
So those are the three key existing brands in the marketplace that were investing to continue to enhance the equity.
And if we look at the very solid growth profile both from a consumer point of view the demographics coming through but as well as some of the top line numbers that weve been discussing on the call today I think that investment is really paying off.
As we kind of go forward of course there is tweaking of those plans but the overall investment and investment thesis that we have remains intact and in place.
Okay.
And the industry obviously has some further benefits coming later in the year from the growers payments going away.
That certainly is a cost savings for the industry.
And I was just curious does that allow you to be little bit more flexible little bit more of an increasing spending this year as you look ahead of the benefit coming through in the fourth quarter and really even for next year? Yes I think its a little bit too early to tell whats going to happen to those funds.
Do they flow through the P&amp;L in lieu of pricing or in addition to pricing? And thats the question that remains to be answered.
And if it does lead to flexibility at that stage well make the appropriate decisions about whether to  what the investment profile will be or whether to look that fall through to the bottom line.
Okay.
Just one final one if I could ask on Grizzly.
Youve got a little more promotional there and certainly Scholes [ph] has been a little more aggressive as well.
So was that in front of that more aggressive spending by your competitor or have you seen any material changes causing you to get even more aggressive if you will and promotional spending behind Grizzly especially here in the second quarter? No.
I think its fair and I highlighted in my prepared comments that we have stepped up promotional spending somewhat behind the brand as the brand is responding to that as we see the strong market share increases.
On Grizzly it was the 1.1 share points in the quarter.
But I would characterize that promotional spend as what were doing is still being significantly less than our competitors.
And so really its not about keeping pace because the equity of Grizzly doesnt need its really an equity led growth.
The equity is growing quarter-by-quarter year-by-year.
So I would really call it as a partial react of spend.
I think its probably the best characterization I could put on those expenditures.
Okay very good.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Judy.
First just Dan on the industry volume decline on an adjusted basis of 4.4% for the cigarette market.
I guess its a little bit worse than sort of the 3.5% decline that youve called out as the average decline for the last few years and its ramping up relatively easy comp if I looked at the year ago numbers.
So is there any call outs there just in terms of the underlying consumption decline for the cigarette market? Yes I mean the numbers kind of are what they are.
I can just provide a little bit of color.
I think we still believe the long-term trend is coming back to this 3.5% as a longer term trend.
I do believe that the continued kind of weak economy continues to play on this as does some of the migration to some of these other categories.
Moist-snuff continues to grow.
You look at the vapor category e-cigarette category kind of continuing to grow and SNUS indeed is growing as well.
So I think its a combination of a number of different factors but yes youre right that this number in terms of what was posted in the first quarter is probably slightly ahead of my estimate.
Okay.
And along so maybe similar line when you go into with VUSE markets like Colorado and Utah you talked about the e-cigarette categories really seeing an accelerated growth there.
What are you seeing in those markets in terms of the impacts for the cigarette category particularly maybe markets like Colorado now that youve been there for sometime? Yes.
I think its fantastic question Judy.
Unfortunately I dont have all the data to actually share with you from a consumer point of view.
There is no doubt that the majority of consumers that a vast majority of consumers interacting with this category are actually smokers.
But in terms of the impact on consumption in terms of how much they reduce cigarette consumption as they migrate or interact with this new category we dont have good data on that at this juncture.
Okay.
And have you given us the market share numbers for VUSE both in those markets? I think when you launched in Colorado you had given some of the market share numbers.
Im wondering what that is right now.
Yes.
I think were  I dont have the number in front of me but its shade below 80%.
In both markets? Pardon me? In both.
In both markets very similar.
Okay got it.
And then I just wanted to go back to the VUSE spending and just wanted to clarify a couple of things but first if I look at the Q1 spending it looks like its mostly on the cost of goods side.
Youve talked about startup costs youve talked about the merchandizing cost spend.
And is all of that spending really related to more of the full national launch going forward or would that also build as the year progresses? And then the increased spending as we go forward in the out quarters are those more related to more marketing and the equity building type of investments that would likely to hit more of the SG&amp;A line? Yes.
I would say to most of your hypothesis yes.
Let me just delve around in this area a little bit.
So what weve got is weve obviously got the factory machine startup costs.
And thats fair to say that we are now installing significant machinery.
Its new generation of machinery but in preparation for future sales and for future rollouts.
The installed capacity where there is really no significant continue startup costs to support the existing markets because those machines are in place and working.
The merchandizing costs I think is largely related to some of the expansion.
And I think your hypothesis is that you are going to see more on the SG&amp;A side going forward relative to some of the product costs.
Thats a correct hypothesis.
Okay.
And just timing-wise the rollout plan seems a little bit maybe less aggressive than I would have thought just two markets in the first half of June.
So why not go more full on just in terms of more progressive full on sort of national launch here? I mean Judy its fair to say that our performance in both Colorado and Utah is running significantly ahead of our early expectations.
And therefore in terms of the distribution expansion were planning for success.
And we need to make sure that we can actually supply those retailers that were signing up at that juncture.
So were really hedging our bets and really expecting fantastic results out there.
And we have a flexible plan in place and hope to be making some announcements post the next phase but following on very quickly to take this up to very significant numbers.
Thank you.
And Dan best of luck to you and your retirement.
Thank you Judy.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Sorry my questions are actually been answered.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Thanks Owen.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks a lot.
And Dan I second Judys comments good luck on your retirement.
It was great working with you in the last couple of years.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We were at a conference in D.C.
where Commissioner Hamburg was guest speaking.
And she indicated that the deeming regs are imminent.
So Im suspecting theyre going to come up in the next week or so.
Just curious Dan if you had a view on potentially what some of these regs would look like? And then the second question is on VUSE.
Expecting as that the business or the brand has done well.
But is it because of the level of spending you put into market.
So Im trying to get at how long will it take for this business to actually reach the cigarette like profitability because you have obviously lot of spending going to the marketplace with corp engagement training and things like that.
So Im just wondering if you didnt have that level of spending would you necessarily have the kind of market shares you have in the key markets right now.
So if you can just provide any perspective around that? Thank you.
Sure.
Thanks Nik.
Let me take those questions in turn.
If we take a look at the deeming regulation we do not have any idea of whats particularly in those regulations.
But I think we are supportive of good constructive but also scientifically-based regulations in this category and we look forward to actively participating in the regulatory process.
Now we have engaged the FDA on our VUSE product and have through some of the listening sessions.
I think those were very positive and constructive sessions that we had with the FDA.
And in fact they were heavily attended by the FDA as well.
So I think were like many in the industry and on your side as well Nik were also waiting with holding our breath really to see whats going to happen in terms of these deeming regulations when they finally come out.
And I think on the VUSE side of things if we take a look in terms of the expenditure that weve actually made I think weve made a significant efforts to educate a lot of our retailers on this a lot of consumer engagement going on through retail but through our own folks in the marketplace as well.
We have done a little bit of brand building in Colorado in terms of just building up some awareness.
And in the market of Colorado weve also had one  Id just emphasize that a one direct mail delivery to tobacco consumers in that state.
I think the redemption on that was quite good.
It was about 15% redemption.
So if you took it in kind of the traditional tobacco kind of sense which youd say is that the volume generated in Colorado has a promoted level of about 5%.
And so if you take that one coupon drop you can say the redemption on it that only accounts for about 5% of the volume.
So 95% of those volume was at regular retail prices.
So we look at that model and say its very sustainable.
In fact it is significantly lower than what we had planned to spend in that state going into the launch and thats obviously because performance was so high.
We were also running behind in terms of capacity.
And so really I would say that its a very sustainable model going forward.
And were very confident that were making appropriate but judicious investments behind that rollouts going forward.
Thank you Dan.
Thank you Nik.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for the question.
I was hoping that you could provide just a little bit more color around the thought process behind drawing down on your revolver.
It sounds like it was on sort of in lieu of commercial paper access I dont believe you have a program in place but if you just talk to sort of why that strategy makes more sense and reach by accepting the commercial paper market or putting in a shorter term floating note or potentially another term loan? Sure.
This is Tom.
We drew on the revolver  we upsized the revolver last year to $1.35 billion with the clear intention of borrowing only at the time that we needed which is frankly during our low point in cash which is April when we make our MSA payment.
And so we drawdown on the credit facility to pay just little over 1% and then we will quickly be able to pay that back during the balance of the year.
So it provides us a lot of flexibility without making long-term commitment.
And to your earlier point no we do not have a commercial paper program at this point.
Do you have any intent to potentially add a commercial paper program? We discuss those types of things but no intent at this point.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
We do have a follow-up question from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
One quick follow-up just on buybacks.
Can you just remind us is it what about $200 million or $300 million you have left in the current authorization? And can you give any update on if you feel like youve got a deal you can strike with BAT to keep that going beyond into the second half with  I think you were trying to make sure if you continued any more that they would participated to change their ownership stake if you have any update on where that might stand? You are right.
We have about $300 million left and well complete that in the second quarter of this year.
And we are in discussions with the board and BAT right now about an additional share repurchase program.
And your current guidance reflects only the known authorization and not any potential benefit you might get from  if these negotiations work out? That is correct.
Okay.
Thanks and best of luck Dan too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Dan Delen for closing remarks.
Yes I want to say again how much Ive enjoyed working with all of you.
As Tom and I have made clear today weve had a great quarter and our operating companies are well positioned for the road ahead.
Im excited about business return to the company and Im confident that our upward trajectory will continue under her very experienced leadership.
Great things lie ahead for RAI its employees and its investors.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll review Reynolds American results for the second quarter as well as our earnings projections for the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
I'll start off by saying that it's been a very exciting and busy past few weeks for us at Reynolds American.
Two weeks ago we announced our plans to acquire Lorillard and its growth brand Newport which will substantially enhance our core cigarette portfolio at R.J.
Reynolds.
The potential addition of Newport to R.J.
Reynolds' lineup of growth brands is as you know a very exciting prospect.
We are working diligently to prepare our proposed acquisition for clearance by regulators in the coming months as well as for shareholder and other approvals.
I remain confident that we will reach a successful closure of the transaction in the first half of next year.
We will provide updates on the progress of the transaction as we move ahead and I encourage you to keep an eye on our new transaction website at reynoldsamericaninfo.com.
But in the meantime it really is business as usual.
I can assure you that we are keeping our focus on building our business and delivering excellent shareholder value which I'll now turn to with the discussion of our quarterly results and the progress that we are making in our transformation journey.
I'm very pleased to report that Reynolds American increased both earnings and margin in the second quarter based on the strong performance of all of our reportable business segments.
R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe each continue to benefit from their effective strategies and decision execution as their powerful key brands continue to gain market share in what is a very competitive environment.
The quarter's achievements rounded out an excellent first half for RAI and that allowed us to tighten our guidance for the full year.
We now expect gross and adjusted EPS in the range of 5% to just over 8% compared with last year's adjusted results.
I will remind you that our earnings projections take into account this year's increased investment on the VUSE digital vapor cigarette as well as ongoing equity-building initiatives on our operating companies' key brands.
Now let's discuss our performance in more detail.
At R.J.
Reynolds we saw further gains in second quarter adjusted operating income and margin.
As we said in our press release the company's cigarette volume was negatively impacted by 1 less shipping day as well as a reduction in wholesale inventory levels.
Even so it is clear that the underlying drivers of the industry-wide decline in cigarette volume includes some traditional economic pressure points as well as the growing demand for smoke-free alternative including vapor products.
However we see the growth of the vapor category as a great opportunity for R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company which is currently expanding its VUSE digital vapor cigarette nationally.
Even with the decline in R.J.
Reynolds cigarette volume I'm pleased to report strong market share performance by its Camel and Pall Mall growth brands.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds' total market share was down only slightly at 26.5% for the quarter.
On a combined basis Camel and Pall Mall now account for more than 70% of the company's total cigarette share of market.
Together these brands increased their market share by 0.5 share point to 19.5%.
Camel grew its market share by 0.4 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 10.2%.
The brand continues to benefit from growth in its premium menthol styles which have grown to 4.3% of the market.
Camel SNUS also continued to perform well in the quarter maintaining its leadership position in the SNUS category with about 80% of this market.
As you know the Camel brand offers a range of experiences and bold innovations and adult tobacco consumers are taking up the invitation in the Taste It All marketing campaign currently underway.
From authentic Camel Blues to Camel Crush with its menthol capsule technology and the smoke-free convenience of Camel SNUS.
Pall Mall continues to benefit from its true value positioning as a longer-lasting cigarette at a great price.
The brand remains the nation's top-selling value brand and added 0.1 of a share point in the second quarter to 9.3%.
Now turning to American Snuff.
The moist snuff category remains highly competitive but the company reported solid performance in the quarter and for the first half of the year.
While American Snuff saw a volume decline in the quarter due to lower wholesale inventories the company increased its market share by 0.5 share point to 34.4%.
Once again American Snuff's flagship Grizzly brand drove the company's performance.
Grizzly did benefit from increased promotional support in response to more intense competitive activity but the brand's equity is second to none and that continues to drive its appeal.
Grizzly has begun one of its biggest marketing campaigns yet called Days of Roar which gives brand enthusiasts a chance to win prizes by mixing it up and sharing outdoor stories and photos.
I would also note that the recent national expansion of Grizzly's Wide Cut Wintergreen style is proving very successful.
And the brand continues to perform especially well in the fast-growing pouch segment.
Now turning to Santa Fe which just continues to build momentum.
The company reported a double-digit increase in operating income for the quarter as well as the first half and operating margin continue to improve.
The company's Natural American Spirit brand continues to grow its market share gaining 0.2 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 1.6%.
Natural American Spirit has an extremely loyal franchise for its additive-free natural tobacco styles and the brand is seeing increased interest in its styles made with organic tobacco.
Before I hand the call to Tom for more details I'd like to give you a quick update on the progress being made by VUSE digital vapor cigarette.
As you know VUSE started the first wave of its national expansion in June and the next phase is scheduled for early September.
The rollout is going well and VUSE is now in about 21 000 selected retail outlets.
I'm thrilled by VUSE's strong performance into its first major market in Colorado which was followed by Utah Wisconsin and Indiana.
This is a game-changing vapor product that we believe will carve out a leading position in the vapor category.
We continue to believe that vapor will be a key dynamic in the transformation of the tobacco industry.
VUSE is an excellent example of one of our company's key strengths innovation.
And now we hope to take advantage of the opportunity to expand this technology globally with our pursuit of a technology-sharing agreement with British American Tobacco which offers opportunity for further development and commercialization for next-generation products.
We'll keep you updated as we make progress on this initiative.
And one last thing I'd like to mention: this Friday is a big day for us when we celebrate RAI's 10th anniversary by ringing the closing bell on the New York Stock Exchange.
So if you have a moment please tune in and join us for this milestone.
We've accomplished a great deal over these past 10 years but even more important I'm confident that great things lie ahead.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
RAI again delivered strong operating performance in the second quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $0.89 which was up 6% from the prior year quarter.
As higher pricing the ongoing benefit from the partial settlement of certain NPM Adjustment claims and the favorable impact from the share repurchase program more than offset lower cigarette volumes and the investment behind VUSE.
Adjusted results exclude a $0.04 one-time benefit from the settlement of the NPM dispute payments with 2 additional states Kentucky and Indiana as well as charges at $0.01 related to Engle progeny lawsuits and implementation costs.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was $0.92 up 9.5% from the prior year quarter.
For the first half adjusted EPS was $1.60 up 2.6% from the prior year.
Please note that this also excludes the items I just mentioned as well as the earlier gain of $0.04 from discontinued operations.
Our adjusted operating margin came in very strong gaining 0.8 of a percentage point in the quarter to 37.4%.
As Susan mentioned we have tightened our earnings guidance to a range of $3.35 to $3.45 versus our prior guidance of $3.30 to $3.45.
This guidance excludes the one-time benefit from the NPM partial settlement the gain from discontinued operations and charges for implementation costs Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
Guidance also reflects this year's investment on the national expansion of VUSE as well as continued initiatives to build the equity of our operating company's key brands.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
At R.J.
Reynolds second quarter adjusted operating income increased nearly 5.5% to $698 million as higher pricing and lower MSA costs more than offset the cigarette volume decline.
For the second quarter the company's adjusted operating margin increased 3.3 percentage points to 40.2% bringing first half adjusted margin to 38%.
Turning to cigarette volumes.
Susan has already covered the factors impacting cigarette volumes so I'll focus on the details of the changes.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter cigarette shipments declined 8.3% from the prior year quarter while industry volume was down about 5.5%.
Taking into account adjustments for wholesale inventory changes the company estimates that its volume was down about 6.8% while industry volume was down about 4.4%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6 billion units at the end of the second quarter down about 1.1 billion from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.6 billion were down about 400 million.
I would note that we've seen some recovery in inventory levels this month.
At American Snuff second quarter operating income of $110 million was up slightly from the adjusted prior year quarter and this brought the first half to $212 million.
The company benefited from higher pricing in both periods which more than offset increased promotional support on Grizzly.
American Snuff's second quarter operating margin remains strong at 56.3% bringing the first half margin to 55.7%.
Turning to the company's moist snuff volume.
American Snuff's volume was down slightly in the quarter primarily impacted by 1 less shipping day and lower wholesale inventory levels.
However adjusting for the wholesale inventory change the company estimates that its volume rose by about 4.6%.
For the industry moist snuff volume growth held steady at about 4%.
Moving on to Santa Fe's performance.
Higher volume and pricing drove an increase in second quarter operating income of just over 15% to $84 million.
And that brought Santa Fe's first half operating income to $149 million which was up 19.3% from the adjusted prior year quarter.
Santa Fe's second quarter operating margin came in at 49.6% up 0.4 of a percentage point from the adjusted prior year quarter.
As Susan told you the Natural American Spirit brand made further gains in market share and that was on volume growth of nearly 8%.
Now I'd like to cover some of RAI's other financial highlights.
We completed our $2.5 billion share repurchase program in the quarter which we started back in November of 2011.
During the quarter the company purchased 4.8 million shares for $267 million.
Total shares repurchased under the program were 55.4 million for a total of $2.5 billion.
The average price paid was $45.16.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.3 billion and this takes into account R.J.
Reynolds' MSA payment of $1.5 billion in April.
All in all it's been a very successful first half for RAI and our operating companies' businesses and we're focused on continuing that strong momentum.
In addition the excitement around our plans to purchase Lorillard has certainly been evident here and we'll be reporting progress when there are further developments on that front.
The Lorillard acquisition provides a great opportunity to propel our business to the next level providing an enhanced platform for RAI to deliver even greater value to our shareholders and continue our transformation journey.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Sam would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nik Modi of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on -- regarding the margins in the RJRT business.
Obviously very strong despite its pricing in MSA.
And I'm just trying to see if there's anything else going on there in terms of just cost controls any new programs going on internally if you can just provide some perspective around that.
Nik really it's the net price realization.
You could see those numbers 5.7% at RJRT net price realization in the quarter that's very strong.
The market continues to be competitive but I feel very proud of our businesses in the way we're balancing profitability and market share.
The brands are performing very well and that has -- and we've been successful in growing the margins.
So it was a very good quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And Susan on the pricing topic I mean I'm just trying to get an understanding because it looks like there's just been a nice step up starting with Altria when they reported last week.
So I'm just trying to understand what exactly has changed because the pricing has accelerated quite a bit quarter-to-quarter.
Well but -- obviously the impact of the price increase that came in May has fallen through to the quarter and the competitive environment has been relatively stable and you can see there's actually more competition going on in that moist sector.
You can see that in the net price realization in the difference.
And in the cigarette category everybody's competing.
But the price realization has come through across the board.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the pricing because certainly it was strong but is it also to do with the fact that the price increase during the quarter came a month earlier than the year-ago period so I imagine that also had a positive impact.
But were there other factors that drove the better pricing such as you guys being more efficient with your programs at retail? That's my first question.
And as vapor and e-cigs increasingly displace cigs affordability really has been one of the key reasons.
So what impact do you think this will have on combustible cig pricing power over the long term? Well I'll -- Bonnie this is Tom.
I'll answer the first part on the net price realization.
You're right the price increase this year came earlier in May and so most of the price protection had -- that we had done for our partners got flushed through the -- by the end of May which left June as a month that we actually could enjoy the increased pricing.
And so that actually benefited this year versus last year.
And on the vapor piece I think it's still early going.
And yes there are differences but some of those vapor cigarettes and as well as our cartridges do have a cost advantage over traditional cigarettes.
But there's still obviously a place in -- for combustible cigarettes in this business.
Yes.
I would add to that Bonnie.
I mean I think Tom's right it is early days and you have to think of this wholesale inventory kind of issue in that wholesalers are being asked to take in a whole new variety of products.
And so there's been a lot of launches in the vapor space.
And of course there's only so much money to put into inventory.
But I don't think we're seeing yet any displacement in terms of pricing capacity in the combustible space.
I don't see that trading off.
And consumers' desires to try these vapor products is also driven by the desire for trying new categories.
So I think we'll see how this plays out.
But I -- we have seen lots of pricing over the years here in this market.
We've seen price elasticities remain constant for decades.
And we know on a global basis it's still not relatively high.
So I think that the business is strong and the brands are performing well and there's competition out there and consumers are trying alternative.
But anytime you have a new category in a growth mode it's hard to see the full effects of that for -- until we put some months underneath it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes no that's a very good point.
And then just in terms of some of your own internal market research how much do you estimate this category is negatively impacting combustible cigs now? I mean could you quantify how big of impact vapor is having in your view? And then it appears that the personal vaporized or type products are really where the market is heading somewhat away from the cig-alike e-cigs.
So I'd be curious to hear your thoughts and how this is playing out and maybe how your technology stacks up.
Well I think our opinion it's early days even on the consumer side.
Because people are trying lots of stuff and they're giving up on it and they're going back and trying other one.
I think really we believe VUSE is a game-changing product because it truly does satisfy the consumer in a way that almost all other I suspect e-cig-alikes do not.
And if we look at even the -- what do we call the pipe Oh the tanks.
The tanks the tanks.
If we look at the tanks and if we look when VUSE went into Colorado was before that tank sort of alternative had become the wave and we've seen very low development in the tank space.
So I feel very confident that as VUSE rolls out nationally and people can be satisfied with VUSE which doesn't have the refilling issue it's very convenient it's very sanitary et cetera.
I believe we'll see VUSE make a real impact on that market.
But consumers are experimental and we'll have to see where we land.
But I believe that our objective is to become a leader in this vapor category and that VUSE has the capacity to deliver that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just in terms of trying to quantify it do you feel comfortable putting a number to what percentage of smokers are vaping maybe exclusively and then maybe just some of the time just based on some of your research [ph].
No that's what I -- I can't yet Bonnie.
It's just a little bit too early.
But we do know that 40% of adult tobacco consumers are interested in trying these alternatives.
Now that's an intent it's not a statement of -- but a very high percentage of people we do know have tried vapor.
What is very hard to say at this stage is how many of them are switching how many are dual-using how many have turned it into [indiscernible] how many -- so but this will come out in the next few months as VUSE becomes national.
And of course our competitors are all out there now in national distribution.
We'll be able to read that and we'll certainly provide more information as it becomes available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just last follow-up to that is in the quarter adjusted industry volumes were down 4.5% which is trending below historical I know it's just 1 quarter but last year was down as well.
So how do you think about this over the next few years? Do you think minus 4% or minus 5% for industry volume declines is now the new norm? We are thinking this year will be down 4%.
But I think we again very much need to see how these alternatives play out.
Because if that's -- traditional combustibles but vapor grows faster and we have equivalent margins on vapor that we have to the combustibles then that may not be so material.
But it's just early.
But we do think this year we're halfway through there's been some inventory switches so we are thinking it's 4% this year.
And as I said we'll keep you posted.
Our next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to ask you a couple of questions about the proposed Lorillard purchase.
And the first is how do you think you'll earn your cost of capital and how long do you think it will take to get there? And I ask that because on the information you've provided with full synergies you expect an additional $1.7 billion in EBIT.
But the cost net of the divestitures after tax the total cost of the buying and selling businesses and brands is over $23 billion.
So that's my first question.
How do you exceed your cost of capital and how long do you think it will take to get there? Well Dave.
This is Tom.
I think we're -- as we've mentioned in our opening remarks we expect to close this in the middle of 2015.
And so we expect accretion that would begin that year to build to -- in the mid-teens by 2016 and into '17 and thereafter maintain and actually probably increase over time.
And what we've built in this $800 million those are just cost synergies.
I mean we really haven't put anything in about revenue synergies.
And -- but we would expect that there would be revenue synergies in the way that we would expect to sell more units of Newport and more units of Camel as a result of the geographic complementary nature of those brands.
Research Division</strong> And Tom what assumption are you making about the baseline level of EPS that Reynolds would have in calculating that level of accretion? In other words just as one example are you assuming that Reynolds would continue or would not have continued with its recent pace of buybacks? We would -- we were assuming that Reynolds would continue but not with the -- but not -- we hadn't put any buybacks in our forecast because we have none approved by the board.
So basically a run rate on Reynolds without buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Separately am I right that the 2 additional states that entered into the NPM adjustment generate an annual ongoing benefit to EPS of about $0.04 a share for full year 2014? And if that's the case is that the principal driver of the change in your guidance for the year? You're right about the $0.04.
But that is not the principal reason to drive our guidance up.
Our business is operating better.
David I think it's funny -- this is Susan because we always got discredited when we lost our brands in the tail.
We lost the market share and of course now the NPM credit which is actually a credit because we lost the market share of the tail we're getting discredited for.
So it's rather ironic.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last thing can you give us some sense of the likely trajectory of losses at VUSE in that division? The losses were up sequentially presumably you're close to the peak level of losses.
Or maybe saying it a different way when do you think that business given how you envision operating the investment spending when do you think it gets to breakeven? Well as you've seen in our results in the Other segment that's where VUSE is we would expect to continue to invest in that business through the balance of this year.
And all this is in our guidance -- contemplated by our guidance -- and into the early part of next year.
But sometime by the middle of next year in '15 we would expect this to be a profitable business.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
And firstly just a quick one on Grizzly.
I was just wondering how much of the volumes are now in pouches and how does this compare to a year ago? And then secondly on VUSE how much further capacity do you need to add in the second half? And also obviously as this category is one that's evolving very rapidly I was just wondering how flexible is the factory in terms of developing the product into newer versions? Would this require a significant more amount of investment or is it easily just switched into newer versions quite quickly? Thanks Owen.
I think Grizzly's -- the percent of Grizzly volume that today is in pouches is give or take 15% and Morris will check that figure and if it's wrong he will call you.
But I think it's 15%.
And we are delighted because Grizzly has performed very well in that pouch category.
It is the fastest-growing category in moist and has been for the past several years.
In terms of the VUSE capacity we are ramping up we are pleased with the way the machines and the capacity has come online.
And we have already contemplated sort of next-generation manufacturing and it's built into our plan.
So I would say you're absolutely right that this category requires nimbleness and flexibility and we are completely aware of that.
The other thing that I think is exciting is the opportunity for VUSE technology and future next-generation products as we explore this R&amp;D and technology-sharing relationship with BAT.
Because that will enable fast capacity growth and I think nimble R&amp;D turnaround.
So we're excited about that.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question has to do with VUSE.
While I recognize that the first wave is still very early days having come out in late June.
I was wondering whether you could maybe comment on Wisconsin and Indiana which went out a couple of weeks earlier and whether you're seeing trends consistent with Colorado and Utah? Vivien it's still a little bit too early for that.
We will certainly keep you posted we are pleased in terms of the reorders.
There's nothing that has surprised us and we're still very pleased with the results.
But I think it's a little premature to give those states specific numbers.
But we are very happy also with this broader rollout.
And the next wave of the rollout is going out 1st of September.
And we'll be looking and giving more specifics as to when we will get to truly national.
But we're quite optimistic.
We've also held that back a bit of the marketing because we want to be sure we have that geographic presence.
So we're looking for a great success as we come in to this third and fourth quarter and we'll provide the numbers as they become available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
That dovetails perfectly into my next question.
Can you quantify the retail footprint that you're targeting for wave 2 in September for the VUSE rollout? We actually haven't specifically decided exactly which stores it will be in at this juncture.
And that's because frankly as we came out and went national towards at the end of June we have to see what capacity looks like and demand.
And if the demand is anywhere close to what it's like in Colorado and Utah then we actually may scale back the demand or try and increase the amount of capacity that we have or some combination of both.
Yes.
I would just add to say that we are fully committed to getting a very strong national footprint like the 140 000 type of outlet level by the first quarter.
So we just have to see how that unfolds.
LLC Research Division</strong> And of the 21 000 outlets that VUSE is currently in are you experiencing capacity constraints at all? Are any of those outlets are on allocation? Not -- there are no outlets on allocation and actually we had build up inventory in advance of all this stuff.
So we're in good shape and the machines are coming online and things are starting to hum.
So we're very confident with where we are right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very good news.
My last question has to do with the tobacco buyout expense that will get eliminated in the fourth quarter.
Any updated thinking on the role that pricing will play in terms of driving earnings growth? Look I mean you're right about the tobacco quota buyout going away.
With respect to how that manifests itself going forward is -- in terms of -- I'm not going to speculate on that.
Vivien we're not the price leader here.
So we'll see what happens.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions for you.
I wanted to ask first have you -- said you've submitted your application to the FTC for the merger yet is that still to come? Have you indicated that yet? Chris we are actually filing the HSR today.
So we are just now saying that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Good timing.
Just 2 more quick questions if I could.
I want to -- if you look at the investments you made in the prior year -- started in the prior year behind your core equities your brand equities have those continued this rate or have you shipped [ph] some of those dollars I mean now you've got an important one in VUSE this year and a big launch.
So I'm just curious how those investments have gone across the brands Camel Pall Mall Grizzly and Santa Fe around the VUSE investments? Chris this is Tom.
It's been pretty stable and it's largely on Camel and Grizzly and Natural American Spirit with a slight amount on Pall Mall.
But these are all equity-building investments consumer engagement those types of things which we feel are very impactful to the consumers in the converting.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And to that point then Tom launching VUSE and having a more aggressive investment in VUSE I mean your -- sort of your net investment if you want to call it that your brand-building is actually your equity building has just gone up this year is that what you're saying? Yes definitely.
The investment with -- when you add VUSE into that patch and we've said there's other investments behind VUSE.
If you think about things like merchandising materials and VUSE has got racks hopefully you've seen them on many chain stores in your area.
But so that's sort of a one-time thing with the merchandisers.
And so VUSE had incremental launch expense and the other brands have had continued equity-building promotional support.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final question.
As you look at the brands of Winston Salem and Kool that you're divesting is there any need for you to invest in those brands in the short run to maybe stabilize their market share performances or basically to hand them off in a better position when that occurs or when the merger closure next year.
We're obviously keeping an eye on them because we've sold them -- we've sold the package.
Clearly Imperial is planning to support some of those brands.
And so we'll obviously keep an eye on that.
But I think we're going to have a strong competitor Imperial.
We're delighted to be acquiring Newport into the R.J.
Reynolds portfolio.
We believe we will have the strongest and most balanced portfolio in the industry.
So obviously we will keep an eye because this divestiture package will be handed off upon closure of the transaction.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> You just mentioned what a strong Imperial you consider -- what a strong competitor you consider Imperial to be.
But you also alluded earlier to potential revenue synergies.
How do you balance those 2 in terms of needing to kind of equip them meaningfully enough to convince regulators that they're a viable competitor but also having brands that are being divested that have lost share within your portfolio? Do you expect those brands to gain share from you post-deal? Do you expect to gain share -- what's the right way to think about how to balance that together? Well I think if you think about that Imperial will have 10 share points and today they have like 2 share points and they're a global competitor you can see how -- and they will invest in those brands and of course we have not invested in those brands particularly.
But I believe -- and so yes there'll be some movement in the market.
But I believe that our profiles and our -- the geographic balance that we will gain in the growth portfolio and our demographic profile will compete very very well.
And of course we'll still have what are quite often affectionately called tail brands.
We still have in the portfolio if the transaction is approved 90% of our volume will be in the drive brand.
But we also will still have 10% of the volume in some of our current support or non -- the sort of non-support brands with Misty and Capri and Old Gold and of course there's still other deep-discount brands and businesses out in the market.
So there'll still be some market share in flux I would say.
But I believe Imperial will be a strong competitor.
But I believe we will have in my opinion the strongest most balanced brand portfolio and our commitment to this transformation of the tobacco industry with our participation in categories across the space committed to offer adult tobacco consumers a full range of products.
As we've said before including Niconovum.
I feel that we will be excellently well served to achieve that vision.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And you mentioned filing the HSR today.
Can you just give a sense of what some of -- any other of the next steps are or milestones to watch for or just a little bit of some of the timing in terms of what to expect? Yes.
We will update when we can Chris on the reynoldsamericaninfo.com.
I've been advised that the process is actually fairly private in the context that there won't be a lot of visibility of that review process as it's unfolding.
But whatever we know and can disclose we will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up on VUSE.
You alluded to this earlier when you were talking about warehouse inventory constraints.
But in terms of -- you also said there was the trade deloading that impacted some of the cigarette volumes.
Are those related is there certainly a dip in the shipments on cigarettes just because of VUSE going national late in the quarter? And then related to that are you seeing the same thing with any pressure on facings at retail? Michael this is Tom.
I don't think there's any relationship between the inventory deload on the combustible cigarette side and our national launch of VUSE.
And with respect to are we losing any space? No we're not losing any space.
I mean we're actually plugging those VUSE fixtures into the middle of what had been basically a flipper in the contracted space.
So we're not losing any visible facings.
I think what you have to think about is that the wholesalers and the retailers there's a -- VUSE has gone nationally our competitors have gone national that it's just that the wholesaler and retailer have been asked to invest either more money in inventory across the space or they're reducing some of their volume in the combustibles to accommodate the inventory requirements of these launches.
So Altria was out there with a big launch VUSE really is relatively small compared to that.
But I just think we're going to see how these inventories net out.
I think Tom mentioned in his script we've seen some recoveries in those inventories as we've come into July.
So we'll keep you posted.
Research Division</strong> But at retail the facings are 100% incremental or I guess something very close to that? They're not all incremental.
But -- so we've recalibrated some of our space to place VUSE and that can impact the inventory.
But what primarily predicts the inventory is the demand.
And -- but retailers and wholesalers will be balancing that with incremental requests to buy more new stock.
So -- but we feel confident that we have the space to accommodate what we need at retail and we have a strong portfolio to do that.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Susan so just on the -- on your comment about the technology-sharing agreement that you're pursuing with BAT.
Maybe a little bit more color around just given the relationship that both companies have had in the past what may have been preventing the agreement to go forward in a more accelerated fashion? What would drive that agreement to essentially accelerate going forward? And maybe just some timeline that could help us out in terms of how we're thinking about the past.
I think well we have shared technology.
As you know Reynolds developed the capsule technology and we've licensed that to British American Tobacco.
So we've done this more in sort of one-off technology areas.
And I think both companies as the strategies -- BAT's strategy on a global basis and Reynolds' strategy in terms of our vision to transform the industry here in the United States I think those strategies have dovetailed.
And so British American Tobacco is very interested in heat-not-burn opportunities and of course we've done a lot of development over the years in that space.
And I think they view very positively our VUSE technology.
So the opportunity for us to sort of work together and not duplicate in that space I think will result in better and stronger R&amp;D because of less duplication and a faster commercialization of new technology.
And certainly with the FDA here in the U.S.
and preapprovals being required for certain new product offerings doesn't mean that new product offerings can't be launched elsewhere with more rapidity.
And I think that's an opportunity.
And that all shareholders on both sides will benefit.
And so Judy the other answer to your question we have not defined specifically the structure of that initiative.
Because as you can appreciate we were working hard on the 4-party transaction.
And now we are sitting down with BAT who are very interested in figuring out how we'll structure this to all parties' benefit.
Research Division</strong> And would that -- would the deal have to close before that agreement to be structured in a way that both parties would benefit? No.
Absolutely not.
That will be totally separate unrelated and we want that initiative up and running certainly before we would expect to close the transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one clarification on the potential transaction.
Is there any impact on your MSA cost or FDA user fee or anything with respect to the brands you're transferring to Imperial potentially? No there's not.
Those will just go straight across.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Sachin Shah of Albert Fried.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I'd like to turn the call back to management for any further remarks.
Okay.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to Reynolds American Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll review Reynolds American results for the third quarter and nine months as well as our outlook for the balance of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thanks Morris.
Good morning everyone.
Im delighted with RAIs results for the third quarter which reflects the continued strong performance of our operating companies.
For some time now our strategy has been to strengthen the operational performance and profitability of our core cigarette and moist snuff businesses.
As you can see from todays report these efforts are really paying off.
Earnings and margin are up across the Board and our companies key brand remained a powerful force in the competitive marketplace.
Our companies are also building for the long-term and that means investing in platforms for sustainable growth in an evolving environment as part of our strategy to transform the tobacco industry.
This too is paying off.
For example Im very pleased with the results today of the national expansion of VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette which began in June.
By early next week VUSE will available in almost 70 000 selected retail outlets across the country and this will be followed by an additional wave of expansion early in the New Year.
VUSE production capacity is still being ramped up and I would remind everyone that the company will continue to make substantial investments on VUSE in the fourth quarter in line with the brands expansion.
A second investment in our transformational product portfolio is the national expansion of Niconovum USAs ZONNIC and RT gum which is generating strong interest from retailers and smokers.
ZONNIC which performed very well in its initial markets of Iowa and Omaha is expected to be in about 8 000 selected outlets by the end of October and its national presence will continue to grow through the rest of this year.
We will have a lot more to say about VUSE and ZONNIC as well as other innovative development during the webcast of our Annual Investor Day presentation next month.
So thats a top level look at our successful performance to-date.
Before I turn to the quarters performance in more detail I want to welcome Debra Crew as the new President and Chief Commercial Officer of R.J.
Reynolds.
Debra who joined us at the beginning of this month has extraordinary experience in growing some of Americas best known consumer brands and I know that she is going to play a key role in our mission to lead the transformation of the tobacco industry.
I also want to give you a quick update on where we are with the Lorillard transaction.
We continue to work hard on obtaining the necessary regulatory shareholder and other approval for our proposed acquisition of Lorillard including the divestiture of select brands and assets to Imperial Tobacco.
As expected we received the second request for additional information from the Federal Trade Commission and we are in the process of responding to that.
We have also just filed our preliminary joint proxy statement and prospectus with the SEC.
As you know this is a complex process but all in all things are progressing smoothly.
I remain confident that we will reach a successful closure of the transaction in the first half of next year and transition planning is well underway.
I would remind you that we have a dedicated transaction website at reynoldsamericaninfo.com and we will continue to update you on progress as new information become available.
Now lets turn to the discussion of our quarterly results.
Reynolds American increased both adjusted earnings and margin in the third quarter on net sales growth of almost 5% wrapping up a strong first nine months.
As a result of this successful performance and with a clear eye on whats in store for the rest of 2014 I am pleased to say that we are on track to meet our earnings guidance for the full year.
Today we reaffirmed that we expect an increase in adjusted EPS of 5% to 8.2% over last years adjusted results.
Id remind you that this projection takes into account the investments behind VUSE as well as the ongoing equity building initiative on our operating companies key brands.
Naturally there is an impact on short-term earnings from these investments but these expenditures position us well for profitable long-term growth.
R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe really came through in the third quarter with higher net pricing realization being a significant contributor to earnings and margin growth.
Our companies also continue to refine their approach to balancing market share and profit growth.
During the quarter R.J.
Reynolds also benefited from a moderation in its cigarette volume decline especially when compared to the first half of this year.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share which were supported by solid performance of its growth brand Camel and Pall Mall was down one-tenth of 1% from the prior year quarter at 26.6%.
For the first nine months their share was flat with the prior year period and the combined cigarette market share for RAIs operating companies was up in each quarter this year and increased by two-tenths of a share point for the first nine months.
R.J.
Reynolds growth brand Camel and Pall Mall had a combined market share of 19.7% for the quarter thats up three-tenths of the percentage point.
Again it's worth noting that R.J.
Reynolds streamlined portfolio and strategic focus on these two brands has made a huge difference to the company's bottom-line.
Camel continue to deliver great performance increasing its third quarter market share by four-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 10.4% and that was on volume growth of 3%.
This growing momentum was seen across both its regular and menthol styles.
Camels growth is driven by its very strong brand equity and its also clear that the companys innovative capsule technology on the brands menthol offering has been a significant factor in the brands growth.
CAMEL Snus also continued to perform well in the quarter maintaining its leadership position in this Snus category with about 80% of that market.
Pall Mall the nations number one value brand by a wide margin delivered solid performance in the quarter with the market share at 9.3%.
Pall Mall continues to maintain its strong conversion rate of about 50% among adult smokers who try the brand.
Going forward Pall Mall is expected to benefit from a recent upgrade in its packaging.
This incorporates a more modern look and each pack is embossed for a premium in-hand feel and appearance.
Now turning to American Snuff which continues to perform well in a highly competitive promotional environment the company reported a double-digit increase in third quarter operating income and its operating margin came in very strong.
American Snuff flagship Grizzly brand increased market share during the quarter to 31.1%.
The company continues to invest in equity building initiative to further enhance the Grizzly brand.
At Santa Fe third quarter performance was outstanding.
The company also delivered double-digit operating income growth well its operating margin continue to widen.
Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit cigarette brand found new opportunities for growth for its additive-free tobacco styles including those made with organic tobacco.
Natural American Spirit packaging was also recently upgraded aligning its iconic logo across the portfolio.
The brand added two-tenths of a share point from the prior year quarter to 1.7%.
So thats the top level review of a very successful quarter and first nine months.
Before I hand the call to Tom for more detail Id like to mention another highlight which speaks to the effort of all our companies are making on long-term sustainability.
RAI announced in September that it had been selected again to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index.
We greatly value this independent recognition as it demonstrates our commitment to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Now Ill turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
We wrapped up an excellent nine months at RAI with third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.95 which was up 10.5% from the prior year quarter.
Higher pricing was a significant factor as well as the ongoing benefit from the partial settlement of certain NPM adjustment claims and the favorable impact from the share repurchase program that we completed in the second quarter of this year.
These items more than offset lower cigarette volumes and the investment behind VUSE.
These adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.05 per share for transaction-related and financing costs and the charge of $0.02 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits.
On reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.88 up 4.8% from the prior year quarter.
From the first nine months adjusted EPS was $2.55 up almost 5.5% from the prior year period.
This also excludes the items I've just mentioned as well as the one-time benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement a gain on discontinued operations and charges for implementation costs and other tobacco-related litigation earlier in the year.
RAIs adjusted operating margin also continued to improve increasing two-tenths of a percentage point to 38%.
As Susan mentioned we are reaffirming our earnings guidance for the full year in the range of $3.35 to $3.45 per share.
I would note that this guidance excludes the items I just referenced that were excluded from the nine months results.
Our guidance also reflects this years investment on the national expansion of VUSE as well as continued initiatives to build the equity of our operating companies key brands.
Now Ill turn to our operating companies performance where I will focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
RJ Reynolds had an especially good quarter with adjusted operating income increasing by just over 14.5% to $748 million as higher pricing and lower MSA cost more than offset the cigarette volume decline.
The companys adjusted operating margin came in very strong as well increasing 4.1 percentage points to 41.6% and that brought nine month adjusted margin to 39.2%.
As Susan mentioned the decline in cigarette volumes moderated during the third quarter.
RJ Reynolds third quarter cigarette shipments declined 2.9% from the prior year quarter while industry volume was down about 2.3%.
After adjusting for changes in wholesale inventory levels RJ Reynolds estimate their volume declined about 4.3% while industry volume was down about 2.7% in the quarter.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 7 billion units at the end of the third quarter down about 800 million from the prior year quarter while RJ Reynolds inventories of approximately 1.7 billion were down about 200 million.
At American Snuff third quarter operating income increased by almost 11% to $117 million bringing the first nine months to $329 million up 6.5%.
The benefit of higher pricing and volume more than offset additional promotional support required in the highly competitive moist snuff market and these higher support levels are expected to continue in the fourth quarter.
American Snuffs third quarter operating margin increased 0.8 percentage point to 57.8% and that brought the companys nine month margin to 56.4%.
Turning to moist-snuff volume American Snuffs volume increased 2.9% from the prior year quarter compared to the industry growth of about 3% to 4%.
Grizzlys volume increased 3.6% for the quarter.
Now Ill turn to Santa Fe's performance which also benefited from higher pricing and volume.
The company increased third quarter operating income by just over 19% to $98 million.
Santa Fe's nine month operating income came in at $247 million which was also up more than 19% from the adjusted prior year period.
Third quarter operating margin at Santa Fe was 54.5% which was up 3.5 percentage points from the prior year quarter.
For the nine months operating margin was just over 51%.
The companys Natural American Spirit brand continued to advance in the quarter reporting volume growth of nearly 8%.
Now turning to the balance sheet I would note that Reynolds American ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.3 billion.
So that concludes todays overview.
We're on track to finish the year in strong form and we're making good progress in bringing our plan to purchase Lorillard to successful close.
We remain focused on returning excellent value to our shareholders and our companies are doing a great job in fulfilling that commitment.
Thank you.
Now we will turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Nik.
Good morning Nik.
So I never thought I would be saying this but looked like pricing is almost too high this quarter.
Just I was wondering if you can give any context around that.
And then the second question really is to the degree you can share what kind of information has the SEC asked for regarding the second request? Sure Nike.
It's hard to say that pricing can be too good to be honest with you I think.
We were obviously delighted with Camel and Pall Malls performance as well as Natural American Spirit and certainly on the cigarette side pricing performed very very well.
And you saw that industry volumes moderated.
We're looking now at about 3.5% for the year and so that obviously played a role as well.
We are very focused right now rolling out VUSE and of course competing assertively in the moist snuff space which is -- its still got quite a lot of promotional activity.
As it relates to the SEC its really not a transparent process.
What I will say though is that there are no surprises in the request that weve received and we are working diligently to comply with those requests to submit all the information that they have asked for and we remain confident that we will close the transaction in the first half of next year.
And just one more for me.
The volume trajectory in the cigarette category obviously has improved sequentially.
And I am just hoping maybe you can provide some reconciliation with that and kind of all the talk about the e-cigarette and vaping category if you can just help tie those two together? Its still very early days Nik to talk about what is substitution or otherwise.
But my hypothesis in the wholesale space is that when we saw in the second quarter all of the launches and particularly in c/gas where they took in from quite a number of companies large volumes of inventory of e-cigarettes and tanks and the liquid etcetera.
And so those inventory dollars were diverted to those products and they are now managing their cigarette volumes according to offtake.
So I think its early to say exactly what is going on out there but that's what I believe was happening in the second quarter and why we sort of rebounded in the third and its a little bit more steady-state.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thanks Nik.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning Matt.
Susan I wanted to ask first about the impact of the quota buyout expiration and your level of confidence I guess that we can maintain this level of constructive pricing environment.
I know it's impossible for you to talk prospectively about competitive dynamics but how confident are you that a meaningful portion of that savings can be taken through to the bottom line? And to the extent you would reinvest it how are you weighing the potential options whether its promotion VUSE or ZONNIC? Matt we are not really the price leader here.
And so the quota buyout has expired.
We will have a few charges in the fourth quarter as those inventories roll through but we will wait and see what happens to that in terms of what happens with the industry.
We are very clear about meeting our guidance for the full year.
We have extended investments in VUSE.
As we mentioned in the release we will be in 70 000 outlets from next week.
And of course we are preparing and expensing in the fourth quarter for our next large rollout in the New Year.
So we will meet our guidance and we will wait and see how much of that quota buyout money flows through.
Okay.
And I know its clearly very very early days here but have seen any evidence of marginal changes in competitive dynamics during October thus far? No not really Matt.
I mean everything -- moist snuff market continues to be very competitive.
Camel is still looking strong I really don't see any disruption.
Okay.
And then just a question on American snuff.
First your commentary on the industry growth shifted slightly here.
I think you now see the industry volumes growing around 3% to 4% versus 4% prior.
And it seems based on your results that some added pricing realization maybe playing a role there but can you talk about any other cross-category factors that might be impacting MST growth? Not really Matt.
I mean its early days again smokers and dippers alike are obviously trying alternatives and we need to see where this land.
Grizzly we're very pleased with Grizzlys performance.
Yes there was a lot of pricing realization.
We had double-digit margin growth and it is over 31 market share.
So those growth rates in terms of its -- in this very aggressive environment are -- were happy with those results.
The other thing you have to consider is every year the category is getting bigger and so the percentage increase is under pressure I mean 3% of Xs versus 3% of X plus.
So I think we are still seeing growth in that moist category and Grizzly is performing very well.
Okay.
Understood.
And very quick last follow-up on MST.
Just you mentioned that there was some substantial pricing realization during the quarter.
Just trying to reconcile that with your commentary on a highly competitive environment.
Does that pricing realization suggest that you're seeing competitive dynamics relax a little bit or was that just a function of how you chose to manage the business during the quarter? It would be the latter Matt.
We are very conscious of balancing market share and profitability and we chose to compete in this fashion.
Okay.
Thank you Susan.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hey Vivien.
So my first question has to do with Pall Mall can you offer a little bit more in terms of specifics on the timing of the packaging change? I am just curios whether that had an impact on your market share at all given this is the first time we had seen a down market share admittedly you had a restatement but in about two years for that brand so whether that had an impact? I would say it did not have an impact.
That new packaging is really rolling out as we speak in October.
And we have been very conscious with Pall Mall to balance again market share and profitability.
And we are delighted with Pall Malls performance its continued conversion rate and its contributing significantly to the bottom line so.
Anyway -- and so I look forward to the reaction of consumers to Pall Mall new packaging because the upgrade does give it a more modern look and feel.
And we are continuing to invest in the equity because it truly has a point of difference as a longer-lasting value proposition.
Understood.
The second question is for Tom.
Tom you mentioned pricing in MSA being a key driver for RJRT operating profit growth.
Were there any cost-cutting or productivity benefits as well because OI growth is incredibly robust? I mean its just the normal ongoing manner in which we operate the business in terms of efficiencies.
As weve said cost-cutting and watching the pennies is kind of in the DNA and its been there over the years and now its embedded in the organization.
So its as much the cost savings are as much bottom-up driven as they are top-down driven.
That's great.
My last one is a housekeeping item.
Can you guys offer what Camel Menthol's share was in the quarter? We can.
Quickly refer it must be 4.3 -- Vivien Morris will get back to you on this specific.
We saw growth in Menthol and non-Menthol with Camel this quarter and it grew 4.10.
Wonderful.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning.
Morning.
Good morning.
I just had two questions for you if I could.
I did want to ask a bit of a follow-up in relation to the category -- the cigarette category overall.
Do you have a good measurement of vapor and e-cigarette sales that you believe that encompasses the whole category? I guess I'm trying to understand was it just less of a drag this quarter? Can you go that far to say that and therefore the category did better? The description I gave previously about the wholesale inventory the buying in the second quarter a lot of people are launching in the space.
The question about having a robust e-cigarette across all channels I would say we dont.
Its early days and of course there are lots and lots of vape shops out there and our measuring devices are basically focused on cigars.
So we're watching what happens in cigars but that doesnt have the whole range of vapor product.
So we are very pleased with the early results of VUSE.
We kicked off the marketing in September.
We will go into another 35 000 outlets next week and we will look to have some more to report at Investor Day.
But it really is early days in this space.
Okay.
And just maybe a follow-up.
I think this is for Tom but in relation to the other division I know there was a lot going on there is there any way you can help with the phasing of investments just to understand how much investments -- if you are increasing your outlets further here in the fourth quarter does that mean a stepped-up sequential investment in VUSE? I know some of that investment was more front-half loaded.
I think related to that the revenues were down sequentially in that business.
There could have been a load.
I'm just curious to understand that element of it as well.
Okay.
Susan as we had in our prepared remarks we are going out to about another three five thousand outlets next week.
Okay.
And we spent some money on merchandising in the third quarter to basically have these merchandisers in store.
We will be doing the same thing in the latter part of December as we get ready for an early next year launch for our next wave.
So the spending is going to be roughly the same as what we saw in the third quarter I believe.
Okay.
And then how about the revenue being down sequentially? Is that a function of just what was shifted in prior to the -- like in 2Q for example? Weve got a number of small companies that are non-reportable segments that have been down there and some of its some of the promotional activity that we did in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Sure thing.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Bonnie.
Bonnie.
Hi.
I guess my first question is on your guidance based on what you just said.
I guess -- and the double-digit EPS growth you had in Q3 and with the buyout fee going away next quarter.
I guess I'm surprised you didn't at least take up the low-end of your EPS guidance range.
So could you help us understand that or are you just remaining or trying to remain really cautious with your guidance? Well we reaffirmed that guidance today and we will land there.
To make that range even smaller is always dangerous.
Youve got a little bit of a spread there.
Youve got to land the carrier but we will be investing in VUSE as Tom just said in the fourth quarter.
And the quarter is looking well so far but we are very confident that we will hit in that range and we will see how the quota buyout money flows through and what happens in pricing.
But we will come in that range.
Okay.
And then my next question is on VUSE because it has obviously been a very successful rollout so congratulations.
And I would like to understand then how you are going to balance the spending behind the brand driving trial as well as the new product developments.
Given how fast this industry really is evolving I would like to hear where you are at with your next-gen product especially since some of your competitors are already rolling out their new products already.
And you did mention you have more to report at Investor Day so maybe you want to save some of that for then.
Thats a good idea Bonnie.
Just suffice it to say that we are clearly focused on next-generation product and we do have plans.
But our priority is to launch VUSE our digital vapor technology which actually delivers an equivalent 200 same-puffs to smoking consumers.
This is our priority.
And getting them to try this to try VUSE is essential because you have smokers out there who have tried a lot of different e-cigarettes.
They have not found them all satisfying and so weve got to get them to try another one.
And so our promotional activities are focused on doing just that as we rollout across the country.
But we will talk more at the Investor Day.
Okay.
And then I just have one final question.
It's a follow-on on your strong pricing in the quarter and given that vapor and e-cigs really have become more and more affordable how realistic do you think it is for the strong combustible cig pricing to continue? And then I would be curious to hear from you if you think this might suggest that this combustible cig industry is primarily losing their price sense of consumers I guess? Are those the ones that are switching to these e-cig and vapor products in your mind? No Bonnie I don't have any evidence that vapor trial on an overall basis is driven by value.
Now it is early days but the combustible cigarette pricing is -- as we thought we had good pricing I mean -- and look at Natural American Spirit I mean Yeah.
I mean we keep growing that brand and that is at a substantial premium to the generally recognized premium segment.
Yeah.
No I guess I was just thinking then the ones that are staying which obviously a lot of individuals are staying in the combustible cig industry and not switching.
But maybe those are the ones that aren't necessarily looking for affordable products and maybe it's the ones that are looking for in an affordable solution that are switching.
And that could help to explain some of the strong combustible cig pricing you are seeing and generating? Yes.
I just don't have any evidence to that effect.
Okay.
As weve said to look at what is the substitution in terms of the e-liquid e-cigarettes versus combustible there is a lot of trial going on out there across the categories.
Weve always seen people dual use snus and moist or combustible and snus and we see reports of people using combustibles and vapor.
And then you see reports of people switching to vapor.
Its just too early to have a real handle on it.
No fair enough I appreciate.
Thank you.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Owen.
Apology if this has already been asked but I got cut off.
Just the shared dynamics on snuff and the share decline appears to be driven somewhat by pulling back on the promotion.
I was just wondering can we expect the pricing into the rest of the year at the expense of share or will you look to try to balance this again with some more improved share development in the fourth quarter? Thanks Owen.
We are very mindful of balancing market share and profitability.
It is very competitive in the environment and the promotion activity in moist has really not pulled back.
Now as you said we did achieve pricing.
We achieved very nice operating company growth at ASC but we will continue to balance that.
Grizzly did -- it lost a tenth and its actually still up the tenth year-over-year and it is 31 market share.
So its important to balance that and there is still quite aggressive promotion in that category.
But we will continue to manage it closely and we continue to invest in the equity behind Grizzly and to look at new innovative product to ensure its continued growth.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CSLA (sic) [CLSA].
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So back on the pricing mix at RJR it was over 6.5%.
I was wondering if you could just give us a sense last quarter you called out about an $11 million headwind from mix and $27 million year-to-date and $57 million for last year.
What was the mix component in this quarter? Did that turn positive because it certainly looks like your premium brands did well and you've got the strong number? How much was mix a contributor to that? Well mix was a contributor because we saw premium growth and Camel volume grew.
So if you have Camel and Natural American Spirit growing and of course the tail brand are shrinking but not at any accelerated rate.
So the mix enhancement certainly was positive.
Right.
And I guess just focusing on RJR for a minute because I'm thinking certainly Natural American Spirit helps but even with Camel strength over the last six quarters you've called out the mix headwinds in your Qs and Ks.
And so just curious if that number has turned positive? Have you seen a sequential improvement into mix on just RJR business as well? I actually don't have those details right in front of me Michael but right at the conclusion of this call well be filing our Q.
And I do believe that information is in the MD&amp;A and I just dont have it.
Okay.
All right no thanks.
And just on -- sort of related to that on Pall Mall with the packaging upgrade.
Is there any expectation of tweaking the price gaps and giving it this more upgraded premium look or positioning? Would you try to capture some of that in pricing or is its price positioning going to be unchanged? If price positioning is unlikely to change obviously you work with what sort of promotional spending is required to balance market share and profitability.
But we -- the packaging upgrade does not have the objective of raising the price.
Its the countrys leading value brand by a very wide margin and we will continue to balance its share and profitability.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then on VUSE how much -- to what extend is the production automated and how much if at all does that limit any of your flexibility on innovation? It is automated.
Its very automated.
In this day and age to be honest with you does it limit your flexibility not necessarily because things like robotic it can also be reengineered to robot something else.
So I think this is not a concern of ours.
Okay that's great.
And you had said last quarter that you had expected investments to continue on VUSE into early next year but that it would be profitable by around the middle of the year.
Is that still your expectation for the pacing? Yes it is.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly one other question back on RJR you mentioned the wholesale inventory shift having some impact on the volume number.
Is that a catch-up from 2Q or did that pull some out of 4Q? Is there a 4Q impact kind of on the reverse of that that we should expect? Well well have to see what inventories are in the fourth quarter.
I think thats the answer to that.
But I guess I'm just curious about the end of 3Q inventory levels.
Does that suggest that it's heavy or that there is any likely way that that would flow through into the 4Q numbers? We would say thats it -- it was quite normalized as we exceeded the third quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Its Ivan Holman sitting in for Judy.
We were wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on the impact of VUSE on your P&amp;L just in terms of potential revenue gross margin operating profit impact.
And then in terms of the production ramp-up in the timeline with regards to that it seems that you guys are still on allocation.
Could you provide a little bit of color on that as well please? With respect to VUSE we are not going to provide that information because its not a reportable segment for SEC purposes.
And so Im going to decline to do that.
And Im sorry the second part of your question was would you please repeat that.
Sure.
Could you just give us a little bit of color if possible around the timing of the production ramp-up on VUSE as you are still on allocation? Its been ramping up all year.
And as we go out to additional retail outlet we build the capacity in order to stay in that launch and then we continue to build it out.
So its going to build throughout the balance of the year.
And we are confident that we can supply.
Its their accounts that as you say where we have some allocation.
Its important as we rollout to 35 000 outlets that we supply them and so they will be supplied but we're not running short on capacity.
The ramp-up has occurred as we planned.
Thank you very much.
Congratulation on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking my question.
Tom I was hoping that you could just provide a little bit of insight into how youre generally thinking about your funding needs going forward given some of the market volatility that we had recently? Specific could you talk about how you look at cost of carry all-in-rates and then certainty of execution? Yeah.
I mean we do look at the cost of carry the negative carry.
We look at pre-funding issues and were running -- as you can imagine were running lots of different scenarios around our current portfolio and the perspective portfolio.
And at this juncture we haven't decided exactly which way were going to go.
We still believe we have some time to make that decision.
But I mean you can rest assure that we are looking at lots of different scenarios.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then just secondly it looks like the documents that have come out so far indicate that Lorillard as a significant subsidiary would theoretically become a guarantor were the bridge to be executed post closing the merger.
How do you think about the guarantee structure for new ownership? Is that something that would likely be in bonds that are newly issued? And then if that's the case how do you think about the remaining bonds that are already outstanding and the differences in the guarantee structure there? Thank you.
Weve been looking at the Lorillard bonds specifically and the guarantees around those.
And going back to what I said earlier we are working through those things.
Were looking at different scenarios and that how we would structure all those stuff once we consummate the deal.
And beyond that Im not going to comment.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Sachin Shah from Albert Fried.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good quarter congratulations.
Thank you.
Just had a question as a follow-up in regards to the FTC.
Because you have been forthcoming with the divestment package just curious to find out if there have been any comments or any conversations with them in regards to the divestment package? As you guys are bundling the information for the secondary request? That's the first question.
The second question is last week there's been some volatility obviously in the stock market but the spread based on the merger terms have been essentially getting wider.
So I know that you have been pretty confident and your comments have discussed that in detail in the confidence of closing the deal in the first quarter of next year.
Is there anything that we are missing as far as states local governments aside from the FTC any issues that you see that could be a problem for the deal not closing as expected in light of the divestment package because the spread -- the merger terms are indicating something else? Yes.
Thank you.
I would say there is -- Ive said before but there is nothing that has happened in this review process that has surprised us.
And of course there have been discussions with the FTC about the divestiture package and they will meet with all of the parties involved.
And the third-parties like the wholesalers like the retailers they are doing their job investigating the impact on competition and thats what they're supposed to do.
So there is no reason that the spread should be widening.
If you say is anything missing obviously some investors are missing confidence that it will close.
We continue to believe that we will close this transaction and that the divestiture package is very robust.
And that that will ensure that there continues to be a continuing highly competitive marketplace.
And nothing really will happen between now and the time that we know the answer.
So I think people have -- their tolerance for time must be affecting their investment theses.
But we always said this would take 9 to 12 months to close and were on that path.
Okay.
Just one follow-up question.
I know you just filed the proxy last Friday so congratulations on that but any timing for the shareholder vote? Is it possible that we could see that? I know it may be a little tight this year or is that going to be something that you are kind of shooting for early next year 2015? Well we really have to wait and see because as you know this S4 process you submit the S4 to the SEC and then they will come back with question or comment and then you resend it to them.
And they really have to sort of acknowledge and authorize before you can send it out.
And so then you have to send it out 20-days before youre going to have the shareholder vote.
So we just need to see that unfold.
But it will certainly be -- it is most likely to be in the first quarter.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James Bushnell from Exane.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you very much for taking my call.
My question was on your divestiture package given the conditions you have there whether you could tell us what the current share is of Winston Kool and Salem in aggregate in the last quarter please? We dont report those brand market shares so I would just decline to comment.
But they continued to perform as expected.
Okay.
I understand.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Im showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thanks for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we will review Reynolds American's results for the fourth quarter and full year as well as our outlook for 2015.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American reported another great quarter overall in what can only be characterized as a fantastic year.
With our continued earnings growth momentum and excellent returns to our shareholders in 2014 I'm hopeful that our investors are as pleased as we are with the year's results.
Our companies made substantial progress in many areas but I'd like to call out a few of our key achievements over the past year.
Our companies strengthened the profitability of their core cigarette and moist snuff operations through smart business strategies and execution and a tight focus on efficiency and productivity.
And they also continued to invest in the equity of their powerful key brands growing market share and profitability.
The marketplace is quite competitive so that kind of brand performance is a tribute to our companies' highly engaged and expert consumer and trade marketing teams.
And in keeping with our commitment to our investors our companies' outstanding performance yielded excellent value for shareholders.
Total shareholder return which included a dividend increase of more than 6% was just under 35% for the year again significantly outpacing the S&amp;P 500.
Before I get into more details on the quarter I want to give you a quick update on our proposed acquisition of Lorillard and the divestiture of certain assets to Imperial.
As you know the shareholders of RAI Lorillard and Imperial Tobacco approved the transaction last month which was an important milestone.
And RAI has substantially complied with the second request for information from the Federal Trade Commission.
We do not know the exact timing of an FTC decision and I can only reiterate that the process continues to proceed as expected.
And I remain confident that the deal will close in the first half of this year.
Before I turn to a review of our companies' performance let me reemphasize the important role that innovation plays as a driving force in our strategy to transform the tobacco industry.
Our companies are committed to providing superior products to meet emerging consumer preferences.
In 2014 VUSE digital vapor products were rolled out across the country after a highly successful performance in Colorado and Utah.
VUSE is now available in about 100 000 outlets primarily in convenience gas.
And VUSE is already the top-selling e-cigarette in that channel overall.
VUSE is truly satisfying.
It's simple and it's convenient to use.
And importantly VUSE is earning the trust and credibility of skeptical vapor users because of its proprietary digital vapor technology and its American assembly.
These are meaningful points of difference for adult consumers and providing them with distinctive products like VUSE is key to gaining a competitive advantage.
To build on the brand's market-leading position and growth momentum VUSE added 4 more styles to the Colorado and Utah markets in mid-December: rich mint crema chai and mint.
Adult smokers and vapor users have shown a high degree of interest in these styles.
And although it's still early days we expect these styles will broaden VUSE's appeal to adult smokers and vapors.
Another innovation case in point is Niconovum Zonnic NRT Gum which began its national expansion late in the third quarter following a positive reception from retailers and consumers in Iowa.
Zonnic also added fruit and cinnamon flavors to its portfolio last year.
This rollout is going very well and the brand is now in about 18 000 outlets primarily convenience gas as well as some drug and grocery chains.
Finally on the subject of innovative products in the fourth quarter we announced expansion plans for Revo which uses proprietary heat-not-burn technology developed by R.J.
Reynolds.
R.J.
Reynolds' expansion of Revo in Wisconsin is now underway.
And we believe that evolving consumer expectations and heightened interest in innovative tobacco products will draw attention to Revo.
Now let's turn to the discussion of our quarterly results at our operating companies.
At R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter earnings and operating margins were substantially higher on increased pricing and the favorable impact from the completion of the federal tobacco quota buyout.
And I'm pleased to say that the moderation in cigarette volume decline continued in the fourth quarter as lower gas prices and an improved employment rate benefited discretionary consumer spending.
R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share for the year was quite stable down 0.1 percentage point from the prior year at 26.5%.
R.J.
Reynolds' growth brands Camel and Pall Mall continued to perform well and now make up almost 3/4 of the company's total cigarette market share.
The combined fourth quarter share for these 2 brands grew 0.2 percentage point to 19.7%.
Camel's quarterly market share was 10.3% which was up by 0.3 percentage point which was a fitting end to a great year for Camel an iconic and innovative brand and the company's largest and fastest-growing brand.
Next month Camel will launch the Premium Camel White style in 21 Western states.
Available in mellow and menthol these styles offer an inset filter that provides adult smokers with a unique look and a smooth smoking experience.
It puts a new unique twist on Camel's rich bold flavor.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to balance Pall Mall's market share and profitability in the value category.
And in that context the brand has done very well and remains by far the nation's #1 value brand.
Pall Mall's full year market share of 9.4% was in line with the prior year period.
Pall Mall has a distinct and appealing brand and product proposition.
And the company is investing in consumer-driven opportunities to expand awareness of Pall Mall's unique brand proposition genuinely more.
As you know Pall Mall's packaging was upgraded in the fourth quarter.
All of our companies stay on top of consumer insights and continue to evolve their brands so that they stay fresh contemporary and exciting to adult smokers.
Turning to American Snuff.
The moist snuff market remains highly competitive and the company's bottom line was impacted in the fourth quarter by increased promotional spending and a modest decline in volume.
This resulted in slightly lower earnings while the operating margin remained very strong.
American Snuff continues to strike a balance between market share and profit growth for its flagship Grizzly brand.
As a result Grizzly's fourth quarter market share of 31.3% was in line with the prior year quarter and up 0.5 percentage point for the full year.
American Snuff continues to invest in equity-building initiatives to further enhance the brand.
For example Grizzly Dark Wintergreen is being expanded nationally and has received very positive results in Indiana.
Dark Wintergreen offers a differentiated darker and richer wintergreen flavor.
At Santa Fe performance was very strong once again.
Higher pricing in the fourth quarter coupled with higher volume delivered operating income growth of almost 25%.
Santa Fe's super premium Natural American Spirit brand added another 0.3 percentage point in market share to 1.8% making it 1 of the top 10 cigarette brands in the U.S.
Natural American Spirit's packaging was also recently upgraded contributing to the growth of its additive-free tobacco styles including those made with organic tobacco.
I hope you'll agree with me that RAI and its operating companies posted a successful fourth quarter and a very strong full year.
And before I hand the call to Tom for more details I'd like to say a few words about his upcoming retirement.
This will be Tom's last earnings call.
He will be succeeded as CFO by Andrew Gilchrist next month.
Tom will stay on as Executive Vice President until later this year to ensure a smooth transition and to provide oversight on completion of the transaction and the initial integration process.
Tom you have been an outstanding member of the RAI leadership team and I thank you for your invaluable contributions to the company's success.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
I must say it's been a great experience over the years and I'm proud of the results we have achieved.
It's good to know that I'll be leaving the business in strong hands.
I would like to thank everyone on the call for your interest over these many years and I wish you well.
Now let's take a look at the financials.
RAI finished the year in strong form increasing fourth quarter adjusted EPS by 13% from the prior year quarter to $0.87.
Once again higher pricing was a significant factor and the completion of the federal tobacco quota buyout had a positive impact as well.
These major items more than offset lower cigarette volumes and the investments behind VUSE and our company's key brands.
These adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.51 per share pensions and postretirement mark-to-market adjustments which were mainly due to updated actuarial assumptions on mortality rates; a charge of $0.06 per share for transaction-related and financing costs; and a charge of $0.02 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits.
On a reported basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.28 down just over 48% from the prior year quarter.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $3.42 up 7.2% from the prior year period.
This also excludes the items I just mentioned as well as the onetime benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement a gain on discontinued operations and charges for implementation costs.
On a reported basis full year EPS was $2.75.
RAI again improved adjusted operating margin.
For the fourth quarter margin was up by 1.2 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 36.6%.
And for the full year it was up 0.1 point at 36.7%.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds had another strong run in the fourth quarter with adjusted operating income increasing by almost 14% to $676 million.
And for the full year the company's adjusted operating income was up by more than 8% at $2.7 billion.
The company's adjusted operating margin continued to widen in the quarter increasing 4.4 percentage points to 40.5% and that brought the full year to 39.6%.
As Susan mentioned the decline in industry cigarette volumes continued to moderate.
R.J.
Reynolds' fourth quarter cigarette shipments declined 4.9% from the prior year quarter while industry volume was down about 2%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.5 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter down about 700 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.6 billion were down about 200 million.
At American Snuff fourth quarter adjusted operating income of $113 million was down 3.2% from the prior year quarter.
But for the full year it rose by almost 4% to $442 million.
The company's operating margin remained strong at 56.4% for the year.
As we predicted in our last call higher promotional support levels continued in the fourth quarter and because of the highly competitive moist snuff market American Snuff saw a 1% decline in volume.
Moist snuff industry volume was up about 1% in the quarter.
American Snuff's flagship Grizzly brand delivered volume growth of 3.5% for the year.
Now I'll turn to Santa Fe where higher pricing and volume drove the bottom line higher.
The company increased fourth quarter operating income by more than 24% to $90 million.
That brought full year operating income to $337 million which was up 20.5%.
Santa Fe's fourth quarter operating margin rose 2.6 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 51.7% bringing the full year to 51.2%.
Natural American Spirit's market share gain of 0.3% that Susan mentioned was on volume growth of 14%.
Now I'll turn to some other items before opening up the Q&amp;A session.
As we reported previously Reynolds American expanded its revolving credit facility from $1.3 billion to $2 billion in the quarter and the company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1 billion.
Our pension plans remain well funded on a PBO basis.
Although no additional funding is required this year I would note that we plan to add just over $100 million to the pension plans.
With our companies expected to continue their growth momentum this year RAI is issuing 2015 adjusted earnings guidance in the range of $3.65 to $3.80 per share.
I would note that this guidance excludes any impact from the completion of our proposed transaction but it does reflect continued investment on VUSE as well as initiatives to build the equity of our operating company's key brands.
Thank you all.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Hayes of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two from me.
Firstly on Pall Mall.
Obviously you mentioned the packaging relaunching the course [ph] but market share was still down 20 basis points I think.
I just wonder if you can talk about the timing of that launch and whether there was some disruption of any sort? And whether you're happy with the launch? Was there anything that you expect to improve on that relaunch into the first quarter? And then secondly for me on the smokeless category.
It looks like it's slowing pretty rapidly I guess from 4.5% -- 4% to 5% last year -- in '13 to 3% to 4% I think you said in the third quarter so category about 1% growth in the fourth.
I guess with the gasoline prices I always understood that was a category that did pretty well [indiscernible] of that relationship.
I'm just wondering whether you can talk about why that slowdown in the category is happening? Or again whether you feel that that's something which will pick up through 2015? First the question about Pall Mall.
We're very pleased with Pall Mall's performance at 9.4% market share.
We are very focused on balancing Pall Mall's market share and profitability and this is a very competitive environment.
But the packaging upgrade didn't cause disruption.
So we would continue to see Pall Mall playing that role in our value portfolio but we are actually very happy with that performance.
Secondly on the smokeless side I think there's been discussion about the slowdown in growth of the overall category and we're pleased with Grizzly's performance.
It's a very competitive environment in the smokeless arena.
Grizzly over the year picked up half a share point while it was basically flat quarter-over-quarter.
The slowdown in the sector there are some thoughts about that in the context of -- as you know there are about 8 million dippers and they -- about 5 million of those are dual users.
So in the fourth quarter did they switch to cigarettes? I think we'll have to see how this plays out.
We are confident that the category will continue to grow but we're not sure if it's going to be in the 2% or the 3% to 4% growth this year.
But again Grizzly's performed very well and we will continue to heavily compete in that space.
Research Division</strong> So just quickly coming back on the Pall Mall.
The timing of that packaging launch was that happening through the quarter say from the beginning of the quarter and is now done? Or was it a late initiative sort of later in the year and therefore may make an impact in the first quarter '15? We were shipping that in October.
So it should be pretty well through the pipeline and we'll continue to monitor that offtake.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the outlook for earnings growth's clearly incredibly robust for 2015 obvious benefit from the tobacco buyout expense.
But as I think about the magnitude of the range it's roughly comparable to the range you guys initially offered for 2014.
So I was just hoping you could comment a little bit on kind of the wide range given that you know you're going to get this benefit from the tobacco buyout expense? Vivien it's Tom.
We look at this every year and we like -- we kind of like the wider range.
It encompasses -- I mean it's early in the year.
We're concerned -- the competitive environment is as it has been very intense in all segments that we're operating in.
So we like the wider range to provide us flexibility.
LLC Research Division</strong> That seems perfectly reasonable.
And then on the Revo launch I understand it's kind of early days.
Where is that product getting shelf placement? And what brands would it be substituting in the stores that you're rolling it out in? Vivien this is Susan.
We are in the process of launching it and the specifics of exactly what shelf space exchange I'm not certain but we're encouraged by Revo.
I think we've done a lot of consumer testing.
We talked about it at Investor Day.
As consumers look for more innovative products and our focus on innovation and transforming the industry we believe that there will be interest in Revo as people understand vapor and they understand combustibles.
And Revo with the proprietary RJRT technology is somewhere in between all of that.
So we will keep you posted but it is too early.
It's -- we're 4 weeks into the shipping or something like that.
But we'll certainly keep you posted as it unfolds.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you if I could on if you look at the cigarette category which has improved pretty dramatically in the second half of the year do you have a good outlook you expect for 2015? Could we see this at least with the comps the first half of '15 be like the second half of '14 if you will? Chris I'll tell you.
We are still looking at it in this 3% or 4% decline range as we have in the past years.
You'll remember that we talked in '14 that part of that in the first 6 months could've simply been particularly convenience gas taking in lots of new vapor products.
And it was a restricted inventory investment as opposed to actual offtake.
And obviously the vapor space is continually evolving and we will continue to report on that as we see it.
But our opinion is that the underlying combustible decline will stay consistent.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question for you I guess really related to VUSE or -- and then all other division.
I'm just trying to get a better sense of like the degree of investment you expect there this year.
Do you expect it to be comparable to the investment you made in '14? Or is that unrealistic given you've already launched the product? Or do you've more products potentially in the hopper that could force you to invest equally heavily in the coming year? Chris it's Tom.
From a financial perspective it will not be as large as it was in 2014.
And we're -- probably really don't want to comment on launching innovative products in this space right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you -- the phasing of the new VUSE flavors is that happening now? Did that happen in the first quarter? Or is it that happened throughout the year? I'm just curious how quickly that can build.
We launched in December in Colorado and Utah and we are watching that very closely.
And then we will determine and certainly advise when we decide to extend that.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask more about the pricing and volume balance during the quarter.
Now obviously 8% pricing excluding the contract manufacturing is a very strong number so I don't want to -- not trying to nitpick on the number.
But we also saw volume declines accelerate slightly while the industry trend was going the other direction.
So how do you think about the balance between those 2 factors? And whether we're sort of in the optimal place when you're realizing 7% to 8% price mix but also trying to protect share on a couple of nonsupport brands and maintain the momentum of your growth brands? Matt I would say this all sort of varies quarter-to-quarter.
We are pleased with the way we are balancing market share growth on our drive brands investment in new innovation and profitability.
So I would say obviously the quota buyout rolling off in the fourth quarter was great but we feel like we are in a good mix.
And you can see from the guidance this year we are guiding from 7.1 to 11.1.
And so we continue to be confident that we can get that balance right while focusing on driving our premium brand growth on our focus brands.
Research Division</strong> And just one other question on RJR.
For the quarter again you had strong pricing-driven revenue growth which resulted in 15 -- close to 15% operating profit growth but the bottom line was still constrained I think similar to what one of your peers reported a week or 2 ago by a pretty large step-up in per pack costs year-on-year.
Can you just speak to that year-on-year cost dynamic? And whether that's just quarterly phasing or something we should expect to see continue going forward based on reinvestment initiatives you might have in place during the sort of post-expiration of the quota buyout? Matt we really look at this as timing fluctuation.
And I wouldn't project all of that forward on any meaningful basis.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question on your process with the FTC.
I guess I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on the possibility that the FTC does approve the deal with Lorillard but with some modifications.
I've heard several questions or concerns related to your EDLP program from retailers so wondering how important this option is for Newport? And how concerned you would be if Newport won't be allowed to be added to your EDLP program right away? Essentially would you be willing to move forward to deal with some restrictions? Just trying to get your sense of that.
Bonnie really I don't have much more to add than I said in my prepared remarks.
We are continuing to work with the FTC.
The process is not a transparent one.
We continue to be confident that it will close in the first half.
And how that will all unfold we will keep you posted when that -- when we know and it becomes public but I have no real other comment to make.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then I have a question on Santa Fe.
Obviously the brand continues to perform extremely well.
However a couple of other brands are more intensely targeting the super premium organic space.
So I just wanted to get your thoughts on how increased competition could impact Santa Fe? And what you're seeing in this category? And then given NAS's positioning how confident are you that the brand will continue to grow at double-digit rates? Thanks Bonnie.
It picked up 0.3 share point this year at 1.8% market share.
It's one of the top 10 brands in the U.S.
And we continue to see a lot of runway because as you know it's not really 1.8% market share anywhere.
It has very strong market share in growing urban markets and we continue to see that expanding.
As we said at Investor Day we're adding some sales force members to that team and we continue to see distribution and offtake growth.
And it grew in 49 out of 50 states last year.
So I really don't see that slowing down.
To your point that there's other competition in the space I think NAS is uniquely positioned.
I think that the packaging upgrade will help us continue that momentum and I continue to be confident.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe 1 final quick question.
I believe you conducted a clinical trial on vapor emission that was expected to be completed by December.
Has this study concluded? And then could you share some of the findings from that study with us? Bonnie I'm not in a position to discuss that.
And we will get some more information for you when that's available.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Back on Revo is national expansion sort of a foregone conclusion? Or what are you looking for in Wisconsin that would determine how you move ahead? Well this is -- we're going into Wisconsin to see how consumers react to this new branding.
And obviously as consumers are more aware of innovative products and more understanding of vapor versus combustibles we're looking to see how they respond to Revo.
And we will determine when that would continue to roll out as we watch that.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any consumer communication restrictions? And what kind of things are you doing to make people aware of the brand? Certainly it's important with a brand like Revo to generate trial because people have to see if they like this kind of technology.
And it smokes very different from a combustible and it smokes very different from an e-cig-alike vapor product.
So we -- obviously the restrictions if you will -- Revo falls under the combustible advertising restriction.
But we'll be using our consumer engagement force to explain the proposition to consumers and generate some trial.
Research Division</strong> And because it falls under combustible you're not also allowed to modify the product any either right? Is that -- it needs to stay the same? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on vapor you had said previously that you expect it to be profitable by 3Q of this year.
Is that still on track for that? Yes we believe it is.
Research Division</strong> And would that be profitable for the full year? Or just in the back half? Probably just in the back half.
I think Michael we watched this space evolve.
And we're looking at VUSE and we continue -- VUSE is the largest selling vapor e-cig-alike in convenience gas across the country.
And it's very important for us to continue to generate trial because our digital vapor technology truly is a point of difference.
And we are American-made as I said in my prepared remarks.
So generating trial in VUSE will give us the conversion and -- so we will market that to the right effect.
Research Division</strong> And some of your competitors have come out with products that are more vaporizer-like but with a closed tank.
And I know you've been outspoken about the risks of open tanks but would you pursue something with VUSE that might be a little more vaporizer-esque but with the same closed tank capability? I'm not going to talk about any future innovations but suffice it to say that it is clearly part of our strategy to transform the tobacco industry to become the vapor authority.
Our next question comes from James Bushnell of Exane.
Research Division</strong> I had 3 questions too which have been answered.
So the third one which was a smaller question was just to come back on all other line which in Q4 was again at a reasonably high level.
I just wonder if you could give us a flavor as to how much of that uptick year-on-year is investments in VUSE versus expense elsewhere? Would that be launched also for Revo Zonnic or other things that are going on? It's primarily VUSE.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had 1 quick sort of administrative question and that was just whether you had any borrowings outstanding under your revolver at quarter end? And then secondly Tom is as you guys are thinking about the funding for the Lorillard transaction do you have any updates there given where we are in terms of the regulatory process? And whether we should still expect $500 million in facility borrowings to help fund that split? Okay.
With respect to the at year end or quarter end we didn't -- we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
And with respect to the transaction we would expect when it closes that we would use a portion of the revolving credit facility to fund it.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Sachin Shah of Albert Fried.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to understand because you're in substantial compliance with FTC is it just kind of a waiting game that we're waiting for right now in regards...
I'm sorry Sachin you're fading out.
We can't hear your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes so -- can you hear me now? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just want to understand in regards to the FTC because you're in substantial compliance are you just waiting for them to get back to you? Is that where we kind of are? Well we continue to -- we are working with the FTC as I said to you the process is not transparent and so we continue to believe we will close in that -- in the first half of this year.
And of course we will be forthcoming as soon as we know something.
LLC Research Division</strong> So in regards to communicating even though you're in substantial compliance the clock sometimes -- if there is a clock 30 days or more that you haven't had that agreement or a timing agreement with them thus far and so you're in dialogue in the interim while that substantial compliance has been met? Sure we're in dialogue and the clock still ticking.
And we'll get back to you when we have more information.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 1 last question in regards to all of this.
I think when you reported your third quarter results the merger spread was double it -- what it was now little over $8 and now it's $4 just a little bit above $4 and the fact that it is still $4 still raises some uncertainty about that and just was curious to find out how you felt about that in light of the fact that you have all these things that you presented to the FTC and being in substantial compliance? Well I think Sachin what the spread is and how all that works is all about investor sentiment.
And as we've always discussed we're very pleased the shareholders had a resounding vote and we still have the next step of the FTC.
And obviously there are investors who are still betting for and against that.
But we continue to be confident and we will -- once the first half is past and we've confidently closed then we'll see how the investors feel about the stock price.
Our next question is a follow-up from David Hayes of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I know [indiscernible] before but I just wonder whether you can add any detail to the 4.9% market share sort of level in terms of the brands that you're selling to Imperial and then obviously the Doral brand impact of that.
I wonder if you can give us an update as to where that market share sits relative to that level today? And then secondly just on Revo 2 I just wonder whether you can update us on where you are with the potential launch of that with a partner? Again I think you said previously maybe BAT that wasn't actually firmed up.
I just wonder whether you can talk about that Revo 2 development in other markets? Is that a possibility for next year? Is that something that we can expect to see in the numbers in terms of the development of that product as well? David this is Tom.
I'll take the first part of that.
We're above the 4.9% that's in the agreement for Winston-Salem and Kool at this point.
And on the second question we are in continued dialogue with British American Tobacco to look at opportunities for commercialization and research and technology development and commercialization of those innovations.
So we will obviously keep you posted as we come to whatever agreements we make.
But at this stage certainly there are opportunities we do see international monetization of our innovative technology as a future revenue stream.
But there's nothing concrete in 2015 as we sit today.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> David had 2 very good questions which were just like mine so I'm all good.
I appreciate your time.
Thank you.
And at this time I'm not showing any further questions.
So I'd like to turn the call back to management for any further remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Now I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we will review Reynolds Americans results for the first quarter and our outlook for the full year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As you read in todays report Reynolds American got off to an excellent start this year with sharply higher earnings and operating margin in the first quarter.
I would like to highlight the main reason for these strong results.
First is the continued strong performance by our operating companies and continued momentum in their powerful key brands.
All of our reportable business segments again increased profits and operating margins and they remained focus on strategic initiatives to enhance their key brands in the competitive marketplace.
Our companys results also benefited from higher pricing across the board and the end of the federal tobacco quota buyout late last year.
In addition cigarette volumes performed better than the historical decline rate.
The decline in shipments continue to moderate and we believe this is largely driven by improved economic factors including lower gas prices as well as favorable comparison with the prior year quarter.
One other development that favorably impacted our bottom line in the first quarter was the one-time benefit from the 2003 NPM adjustment claims and Andrew will give you more details on that shortly.
In addition I would note R.J.
Reynolds announcement in February that the company together with Philip Morris and Lorillard have negotiated an agreement to result hundreds of Engle progeny lawsuits that are pending and not yet tried in the Florida federal court.
This resolution was a unique opportunity to essentially close out the federal Engle progeny docket although the agreement still has to be finalized.
As part of our transforming tobacco strategy our companies also made additional progress in positioning their innovative product platforms for long-term growth.
As you know RJR Vapor VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette completed its national expansion in the first quarter and the brand is now available in about 100 000 outlets mainly convenience and gas stores.
VUSE a highly distinctive and superior vapor product continues to perform well and the band retains the number one position in convenience gas outlet.
VUSE added four more styles in Colorado and Utah late last year and as we expected these are attracting the interest of adult smokers in vapors.
Good progress is also being made with the national expansion of Niconovums Zonnic NRT Gum and that brand will be in about 27 000 outlets primarily convenience gas by the end of this month.
In February R.J.
Reynolds expanded Revo heat-not-burn cigarettes in Wisconsin.
Revo which uses proprietary technology is in nearly all contracted retail outlets in that state.
Revo is getting strong support from point-of-sale signage and engagement with age verified adult tobacco consumers as well as direct mail and email for those adults who have registered to receive such information.
Revo is still in very early days and the focus remains on building brand awareness.
So more to come on this as we get more data.
So thats a quick update on our companies most recent achievement.
I would like to address one final item before we discuss our companies performance in more detail.
I know that you are all waiting for more news on our proposed acquisition of Lorillard but all I can say at this point is that the regulatory approval process is still underway and we remain confident that the transaction will close by the middle of this year.
So low lets turn to the discussion of our quarterly results at our operating companies.
R.J.
Reynolds had a very strong quarter with earnings and margins substantially higher on increased cigarette pricing and the favorable impact from the completion of the federal tobacco quota buyout.
As I referenced earlier the companys cigarette volume decline continue to moderate in the first quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share was down 0.5 percentage point from the prior year quarter at just over 26%.
R.J.
Reynolds growth brands Camel and Pall Mall reflected solid market performance and now make up about three quarters of the companys total cigarette market share.
Their combined first quarter share of 19.4% was in line with the prior year quarter.
Camels market share increased from the prior year quarter to 10.1% and Camel continues to enhance its brand equity with the expansion of Camel White to 21 Western states in late March.
This style available in mellow and menthol offers an inset filter and premium tobacco that provide adult smokers with the perfect draw and smooth taste.
Pall Mall the nations number one value brand continue to demonstrate solid performance in that category and first quarter market share of 9.3% was down only slightly.
Pall Mall is a longer lasting high quality product at an affordable price a true value proposition and the focus remains on building awareness and trials.
Now turning to American Snuff which also generated strong financial performance in the first quarter the moist snuff market continues to be highly competitive but the company increased its operating income by double digits and American Snuff operating margin remained very strong.
The companys overall moist snuff market share declined 0.2 percentage point to 34.5% and the market share for its flagship Grizzly brand was in line with the prior year quarter at 31.6%.
In late March Grizzly expanded its Dark Wintergreen style nationally a bold product offering that has a differentiated and richer flavor.
Grizzly has led the growing Wintergreen segment since 2008 and Grizzly Dark Wintergreen is expected to continue the brands momentum and further solidify its leadership position.
I think its fair to say that the star of the quarter was Santa Fe where both financial and marketplace performance was outstanding.
The company grew operating income by more than 40% and that of course was driven by higher pricing and volume.
Santa Fes super-premium brand Natural American Spirit continues to go from strength to strength and it increased first quarter market share by three-tenths of a percentage point to 1.8%.
To put that in perspective the NAS share increase was the biggest quarter-on-quarter increase in its history and the brand shipped 1 billion cigarettes in the first quarter.
Santa Fe is doing a really great job with Natural American Spirit its expanding consumer franchise and the appeal of the brands distinctive additive free tobacco style including those made with organic tobacco continue to deliver impressive results.
So thats a wrap of a very successful quarter and Im delighted with the progress our companies are making on all fronts.
So now Ill turn the call over the Andrew and welcome Andrew to your first earnings call.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
RAI began the year in strong form.
The quarter benefited from higher pricing and the completion of the federal tobacco-quota buyout and we increased adjusted EPS by almost 19.5% from the prior year quarter to $0.86.
These adjusted results exclude a one-time benefit of $0.08 per share from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim.
Pennsylvania and Missouri are no longer challenging the findings of non-diligence entered against them by the arbitration panel in connection with this claim.
So part of the potential recovery from these two states is now certain and can be estimated.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds expenses for the MSA were reduced by $70 million for the first quarter.
Our adjusted results also exclude a charge of $0.06 per share for transaction related and financing costs in connection with the proposed Lorillard acquisition $0.02 per share for tobacco related and other litigation and the charge of $0.13 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits including the proposed settlement for the federal cases.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.73 up 9% from the prior year quarter.
RAIs adjusted operating margin continues to strengthen coming in at 37.2% for the quarter.
Now Ill turn to our operating companys performance where Ill focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted result.
R.J.
Reynolds performed extremely well with adjusted operating income increasing by more than 16% to $645 million.
The company also increased adjusted operating margin by 4.6 percentage points to just over 40%.
As Susan said the companys cigarette volumes continue to moderate and were down 2.4% from the prior year quarter.
Industry volume was up about 0.5%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.5 billion units at the end of the first quarter down about 200 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.6 billion were down about 100 million.
Now Ill turn to American Snuff.
Higher pricing and volume benefitted first quarter operating income which increased 16.7% to $118 million.
The companys operating margin rose 3.8% to 58.9%.
In additional to remaining very competitive the moist-snuff industry is clearly seeing an impact from the shift by adult tobacco consumers between various tobacco and vapor products.
Industry volume was up just over 1% in the quarter and American Snuffs volume increased 0.5%.
As Susan said Santa Fe continued to build on its strength and delivered outstanding results in the first quarter.
The company increased operating income by nearly 42% to $92 million and operating margin grew by 5.6 percentage points to almost 54%.
These results were driven by the very strong performance of Natural American Spirit which delivered volume growth of more than 23%.
Now there are a couple of other items I want to mention before I open up the Q&amp;A session.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.6 billion and I also want to confirm that R.J.
Reynolds made its MSA payment of $1.4 billion in April which included $429 million that was paid into the NPM disputed funds account.
Lastly our outlook as you can see from todays report RAI and its operating companies had a great first quarter and we are reaffirming our full year adjusted earnings guidance in the range of $3.65 to $3.80 per share.
Please not that this guidance excludes any impact from our proposed transactions and we will reassess our guidance after the proposed transactions close.
Thank you all.
Now we will turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Owen Bennett from Nomura.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning guys and couple of questions please and firstly and obviously a very strong quarter in terms of cigarette industry volumes I was just wondering can you give any outlook for how you see industry volumes now trending for the rest of the year? And secondly you said previously you hope for the e-vapor business to become accretive by the second half.
Does this still stand? Its just the loss in the first quarter seemed it was a bit worse than what we had expected or is this just a case of much of the investment was front end loaded this year.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Owen.
Sure industry volumes were strong in the first quarter if you think about that and look back to last year when we saw what everybody was worried about was it was going away very quickly and we talked about the inventory dollars being spent on vapor and vapor launches in the c/gas space and that that was taking away from inventory dollars in cigarettes.
And I think that is proving to be true.
So as the year unfolds of course the volume will continue to be at this pace.
Weve always talked about a 3% to 4% decline sort of a long term measure.
Our guess is that this year it will be on the low end of that call it 283 3Q something like that we will continue to watch and see how that unfolds but it was a very strong first quarter in volume term.
The other thing I would say about that in the context of the consumer you know while there are technical inventory reasons we also saw good premium mix in the first quarter with lower gas prices and so we feel that that has also impacted the volume result.
When we think about vapor I think its important to say that it is as you look at the dynamics of the segment at the moment it looks like its kind of flattened out.
Now one of the reasons for that is we are laughing at again huge numbers of launches and of course there has been a lot of consumer trial and consumers are perhaps waiting for the next innovation and we are still looking to get brand awareness in trial on views.
Views just went really achieved national distribution in the first quarter of this year and so we certainly are spending to increase brand awareness in trial.
As you know we believe its a superior vapor product that delivers real satisfaction and therefore we continue to invest in that trial.
So certainly as you said in the first quarter it looks like we spent a fair amount of money and we did because we are really driving for trial and we would reiterate that in the medium term we certainly expect to have very strong margins and profitability on views whether that exactly occurs in the second half remains to be seen because this is still a very volatile and dynamic category.
Thanks Owen.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open please go ahead.
If you have your phone on mute can you un-mute your phone please.
Sorry about that.
Hey Nick.
Hey Andrew I was wondering if you can provide a little bit of context on legal cost just trying to get a sense of how much of your legal budget is being spent on Engle thats number one and then second for Susan if you can just give us some context around Santa Fe I mean is this the level of volume growth something you should be expecting for the rest of the year or is this a pipeline sale for the new packaging that was kind of part of the quarter any context around those two questions would be helpful.
Thank you.
Yeah thanks Nik.
This is Andrew.
Just a follow-up a significant portion of our legal budget at this point is being spent on Engle.
It is something that we obviously are looking at on a regular basis to see what does the effect of the proposed settlement on the federal side how does that play up for the rest of the year but a significant portion obviously we got a number of trial this year were expecting 30 to 45 trials and that is obviously taking up a great portion of the legal budget.
Nik this is Susan on Santa Fe I think it really was the star of the quarter.
When you look at that volume growth and that profitability growth we continue to see the momentum we saw in the second half last year.
If you - Santa Fe as we go through this year I think that the momentum will continue but there are harder comparison in the second half than we have in the first half.
Now having said that the biggest market share jump weve ever seen on a quarter over quarter basis you know 1.6 billion in the quarter in whats usually a relatively light quarter.
We are very enthusiastic about that and I think Santa Fe is benefitting obviously from us continuing to invest in the equity as well as the distribution of the brands and from the economics for the consumer in terms of the premium mix.
So we are obviously very keen on Natural American Spirit and we believe that it will continue to go from strength to strength.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
I just wanted a few question first if I could and to follow a bit on the industry volumes comments there before I think you said Andrew that inventories were down in the quarter I think you also mentioned at one point that this is a bit of an easier comp on the first quarter so Im not sure if you gave a number Susan if you did I missed it obviously we have some momentum carrying over from the second half of last year are we looking at industry volumes declining more like 3% sort of 4% like towards the lower end of your range or have you given a better estimate where you stuck for the year at this point.
Thanks Chris.
Yeah I did say that.
I did say that we believe that they will be at the lower end of that range of that 3% to 4% range so call it 3%.
And was there any there was an inventory adjustment it seems like in the quarter for the category overall for the industry and it was down year-over-year is that right? It certainly was down from the previous quarter end a year ago.
So that is basically how we are looking at it yes.
Got you.
Just one other question if I could on the cigarette business just the price gap between premium and discount brands has narrowed and economic conditions are in better shape and gas prices are lower and that kind of thing Im just curious you think that price gap can expand a bit and just what that would mean for Camel versus Pall Mall and your portfolio? I think you are right when you look at the economics of the category we have seen that gap narrow and weve seen a consumer who is feeling good at the c/gas store shall we say.
And how does that exactly plays out weve seen relatively stable pricing in the quarter weve seen good net price realization of course as the year unfolds eventually we will last the end of the quota buyout which is in the fourth quarter but I think it remains to be seen but its still a highly competitive marketplace and we are pleased with the result of both Pall Mall and Camel as well as of course Grizzly and NAS but I think that the sector is in a good place both with the consumer environment and with the volume if you will.
Okay just if I give one quick follow-up which will be the market share for the brands you are divesting to Imperial can you give that market share were those brands stand today they are above that threshold I assume? Yes.
They are above the threshold and I dont think we need to go through the market share specifically but they are above the described threshold.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about Santa Fe in terms of some of the drivers and I know you detailed some of the marketing and different things but was there anything unusual in the quarter? And how much is international driving that? Is there any geographic expansion involved? We have as we I think talked in Investor Day may be at Cagney as well.
We have added some sales force to Santa Fe and I think that the brand is certainly benefiting from that.
We also of course launched the updated packaging in the fourth quarter and I think that is doing very well.
And again the general consumer environment is working well for premium.
I think the equity of NAS and its absolutely spot on trend in terms of consumers looking for products generally speaking that have our additive-free and that also of course we can have some organic style but I think NAS in its super premium format will continue to grow.
Just for your information there are no international numbers in that reported segment.
Those are in other? Yes.
Okay now thats helpful.
Thanks.
And as far as the consumer environment being favorable are you seeing greater trial and what kind of repeat and adoption are you getting out of that? Is this a deeper penetration? And how much of that where you are concentrated certainly in very high shares in some cities how much of that is spreading into newer areas where its typically not been as well developed? We continue to see progress on NAS on a national basis.
I think the sound by was that it grew in 49 of 50 states or something.
So we are - I believe that it is - the proposition is continuing to resonate the distribution continues to get stronger with greater style availability and that we will continue to see that moment.
And just in terms of - even if it is in the other segment how is the brand progressing outside the U.S.
or is there any investment there or any kind of push thats driving some of those numbers as well? We are pleased with the way its performing internationally.
I mean as you know this is very small piece of our business but certainly from a brand proposition the resonance and the response we are very pleased.
No thats great.
Thanks.
And then just one other one on Revo its certainly very early there.
What kind of things are you looking for as your guide to what would trigger a broader expansion there and how is it looking like its progressing against any of those benchmarks? Well as I said in the prepared remarks youre absolutely right it is very early days and we talked about this also I think at our investor presentation where this proprietary heat-not-burn technology and the consumers understanding of that seeing it between vapor and combustibles is very important.
And so what were really looking at is proposition understanding.
And if people understand the proposition and they try do they convert? And so its going to take some time to get that data.
So we are pleased so far that the brand awareness is building and that then the trial will build.
And then of course the trigger is always is do they convert and is there enough repeat purchase to justify a business expansion.
So we will continue to watch that but we are certainly encouraged with the distribution penetration as I mentioned and we will keep you posted.
And when you say awareness are you measuring an understanding of the proposition or is it more just that they have seen a point theyve heard of the brand how deep is that awareness measure and obviously its not a super exact science but are you trying to get at - when you say awareness does that get it some of the understanding of what the proposition is? Yes it really has to and particularly in a unique product such as Revo because being aware of it but not understanding what does heat-not-burn mean and how - what are their expectations in terms of how the product will perform youve got to have proposition awareness to be able to convert people from trial to conversion and loyalty.
So yes it is a deeper measure and as I said as this - as we get more clarity we will certainly share that with you.
Alright thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Judy.
Hi Judy.
So may be a question about the more smokeless tobacco category just in terms of the positive economic impact that we are seeing from a consumer perspective on the cigarettes.
Obviously that doesnt seem to be impacting the smokeless tobacco category.
So is there number one an element smokeless tobacco consumers that may have traded or cigarette consumers that may have traded down to smokeless in a more difficult economic environment and they are trading up to the cigarette category? Where are you seeing more of the volume from smokeless tobacco going as you think about the broader tobacco categories? Thanks Judy and I think you are spot on.
Remember that there are 9 million smokeless users and 5 million of those are dual users.
And so I think there are several factors impacting this moist category.
One certainly is your hypothesis that if the consumers are feeling better and they have a choice between cigarettes and moist and they want to have a cigarette that is happening.
Second of all is of course moist users seem to be the most promiscuous if you will across the new alternative.
So we see a lot of trial in vapor among moist users.
Weve always seen the trials news a lot of that came from our moist users.
And so they are more experimental and so correspondingly we see I think it was 1% or so growth in that moist category in the first quarter.
We are very pleased with Grizzlys performance strong financial performance in a very competitive environment.
The share year-over-year relatively flat but we continue to lead the Wintergreen category and our pouch which is also the fastest growing category is also the fastest growing.
So I think we will see where those moist users land over time but we are pleased with Grizzlys participation.
Okay.
And then Andrew just a couple of I guess P&amp;L questions first on the NPM adjustment claims I just want to understand I guess make sure that they understand correctly so youve got the $70 million that you backed out of - in terms of getting to your adjusted results.
Thats right.
If a look at your MSA payment in the P&amp;L it was down about 14% or so year-over-year.
So can you just give us the clarification of why it was down so much on a year-over-year basis just from the MSA settlement expense perspective? Yeah.
So Judy youre talking about adjusted or you talking about the GAAP basis? I guess - is that where its a GAAP  the $70 million came out of just in terms of - so if Im just looking at the MSA settlement.
Yeah.
So $70 million was adjusted out that related to the Missouri and Pennsylvania claims that are now certain and can be estimated so we did make that adjustment and that is obviously benefited.
Okay.
So the $394 million of settlement expenses in your supplemental information is inclusive of the $70 million benefit? Yeah.
Thats right.
Okay sorry just a clarification okay.
And then the other expense line you had is $70 million of expense in the quarter? We had income $70 million of income yes.
Yeah.
So can you just tell us what that was because I know last year it looked like that was pretty minimal? Yeah thats generally related to some foreign exchange exposure that we have.
I think we are one of the few companies with positive FX albeit small.
Thats great to hear okay.
So that was more of a - I guess maybe a one-time kind of a benefit that we shouldnt necessarily look forward to I guess depending on the FX translation? Okay.
Okay I think thats clear.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone and welcome Andrew.
Good morning Matt.
Thanks.
Just a couple of questions and some of these you may not be able to address but just to see what we can add.
First you are generating very strong operating profit growth at RJR at the moment and obviously the stronger volumes on your growth brands.
But presumably the high levels of pricing realization are spread across the portfolio.
And you may not be able to decompose this but is this the case for the profit growth is disproportionately skewed to the growth brands or is it more evenly spread across the RJR portfolio? And if so does that result in a slightly higher contribution margin for the divested brands once the transaction closes? Matt I think I am not going to bisect the profit growth across the brand portfolio.
We are very pleased with the profit growth.
We have a 40% margin at RJRT and we are confident in the way that this is balanced.
So thats it.
Okay.
Thanks Susan.
And could you talk a little bit more just about the Engel settlement on the federal cases and what you see is the benefits of that? And I definitely understand the arguments in favor of foreclosing the tail risks associated with those and the favorability on legal expenses.
But do you think there is an inherent risk to settling in such a high-profile class of litigation? Matt I think as weve said in our releases we feel that putting behind us these hundreds of cases on the federal docket is the best result.
And while the settlement isnt finalized it makes sense for us from a legal expense perspective and we dont believe it will have negative impact on our ability to try the state cases.
So we have done a lot of evaluation of this settlement and believe its the best way forward.
Okay.
And then lastly just on guidance and the competitive environment I know Im probably on some level there is a desire to wait until the potential closure of the transaction to revisit guidance.
But in prior quarters youve talked about your guidance range accounting for some degree of competitive uncertainty going forward.
I guess my question is after several quarters of very strong pricing it doesnt seem to have slowed that materially.
Do you think the level of competitive uncertainty in the cigarette category has declined or has it taken a step back in a way that might persist for the foreseeable future? I think the competitiveness of the category is very strong and everybody is executing against their strategy.
As it relates to our guidance of course we will look at revising our guidance upon the closure of the transaction.
So traditionally we have looked at our guidance as the year is unfolded and tightened that range and we would certainly expect to do that if for some reason that the transaction doesnt conclude.
But as I said we remain confident.
Okay.
Thanks and congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bonnie.
Good morning.
My first question is on your margin but just asking a little bit differently your expansion of 4.6% was huge.
So could you drill down on the drivers behind this to help us understand how much of this is driven from higher pricing and favorable mix shift versus your lower costs? And then could you also quantify your net price realization? I am not sure if you did that yet? Yeah Bonnie.
I think - this is Andrew I think as we look at this obviously net price realization was a key driver of this.
We did see some growth of 5.9% at RJRT on net price realization.
The other driver obviously on the cost side that you are seeing is the tobacco quota buyout ending last September.
So that obviously played a significant role in the cost coming down as well.
Okay.
And its really those two drivers that are - along with the volume component that are driving this.
Okay and then a question on Camel.
Susan you mentioned the lower gas prices are certainly helping and if I am - and Im also hearing this from a lot of the retailers which is leading to up-trading.
So was this one of the key drivers behind your Camels strong performance? And then do you believe you can retain Camels strong volume momentum once gas prices go back up? Well I think Camel as we continue to invest in new styles like Camel White and in the equity behind the brand the Camels momentum which weve really seen over the last several years and the momentum f capsule - that obviously if people are trading up and they are satisfied and become loyal to the brand that we would be able to continue that.
And of course gas price is a very real economic change for our consumers but the general economy also has an impact.
So if gas prices go up the general economy also raises and it affect wages then that keeps our consumer in a good place.
So we will continue to watch this but of course it was a very favorable quarter.
Absolutely.
And then just my final question is on vapor.
Although the broad vapor market is still growing quite a bit the growth seems to have moderated and a couple of concerns I have include one the performance of existing products in the market still isnt strong enough for greater conversion from combustible cigs.
And then secondly there is an increasing perception that e-cigs and vapor may not be as safe as originally assumed.
So I was hoping to hear your thoughts on both of these topics and what your strategy is to address them.
Thank you.
Yeah as I said I think weve all to seen  and I think your report on that was absolutely right that we are seeing flattening in the space of course there is continued growth of the tanks and the mods and the liquids and how does that affect the ciga light market and its still very very dynamic.
What we do know is there has been tremendous trial of vapor across cigarette smokers and the conversion has not been as high as we would have liked to see and yet there is continued use.
And so what that would say to us is that people arent finding the complete satisfaction either from a convenient or from a satisfaction prospective in the vapor space as of today.
Now we still believe there is a lot of upside for VUSE because we do know when we get that into the hands of cigarette smokers or people who have already moved to they think that it is satisfying.
So I think what we would expect to see is there will be more trial and we will continue to drive trial on VUSE specifically but then there are consumers who are waiting for something that isnt out there yet.
They are looking for perhaps satisfaction and convenience thats not available as they know it today.
So I think that also there is an impact of your second point which is the contradictory information in the media about the relative less harm of e-cigarettes.
And I believe that conversion to e-cigarettes has the potential to be good for public health and I believe thats still what the data implied.
But there is a lot of contradictory arguments and this is making consumers question whether or not they should be in the vapor category.
So I think that it is very important that we continue to see public entities and lawmakers provide consumers with accurate information on the potential for harm reduction across the continuum and we continue to be proponents of that.
So I think we are just in the timeframe when everything is scrambling but hopefully there will be more clarity and there will be more science and more people who have the capacity and the credibility to talk about that science.
Yes good point.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sachin Shah from Albert Fried.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Happy Friday.
Good morning and to you.
Just curious in the last two three weeks weve seen several positive reports on the deal kind of ranging from FTC mulling a settlement with you guys to allow the deal to  the FTC Bureau of Economics as well as the Head of the Bureau of Competition Director Feinstein basically in favor of the transaction.
So I guess the question is just wanted to find out if those reports were accurate? And also it just seems that the question is more of when they will approve the deal versus kind of if they approve the deal at this point is that kind of a fare assessment? I think its obviously always interesting to see the media.
I learned a lot from the MLex report myself but thats  anyway certainly there has been a lot of speculation.
As I said in my prepared remarks I continue to remain confident that we will close in the first half.
Many of you will realize actually that this earnings call is earlier than we usually go and of course that enables us to have the most flexibility.
Should the transaction be agreed and should we want to prepare to close obviously it gives us ultimate flexibility for financing.
So I think obviously you will hear when we do but we continue to be confident.
Okay.
Just one last point.
I think you guys stated and maybe this is just a little semantics but you are expecting the deal to close by the mid-year is that May June July versus the first half which is basically the end of June is there anything to read from that I mean ? No this is not a tricky question.
I would say that the first half is by June 30.
Okay perfect.
Thank you Cameron.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Cowen and Company.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
So my first question have to do with MST pricing which was incredibly robust is there anything to call out there that was kind of one-time in nature in the quarter? I would say no Vivien.
You are laughing the first quarter last year and actually probably the competitiveness and the promotion in that market continue to accelerate through last year.
So I would say it was very strong were very happy with Grizzlys performance but I would call out nothing specific.
Yeah Vivien if you remember we had the launch last year of the Wide Cut Wintergreen and obviously there was promotional activity that went along with that.
We did not have that activity in first quarter.
Our launch in this quarter was actually at the end of March so there was some timing differences.
But overall first half of the year we are going to have very similar dynamics as Susan says.
Understood.
Thats helpful.
In terms of the state excise tax environment can you offer an update on that and what your expectations are for a full year as ET increases? Yeah.
I mean its still early.
As you know most of these people go home around the summertime.
We think weve had some good results so far but we are looking at less than $0.10 and that continues to be our marker and obviously as these states go home we will be able to update.
Still early early time.
Yeah its still April.
Thats great.
It sounds pretty accommodative.
My last question has to do with the TPSAC meeting on modified risk tobacco products and whether you could comment at all on kind of how you view the agency looking at MRTPs after youve kind of had an opportunity to see them review one of your competitors proposals? You know Vivien its very hard for me to make any commentary on the TPSAC and what they may or may not do and what they will review will consider I think obviously its clearly in the agencys purview to look at any of these products.
And we continue to want the agency to publicly address the risk continuum.
And so if this contributes to that in my opinion that would be a good thing.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I had just a quick follow-up question actually two if I could easy ones.
Just ask Andrew with the MSA benefit you got in the quarter is there an ongoing benefit from Missouri and Pennsylvania that will flow through your earnings while you are recognizing the incoming earnings? No there is not.
This is solely related to the 2003 arbitration.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just one other quick one which would be the all other division the revenue was down sequentially from last quarter and just with VUSE having hit its peak if you will in terms of outlets I just was surprised by that is there anything unique going on in that division? Theres a lot of little things in there but just with VUSE growing the way it is I just was surprised for that being down sequentially in revenue.
Any thoughts or commentary on that would be great.
Yeah there is nothing really unique going on there.
I think some of that is just related to the roll-out and pipeline associated with the VUSEs expansion.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Im showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Morris Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for todays conference Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today well review Reynolds Americans results for the second quarter and first half and our revised outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by Federal Securities Laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As our report today makes clear we accomplished a great deal during the second quarter making further progress in our continuing transformation journey.
In mid-June of course we successfully completed RAIs purchase of Lorillard and the related divesture to ITG Brands and I am pleased to say that the integration of the Newport brand is going very well our employees have done a fantastic job in managing the initial transition.
In fact RAI had an excellent quarter reporting substantially higher earnings and operating margin and that wrapped up a very successful first half.
These results reflected strong financial performance at all of our operating companies and continued momentum behind their distinctive brands.
Of course I would note that given the timing of the closing in mid-June second quarter results versus last year or not directly comparable.
So it was a strong second quarter and first half marked by higher pricing across the board and strong volumes.
And now were poised for new growth following the acquisition.
As we settle along the addition of the Newport brand will give R.J.
Reynolds increased scale and improved operational efficiencies as well as higher sales volume resulting from the complementary nature of Newport and the rest of R.J.
Reynolds cigarette portfolio.
The result will be a significantly more profitable business that will continue to reward shareholders and fuel the continued research development and innovation that our companies need for long-term sustainability in a changing environment.
Our transition is still far from complete and here I would remind you that the manufacturing of Newport will continue under a reciprocal agreement until production is fully transferred to the Tobaccoville manufacturing facility later next year.
A good deal of work remains to be done but we have a great track record and its executing these kinds of combinations and I am confident that the process will continue to run smoothly.
The second quarter strong business performance has reinforced our confidence in the continuing strength of our operating company.
So we are making several important announcements this morning.
We are increasing our quarterly cash dividend by 7.5%.
This is our 12 dividend increase since RAI was formed in 2004.
We are also implementing a two-for-one stock split which will be our third stock split since 2004.
In addition we have increased our adjusted earnings growth projections for the year to a range of 11% to 17% over last years adjusted results.
That compares with our previous 2015 guidance of 6.7% to 11% growth.
I think you will agree that these actions clearly demonstrate a high level of conviction for our businesses as well as our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
And Andrew will be giving you some more details shortly.
Before I move on to discuss our operating performance I'd like to give you a quick update on our progress with other key aspects of our transforming tobacco strategy.
I am pleased to report that RJR Vapor VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette continue to perform well in the second quarter.
VUSE which uses digital technology to deliver a superior vaping experience has been a consistent category leader.
VUSE is now in national distribution in more than a 100 000 retail outlets and has solidified its position as the top selling electronic cigarette in the C-Store channel.
VUSEs success is based not just on its strong and distinctive product qualities.
The brand also offers retailers best in class support with high-impact national and local marketing campaigns.
We continue to see great promise in the vapor category and we will continue to innovate and invest to keep VUSEs as the leading most advanced product in the marketplace.
000 outlets.
Zonnic is the leading NRT in the convenience gas channel and we expect its phase expansion to continue into next year.
Also as you know R.J.
Reynolds expanded Revo heat-not-burn cigarettes into Wisconsin in February to gain learning on consumer interest in heat-not-burn products.
Revo has seen consumer interest and trial but actual adoption rates of the product have not met our expectation.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds has decided to discontinue marketing support for Revo in Wisconsin.
However we do remain optimistic about the long-term potential for heat-not-burn and we continue to work to improve this technology.
So thats a quick review of the quarter's main headlines.
Before I turn to discussion of the results at our operating companies.
I would just note here that we have refreshed our corporate branding and redesigned our website to reflect the new brand portfolio and there will be more news on that in early August.
I also note that weve changed the method of measuring our operating companies cigarette and moist-snuff retail market share to more accurately reflect marketplace performance across all channels.
While absolute retail market share levels may differ from previously reported data the overall trend are not materially different.
Now lets start the discussion with traditional cigarettes which we refer to as combustibles.
Total RAI operating companies domestic cigarette volume increased 5.6% in the second quarter and 2.4% for the first six months of 2015.
This compares to cigarette industry gains of 1.9% and 1.2% during the same period.
However on an inventory adjusted basis industry cigarette volumes were down slightly from both periods.
Total RAI operating companies domestic retail market share increased two-tenth of a percentage point to 33.6% in the second quarter and one-tenth of percentage point to 33.8% for the first half of 2015.
R.J.
Reynolds turned in another strong quarter supported by higher cigarette pricing and the completion of the federal tobacco-quota buyout.
In addition the companys cigarette shipments increased in the second quarter benefiting from the addition of two weeks of Newport.
R.J.
Reynolds cigarette volumes therefore increased by almost 4.5%.
I also need to note that R.J.
Reynolds retail market share is presented on a pro forma basis which reflects share information from the company's new brand portfolio following the Lorillard acquisition and the related divestiture.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette retail market share was down slightly from the prior year quarter at 31.8%.
R.J.
Reynolds new portfolio of growth brands Newport Camel and Pall Mall performed well in the second quarter and now make up more than 90% of the companys total cigarette market share.
Their combined second quarter share was 29.2% and that was up two-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
Newport continue to advance in the second quarter we share of retail shipments increasing four-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 13.2%.
Newports gains were driven by its strength in menthol and R.J.
Reynolds strategy going forward will be to energize and reinforce this powerful brand.
Camel also continue to benefit from its menthol styles that use capsule technology and the brands total cigarette retail market share was in line with the prior year quarter at 8.2%.
R.J.
Reynolds Pall Mall value brand is playing an essential role in the company's portfolio strategy by providing the right balance between market share and profitability.
As a result Pall Mall second quarter retail market share of 7.8% was down three-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
This true value proposition is expected to benefit from additional brand equity building efforts going forward resulting in increased trial and conversion.
At Santa Fe performance continues to exceed even our own high expectations.
The company increased second quarter operating income by almost 50% and reported a significant quarterly jump in operating margin.
The Santa Fe team is really executing wonderfully and of course the Natural American Spirit brand is the driving force.
This undiscounted super-premium brand ended the quarter with the retail market share of 1.8% on volume growth of just over 25%.
Natural American Spirit has a loyal and growing franchise and the brand strength is based on its distinctive additive free tobacco style including those made with organic tobacco.
Now turning to moist-snuff an American snuff strong performance.
Higher pricing and volume came through for the company in the second quarter and operating income again grew by double-digits.
Moist-snuff industry volumes continue to be impacted by consumer shift between various tobacco products and the industry remains very competitive.
Even so American snuff second quarter moist-snuff volume increased by 6% almost double the moist industry volume growth.
The company's moist-snuff retail market share increased 1.1 percentage points to 33.8% in the second quarter.
American snuffs flagship brand Grizzly performed very well in the second quarter with its retail market share increasing 1.3 percentage points to 31.1% and this was on volume growth of just over 7%.
Grizzlys momentum is being driven by its popular pouch style which is the fastest-growing style of moist-snuff and represents about 18% of the total categories.
The brands Dark Wintergreen style which was expanded nationally in March is also performing well and contributing to Grizzly's growth.
So as you can see it's been a really terrific quarter for our company.
And as I said earlier there's a lot of work still to be done with the integration of Newports but this kind of performance both very well for the rest of the year and beyond.
And now Ill turn the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
RAI had a stellar second quarter and first half over and above our completion of the acquisition of Lorillard and the related divesture.
RAI increased second quarter adjusted EPS by 14.6% from the prior year quarter to $1.02 supported by higher pricing across the board as well as the benefit from the completion of federal tobacco-quota buyout in 2014.
I would note that the completion of the Lorillard acquisition did not affect our adjusted EPS in the second quarter.
As a reminder our shares outstanding increased by 183 million to 715 million shares post close.
These adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.09 per share for transaction related and financing costs a charge of $0.12 per share were integration and implementation costs and the gain of $2.57 per share for the divesture.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was $3.38 up more than 267% from the prior year quarter driven by the gain on the divesture to ITG Brands.
First half adjusted EPS was $1.88 which was up 17.5% from the prior year period.
These adjusted results exclude the previously mentioned items as well as the benefit of $0.08 per share from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim a charge of $0.13 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits and a charge of $0.02 per share for tobacco related and other litigation.
On a reported basis first half EPS was $4.20 up over 164% driven by the gain on the divesture to ITG Brands.
RAIs adjusted operating margin also came in very strong again increasing 4.7 percentage points to 42.1% for the quarter.
Now Ill turn to our operating companys performance where Ill focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds performed very well reflecting about two weeks of Newports results.
The companys second quarter adjusted operating income increased by more than 19% to $832 million.
That brought first half adjusted operating income to $1.5 billion.
In the companys second quarter adjusted operating margin rose by 4.2 percentage points to 44.4%.
With the moderation in cigarette industry volume declines in the first half of this year the companys second quarter cigarette volumes were up 4.4% from the prior year quarter.
This compares to cigarette industry volumes which were up 1.9%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 7.6 billion units at the end of the second quarter up about 1.6 billion from the prior year quarter.
While R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 2.4 billion were up about 800 million reflecting the impact of additional Newport inventory resulting from the acquisition.
When adjusting of these wholesale inventory changes cigarette industry volumes declined approximately eight-tenths of a percentage point in the second quarter.
Santa Fe another incredible job in the quarter driving operating income up by 48.9% to $125 million and that brought its first half to $217 million the companys second quarter operating margin jump by 7.6 percentage points to 57.2%.
Now Ill turn to American Snuff.
The company benefited from higher volume in addition to higher pricing and the second quarter operating income increased almost 18% to $130 million that brought first half operating income to $248 million.
The company's operating margin rose 3.1 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 59.4%.
Before I open up the Q&amp;A session Id like to cover some other financial items.
Earlier this month RAI successfully concluded the private offers to exchange the outstanding senior notes originally issued by Lorillard for newly issued notes of RAI.
Together with our successful bond offering related to the acquisition itself the companys long-term debt now stands at $17.6 billion.
Our debt portfolio carries an average interest rate of 4.5% in an average maturity of 12.4 years.
I do want to emphasize here that our near-term focus is to deleverage as efficiently and quickly as possible while maintaining appropriate financial flexibility.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $4 billion and that reflects the $1.4 billion MSA payment in April.
Finally Id like to add some details to the important announcements that we made this morning.
RAIs board approved the two-for-one stock split which will be payable on August 31 to shareholders of record on August 17.
And the 7.5% dividend increase will bring our annualized split adjusted dividend to $1.44 or $0.36 on a quarterly basis.
This reflects our commitment to our 75% dividend payout ratio following the Lorillard acquisition.
Now that weve completed our acquisition of Lorillard along with a very successful first half RAI is increasing its full-year adjusted earnings guidance to a range of $1.90 to $2 per share.
This of course reflects the pending stock split.
We expect to narrow this 2015 guidance range when we report third quarter results as we gain more insight into the dynamics of the new product portfolio any potential impacts to the industry's competitive environment and the phase of our anticipated cost synergies.
Please note that this adjusted earnings guidance excludes all of the items I mentioned at the beginning of my discussion.
Thank you.
Now well turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone and congratulations on the quarter.
Good morning Matt.
Thank you.
Thanks.
So first just two question.
This maybe a topic for Friday but Andrew could you talk a bit about how you are thinking about the pacing of synergy realization whether you have any initial targets you can share on what might be achievable as were thinking about 2015 and what are some of the early milestones on the integration that we should be looking for that would allow you to accelerate the cost savings? Yes I think as we look at this nothing is really change in terms of our outlook on the synergies.
We still anticipate $800 million for the cost synergies we think $300 million of that will come over the next 18 months.
In terms of the timeframe there Matt nothing has changed we certainly will have a better view I think by the end of the third quarter and whether that 18 months is still a reasonable timeframe or whether that's something we can accelerate forward.
So the $800 million is still the number we are working off of it at this time and as far as the anticipated benefits as weve said we will be accretive in the first full 12 months and then were looking at double-digit accretion in the second full-year.
Okay.
Great thanks Andrew.
And then I wanted to ask just for your assessment of the performance for Susan I guess the performance of Newport across its various styles.
How you would characterize the brands momentum right now across both its menthol styles and the red and gold variance and just any initial thoughts on how you might approach those line extensions differently? As you know Matt I mean we really haven't headed in the house that long but clearly the momentum is primarily driven by its strength in menthol.
And so well evaluate the red and the gold styles they certainly add to the overall market share of Newport which has picked up four-tenths year-over-year but we will look to energize and reinforce Newport and be focused really on the menthol portfolio.
Okay great.
Thank you both.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Michael.
You mentioned change - or I guess you mentioned some push on for trial and conversion on Pall Mall is there any change in your approach there? And can you talk a little bit about how it might be different versus what youve done with the brand in the past? Really I think we talked about Pall Mall which truly has this longer-lasting benefit.
It has more tobacco it has more puffs than any other value brand and equal are more than actually other premium products.
So the big issue with Pall Mall is really awareness of the proposition.
And weve continued to grow that awareness as obviously weve grown the brand but there is still enormous opportunity and certainly when we do research amongst consumers if they knew about that proposition they would choose Pall Mall.
And so we will do some investment as we have done but we will do some investment to increase that proposition awareness.
The other thing you need to think about because Pall Mall did lose some market share year-over-year we were also focused on ensuring that Winston-Salem in KOOL were met the asset purchase agreement arrangement and so we were spending to make sure that those market shares came through.
And of course that did in effect we pulled back a little bit on Pall Mall and so we are confident that Pall Mall will continue to play its very important role in our portfolio and we will balance profitability and market share.
Okay thats helpful.
Yes thank you.
And then you also mentioned on capital allocation the focus on deleveraging but your near-term maturities are relatively limited is there going to be a focus on prepayment of some of those debts or is it just in terms of building your cash balance or EBITDA in terms of net debt to EBITDA metric.
How are you thinking about that? It certainly will be trying to grow our business that's certainly is a component but we will be looking to pay down our debt as it matures over the next several years.
But not necessarily ahead of that in terms of the maturity schedule.
At this point not necessarily.
And so then is there I mean I know this is a bit premature but is it possible buyback skip back on the radar maybe in a year or year and a half? Michael what I would say on that is were focused on deleveraging when we get to that one and a half to two and a half range thats when were going to revisit buybacks thats when we revisit our dividend policy and sort to look at all of those sorts of things and how best you to return value to shareholder.
So really our focus short-term is to get back into that range of one and a half to two and a half and then well revisit some of those things? And then just lastly on that the dividend obviously is a part of that but youve said you want to get to the 75% payout and it looks like youve got some headroom there.
If you have a line to say early next year and the dust is settled on some of the moving parts of the deal is it possible you could have move on the dividend.
I know its up to the board but thats not necessarily just a year away is that a fair way to - is that a fair assumption to make? I think that is a fair assumption I think were obviously committed to the 75% payout and thats something that were going to be looking at on a regular basis to make sure we can deliver on that.
And Michael to be fair we do recognize that the range that we're providing today while its a 11% to 17% is a wide range and that is why we said that as we get into the end of the third quarter we should be able to tighten that and obviously well have a clear perspective on where it's going in 2016.
Right.
And then 11% to 17% is also above the 7.5%.
So it seems like there is definitely some room for maneuvering there right? Yes.
Okay.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
Good morning.
So industry volumes continue to impress quite nicely even on an inventory adjusted basis.
So Susan I was hoping to hear your updated thoughts on your outlook for the industry in any incremental insights on what's driving this change in consumer behavior please? I'm sure as you noted industry volumes are up 1.9% but on an inventory adjusted basis theyre down about eight-tenths of a percentage point.
So as we think back to 2014 when we saw in the first half lots of inventory dollars going into vapor.
We think that of course that has ended and now weve left those six months the industry has performed very well.
And we expect I think as the year unfolds that the volume will decline year-over-year around 2%.
And well just have to see how that unfolds in this third and fourth quarter.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
My second question have to do with the Camel brand roughly holding share.
But the share gains have decelerated a bit as I look at kind of the quarterly progress accounting for the change in your share presentation.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the competitive dynamics that may be impacting Camel? Yes I mean we were happy with Camel volume up 3.5% and as you mentioned the change in the share metrics you know obviously impacted the year-over-year compare.
But that's all in there on a pro forma basis.
So Camel has continued to do very well.
We are very happy with the menthol style performing well and you know I did mention before of course there is always a little bit of impact when we were focusing on Winston and KOOL and so that can touch everybody a little bit.
But now those brands have been divested and Camel has some exciting programs in the second half.
So we are continued to be confident on Camels opportunity.
Thats great thank you.
My last question for Andrew please the margin expansion that Santa Fe delivered clearly exceptional? Can you give us a framework for thinking about margin progression for that business in the back half for the year? Yes I think you know the biggest element here Vivien is obviously well be lapping the tobacco-quota buyout in fourth quarter.
So there will be a bit of an adjustment there but generally what were looking at is volume and pricing for Santa Fe and thats really driving everything.
So well obviously have a pullback based on the lapping of the tobacco-quota buyout but overall that's pretty much the math behind it.
Vivien the other thing I thought I'd add you asked me a little bit about consumers in the context of this volume you know we did see the moist industry was up about 3% in this quarter.
But we continue to see a lot of consumers trying different kinds of products particularly moist consumers very interested in vapor interested in other tobacco product types.
And of course as we know many moist users also smoke cigarettes.
And we have seen you know continuation of gas prices have been good we hear C-store traffic is good.
And so there's been a resulting benefit in premium mix as well as in overall consumption.
Terrific thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Owen.
Good morning.
And just quick on e-vapor.
I was just wondering if you could comment on the e-vapor performance it looks like it could have become profitable in the quarter based on the all of the segment.
I was just wondering is this more driven by investment being pulled but not all top line momentum? Thank you.
Thanks Owen.
I would describe the vapor segment and there has been a lot written about it is relatively stable you know VUSE continues to be the number one is E-Cigarette in gas convenience and vapor is probably 5 or 5 plus percent of total tobacco today when you add in all the vap shops and all forms of vapor.
Having said that in terms of our financials on VUSE we are lapping the national rollout and of course the expense in this quarter - it is certainly much lower than the same period last year.
We will continue to invest in VUSE and we will make appropriate investments as we work to continue to add innovation to that category.
Okay thank you.
So if you think I mean is there any timeframe on when it will become more consistently profitable I guess? There is not really a specific timeframe we are happy with its contribution and as I said we will continue to innovate in this space to offer consumers choice.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning Nik.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
First I just want to make sure to get the pricing math right.
So were looking at about 6%-ish in terms of net price realization in the cigarette business and that's accounted for Newport coming into but the divested brands coming out.
So I guess the question is the divested brands going out that they have similar level of pricing as Newport.
Thats the first question just so I can get that right.
And then the second question is really on the regulatory side so the [indiscernible] given their viewpoint on modified growth but the FDA has not and Susan I was just wondering if maybe you could opine on your thoughts on how the FDA is thinking about this whole situation? Nik let me take the first question on net price realization you are looking at that right RGRT was 6.1% for the quarter Santa Fe was 3.2% for the quarter.
So on the cigarette business the 6% are good number.
I think when you look at the impact of Newport I would say that had very minimal impact on the overall net price realization.
It was obviously only two weeks and looking at the divested brands numbers I would say it was minimal in the quarter minimal impact from Newport.
Great.
And Nik on the other question we continue to believe that the deeming regs will come out sometime this summer summer is beginning to go past but thats the best information that we have and of course we feel very confident that we can respond to whatever those regs are.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
Hi I just had a two follow-ups if I could from earlier questions and not to be so short-term focus but is there earnings accretion coming through from the Lorillard acquisition here in the second half if you will or here in 2015? There will be yes.
Okay.
Although as weve said we expect that in the first 12 months or will be some accretion in the back half of this year yes.
Okay just want to be sure on that.
Thank you.
And then I was also curious in relation to Camel is the capsule technology and its presence in menthol is that complementary to Newport or is that change your sort of marketing strategy for Camel going forward just given your now very large presence in the menthol category? We are getting to know very well now the Newport consumer and the most important thing is to look at the consumers for Newport and the consumers for Camel there actually is not a lot of overlap and so we see opportunities for both brands and we will continue to refine that strategy going forward.
Okay and just one quick follow-up on I believe the question on like debt-to-EBITDA and debt payout focus are now.
Is there a certain threshold where not - you would like to share repurchase the companys more comfortable is it two times the debt to EBITDA that you like to get back to before you start thinking about share repurchase activity is there or a hard line there? Well certainly we are looking at 2.5 is the number that weve talked about getting back to before we start to evaluate the options on share repurchase.
So we like to operate in that 1.5 to 2.5 range but certainly if we get to 2.5 thats sort of the threshold that we would start to evaluate whether it would be share repurchase or potentially a dividend policy change back to our 80% that we had historically.
Okay thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Judy.
Good morning.
For Andrew just a couple of follow-up from me and just in terms of the quarter I know you said the deal didnt really impact the earnings number but can you just give us the impact on revenue and operating income? Sure if you look at net sales that was about 6% impact from the acquisition and on the net income side it was about 6% and then obviously the diluted shares outstanding changed about 6.8% The net income impact to 6% do you have the operating income impacts? Operating income was 9%.
Okay and then on the guidance I think you just answered Chriss question about the accretion from Lorillard being some of the drivers but in terms of if you look - we look at your underlying results youve increased guidance for the year.
Does that also include some positive performance in terms of volume and pricing and margin in terms of your underlying performance as well? Certainly that takes into account.
The outlook for the year we think were obviously ahead of very good first half for the year and it does take into account the accretion that were claiming to have in the back half of the year as well as just overall performance.
As Susan said one of the things that we will be looking at with industry volumes up 1.9% in the first half.
The second half we do anticipate being a bit different than that because we will be lapping some of the moderation of the industry volume decline as well as we will be lapping the federal tobacco-quota buyout ending in October so both of those things have been taken into account.
Okay.
And then Susan maybe just your perspective on with some of the changes in terms of the brand ownership with Imperial and obviously your ownership of Newports just your assessment of how you envision the competitive dynamics sort of evolving into next 6 to 12 months.
And then as you now become as your brand mix is now a bit more premium is there any change to just in terms of how you think about your pricing and promotional strategies for your total brand portfolio? I mean its little early to describe all that and we will go into some more details in the meetings later this week and early next week and those will also be webcast.
But I would say obviously we are very excited to have Newport in the house very excited about the opportunity for Newport.
And as youve referenced we sit here with 90% to 92% of our volume now in the growth brands with an enhanced premium mix and we will certainly go to market to compete in those must win segments.
And well also take a look some of you read through the asset purchase agreement and the surrounding terms but we are in sort of a standstill period at retail with ITG Brand and that will evolve over the next six months and well explain some of those things as I said as the week goes on but sufficed to say that we are getting to know the Newport consumer weve picked up 50 000 additional retail contracts many new customers and a significant database of those customers.
And so we are working on our strategies to optimize our performance and I think that you'll see a great run going forward.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Thanks Judy.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Bonnie.
Good morning.
Well I just have two questions I guess I was hoping you could talk a little bit more in the manufacturing of Newport and why this transition won't take place until next year Susan I think you mentioned later next year so should we assume third or fourth quarter and I guess I'm curious why this is taking so long.
Sure Bonnie.
Weve scheduled this for 18 months we are physically moving the machines that made Newport from Greensboro into our factory in Tobaccoville and this absolutely ensures that we will meet the FDA requirements to produce exactly the same specification.
And so we're moving a machine every couple of weeks but it takes time to move those machines and then we have complexes that are moving to Greensboro to produce Winston-Salem and KOOL.
And so that has all been lined up the volume will fold in here.
So it won't come exactly smoothly and well be prepared as Andrew said I think but the back of the third quarter well be able to give you a little more information about that but we have allowed the right amount of time to ensure that we can exactly reproduce and so in that interim we have a reciprocal manufacturing agreement with ITG Brands.
We are making Winston-Salem and KOOL for them and they are making Newport for us and once that volume all gets into Tobaccoville of course we will recognize quite a significant operational efficiency and cost base.
So its really a second half 2016 by the time you're finished with this transition? Yes it is.
And then just quickly are you seeing any disruptions at this point so far with this reciprocal agreement? We are not.
I think there has been some rumblings about Newport inventory and actually to be honest with you the total inventory of Newport that is out in the trade is absolutely standard levels.
It's not exactly all equally placed as it happened and so we have not heard of any concerns about retail out of stocks but there have been some wholesalers that put things on quota.
And it was interesting because we close that transaction on June 12 and we took orders on the [Monday].
So we manage that transition very well but we move for instance from a one-day to a three-day delivery so we had wholesalers ordering more product upfront.
We also probably had wholesalers that were worried it wouldn't work so they ordered a lot of product upfront.
And then there were a couple of states where there were tax increases where there was no floor tax and they ordered a lot upfront.
So we are very confident in the manufacturing agreement and all volumes are intact.
It's just that they're finding their way to the right places in this early stage.
Yes were working to smooth out that inventory.
I think it should be considered sort of a short-term issue.
Okay thats good to hear.
And then my final question is sort of a follow-on Natural American Spirit which again continues to perform very well.
So curious to hear where these share gains are being sourced from and then could you may be drill down on the strength of the brand and how much this has been a function of the stronger tobacco consumer versus some of your stepped-up promotions behind the brands.
Because I think as you mentioned earlier the stepped-up problem was probably contributed to your lower net price realization for the brand.
Well probably remember thats off a much higher base.
Right.
So NAS does not discount and the promotions are trial promotion only.
Id say the following we would say that the increase in sales volume at NAS is more than half same-store same style and so it really continues to resonate with consumer.
Now to your point the whole premium segment is doing well amongst consumers but NAS particularly has such a relevant positioning for today's consumer and its a differentiated positioning.
And well talk again a little bit more about that on these upcoming webcasts and in the meetings that were going to hold Friday and Monday.
But NAS continues to go from strength to strength is gaining market share in every state and I think it reached that sort of critical mass tipping point in many of the very trendsetting cities here in the U.S.
So we are very bullish about it continuing to run.
I would just add on the marketing support promotional support side that has not changed significantly year-over-year.
Thats been pretty consistent all the way through.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Your line is open.
I just had a couple of follow-up questions we havent talked a whole lot about specific revenue synergies with the acquisition and youve talked a little bit about how Camel and Newport are both pretty complementary also from a geographic perspective they are pretty complementary.
So I was curious if we could get your thoughts on the potential for geographic expansion for Newport I know it's still early days but just how you are thinking about that going forward.
And then just as a follow-up how to ensure from the sales force perspective that they are prioritizing the two brands Camel and Newport both are doing very well obviously and how you keep the focus on both brands separately? Thank you.
Sure Bill thanks.
I think certainly there are opportunities for revenue synergies if you think about it Newport has almost doubled its sales force representation within this transaction and so there are just that many more people out there representing Newport in that many more stores.
We are very confident that our sales force with prioritized programs will focus on our priority brand.
There is certainly geographic complementarity and as we will talk a little bit more about how this will unfold in terms of the retail universe over the next 9 month to 12 month as we get into these meetings later in the week.
But we are confident we do believe that we can accelerate the growth of Newport and specific plans on how that will happen will unfold by the end of this year.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bill.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thank you so much for the question.
First the housekeeping item the perspectives related to your debt issuance indicated that you had $1.1 billion in revolver borrowings outstanding around mid-June.
Im curious if that was still the case that month.
And then secondly if you look at sort of your schedule for debt maturities that looks like you don't get back to that 1.5 times to 2.5 times range potentially into 2018.
I wanted to make sure that that sort of directionally the right way to think about it or if there is some potential to hit that range little sooner? Thank you.
Yes I think the answer to your first question yes that has been paid back the $1.1 billion was paid back in June and so that is reflected in the numbers.
And I think you are looking at exactly right 2018 if we continue to pay that debt down as it matures that 2018 is the timeframe that that would be in.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Priya.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Two quick follow-ups first enter the 6% and 9% contribution from the deal to sales and EBIT is that for RJR segment or the total company level? Thats the total company.
Okay great thanks.
And then just back to following up on the vapor question - what that profitable in the quarter that was apparent to me? It was not it was not I think Susan outline thats we are going to continue to look at the weve had year now since the national launch and were continuing to refine our strategies and our view on that but it was not in the second quarter.
That makes more sense.
And then did you still think that it would have been in 3Q or is that and fairly the case? That is not necessarily the case we have not given any specific timeframe for that I think we are going to continue to evaluate the category continue to see how that category develops and the competitive environment and well invest appropriately.
But we are confident long-term that our model is the right model and that will get to very profitable situation.
So do youre not thinking anymore that it will be profitable starting next quarter or that I guess this quarter that were in now.
No.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Spielman of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Adam.
I wanted to ask a question about how fall the route-to-market agreements limits your ability to markets and change the promotion and the way you deal with consumers in the next five months and also the next I guess 18 months or 17 months.
What impact that will have on your business? Adam if you'll indulge me we will cover that this Friday in New York and next Monday in London and it will be webcast because it takes a little time to walk through the various portions of that timeframe and that route-to-market.
So if I say we are absolutely confident that we will continue to be competitive and that that our brands will continue great performance but there are phases in the route-to-market that will affect some of the development timetable.
So we will outline those later this week.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
At this time there are no other questions in queue.
I would like to turn the call back Mr.
Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Reynolds American Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to avoid any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session Thank you.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll review Reynolds American's results for the third quarter and first nine months as well as our revised full-year outlook.
As usual our discussion will include adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As you know it was a very busy quarter for us.
And I'd like to start today with Reynolds American's results which wrapped up a very strong first nine months.
Our net sales earnings and margins were all significantly higher in the third quarter driven by excellent performance at our operating companies and the impact of Newport's addition to the R.J.
Reynolds portfolio.
Adjusted industry cigarette volumes declined by 0.8% in the quarter with continued growth in the premium cigarette category.
In the moist-snuff category the environment remains competitive and adult consumers continue to move back and forth between the various tobacco categories modestly impacting the growth in moist-snuff volume.
As I said before our operating companies have a key advantage in offering a diversified product portfolio across tobacco categories with a range of distinctive brands at different price points and this broad portfolio is also aligned with the key consumer macro trends that are driving brand choice.
In addition our company's strategy is to maximize the performance of the entire portfolio with each of their key brand playing a distinctive role.
Our companies are successfully managing this dynamic interplay between categories and between their key brands and RAI is benefiting greatly from it.
Of course a major highlight of the quarter with the significant momentum on the Newport brand and a significant contribution to R.J.
Reynolds profitability.
The integration of Newport which was acquired in June continues to go very well.
The reciprocal contract manufacturing with ITG will continue until later next year but the transfer of equipment to the Tobaccoville facility is well underway.
Under the route to market agreement no changes can be made to existing retail contracts until the middle of next month.
The R.J.
Reynolds is currently selling in new retail contracts and we are confident that Newport's expanded presence will drive further growth on the brand.
The company's marketing and sales teams are also very focused on doing the necessary consumer research on Newport and identifying additional revenue opportunities for the brand as well as for the company's other growth brands Camel and Pall Mall.
Our employees are doing a great job with Newport's integration and we are very happy with the way things are progressing.
Before I give you more details on our operating performance I'd like to update you on VUSE e-cigarettes and then I'll cover a number of other recent developments.
RJR Vapor's VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette continued to perform well in the third quarter and increased its number one share position in the C-store channel.
At the end of last month four additional styles of VUSE cartridges were made available nationally.
The brand now offers crema mint berry and chai in addition to the existing original and menthol style.
Adult smokers have told our company's consumer engagement team that they are interested in having more options in addition to the traditional tobacco flavors because they say that this could help them to switch to a smoke-free alternative like VUSE.
Offering adult vapors a variety of options to consider is very much in line with our company's commitment to driving innovation which is a key part of our transforming tobacco strategy.
VUSE continues to invest in the development of a robust pipeline of innovation and we'll be giving you more details on that at our Investor Day presentation in London and New York in November.
As we announced late last month manufacturing operation for VUSE has been consolidated at R.J.
Reynolds' Tobaccoville facility in line with the services agreement between R.J.
Reynolds and RJR Vapor.
And this will increase efficiencies as the vapor category and VUSE continue to develop.
Moving onto some of the other headlines.
In September we announced the proposed sale of the Natural American Spirit business outside the U.S.
to the JT Group for $5 billion.
We believe it's a great deal.
It will allow our companies to focus on brand growth here at home or the strength of JT Group's international capabilities will support the tremendous growth potential for Natural American Spirit overseas.
I should note that this transaction still have to be approved by regulatory authorities in a number of countries but that's expected to happen by early next year and the transaction should close shortly thereafter.
Another development was the signing of a technology sharing term sheet between R.J.
Reynolds and British American Tobacco which provides a framework for collaboration and mutual cross-licensing of vapor product technologies through 2022.
The companies are still negotiating specifics of the agreement and they expect to reach a definitive contract by the end of this year.
In addition R.J.
Reynolds and Santa Fe reached a settlement last week with the State of New York on the NPM disputed payments.
The settlement resolves NPM adjustment claims encompassing 11 years and puts in place a new method of determining future adjustments from 2015 forward.
We are very pleased to have reached a resolution on this longstanding dispute with New York.
And as a result the companies will receive significant value for the impact to their brands resulting from manufacturers who are not subject to the obligations of the Master Settlement Agreement.
R.J.
Reynolds and Santa Fe will continue to pursue resolution of their NPM disputed payment claim against the remaining 27 states and other jurisdictions that have not yet settled with the companies.
As you know there have also been developments on the regulatory front.
In response to the FDA ruling that four of R.J.
Reynolds cigarette style are not substantially equivalent to their respective predicate products the company immediately stopped sales and notified trade partners of appropriate steps to stop further distribution marketing and promotion of those products.
R.J.
Reynolds took the same action on Camel White styles because the products have the same characteristics as the Pall Mall styles impacted by the ruling.
I'd remind you that these cigarette styles represent a very small portion of R.J.
Reynolds business and we believe R.J.
Reynolds brands will capture the majority of volume from the discontinued styles.
Let me reiterate that the company strongly disagrees with the FDA's ruling and is still examining all of its options.
Now let's start the rest of our quarterly discussion beginning with traditional cigarettes.
Total RAI company's domestic cigarette volumes increased 29.5% in the third quarter significantly benefiting from the addition of Newport.
Overall cigarette industry volume declined 2.2% for the quarter; when adjusted for wholesale inventory changes industry shipments were down about 0.8%.
Total RAI operating company's domestic retail market share also increased in the quarter by 0.3 of a percentage point to almost 34%.
Focusing for a minute on R.J.
Reynolds I'm very pleased to report that the third quarter was very strong for the company.
Adjusted operating income and margin were significantly higher driven by an increase of over 30% in the company's cigarette shipments.
I'd note that R.J.
Reynolds' retail market share is presented on a pro forma basis which reflects share information from the company's new brand portfolio following the acquisition and the related divestiture.
Reflecting these factors R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette retail market share was down slightly from the prior-year quarter at 32%.
However the company's expanded portfolio of growth brands Newport Camel and Pall Mall added 0.2 of a percentage point in combined retail market share to 29.4% for the quarter.
These brands now make up about 92% of the company's total cigarette market share.
Even with the standstill and restrictions that I mentioned earlier Newport is showing excellent momentum with third quarter share of retail shipments increasing 0.5 percentage point from the prior-year quarter to 13.3%.
Camel's retail market share performance held steady in the quarter at 8.3% and the company remains focused on initiatives to build the brand's equity.
Performance of R.J Reynolds' Pall Mall value brand reflected the company's continued balance between share and profitability.
The brand's retail market share was down 0.3 of a percentage point at 7.8% in the third quarter and was flat sequentially.
As I'm sure you noticed in today's release Santa Fe drove performance to new heights in the third quarter with double-digit growth in volume and operating income.
The company's highly profitable Natural American Spirit brand is successfully broadening awareness and trial beyond its traditional strong markets in the Western U.S.
and the brand reported retail market share of 1.9% for the quarter.
That was up 0.3 percentage point from the prior-year quarter.
And Natural American Spirit's distinctive natural tobacco styles grew volume by almost 20%.
Now turning to moist-snuff and American Snuff's continued solid performance in a competitive market.
The company again increased operating income with its flagship Grizzly brand delivering higher volume and retail market share.
American Snuff grew total moist-snuff volume by 4.4% which again outpaced industry growth of about 2.5% for the quarter.
As a result the company's moist-snuff retail market share was up 1.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter at 33.7%.
Grizzly delivered third quarter retail market share growth of 1.4 percentage points to almost 31% and that was on volume growth of 4.6%.
I'm pleased to say that Grizzly's reputation for offering innovative products continues.
The brand's Dark Wintergreen style which was expanded nationally in March is performing very well.
So all in all RAI's third quarter and nine months have gone extremely well and we continue to deliver excellent total shareholder returns.
And I'm especially pleased with the way that Newport's integration is progressing.
So now I'll turn the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American and its operating companies had a great quarter which included Newport's first full quarterly contribution earnings and this resulted in a very successful first nine months.
RAI increased third quarter reported EPS by 4.5% from the prior-year quarter to $0.46.
On an adjusted basis third quarter EPS was $0.55 up 17% from the prior-year quarter.
These results were supported by higher pricing and volumes across the board the expiration of the federal tobacco-quota buyout as well as continuous productivity improvements.
Adjusted EPS excludes a charge of $0.04 per share for implementation costs and a charge of $0.05 per share for asset impairment and exit costs related to the consolidation of VUSE's manufacturing operations.
RAI's nine month reported EPS was $2.45 about double the prior-year period.
On an adjusted basis nine-month EPS was $1.50 up more than 18%.
Adjusted EPS excludes the items I've just mentioned as well as the gain on the divestiture a benefit from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim charges for transaction-related and financing costs Engle Progeny cases and tobacco-related and other litigation.
RAI's third quarter adjusted operating margin jumped by 6.4 percentage points to almost 44.5%.
Now I'll turn to our operating companies' performance where I'll discuss adjusted results where applicable.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
As Susan said R.J.
Reynolds performed very well in the third quarter with higher cigarette pricing and the expiration of the federal tobacco-quota buyout benefiting the bottom line in addition to Newport's contribution.
The company's reported operating income was $1.1 billion.
Adjusted operating income increased by 64.6% from the prior-year quarter to $1.2 billion.
For the nine months R.J.
Reynolds' reported operating income was $2.4 billion.
Nine-month adjusted operating income increased by more than 35% to $2.7 billion.
The company's third quarter operating margin grew by 5.1 percentage points to 46.7%.
And as Susan mentioned the company's third quarter cigarette shipments were up 30.2% from the prior-year quarter.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 7.6 billion units at the end of third quarter up about 600 million from the prior-year quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately $2.3 billion were in line with the preceding quarter reflecting the normalized level of the new cigarette portfolio.
Before I move on to Santa Fe I'd like to highlight the favorable impact from the settlement between the participating manufacturers in the state of New York on the NPM disputed payments.
As a result of the settlement R.J.
Reynolds and Santa Fe will receive credits currently estimated to be approximately $290 million that will be applied to the company's MSA payments over the next four years for its adjusted claims relating to the years 2004 through 2014.
Additionally the company may also receive credits based on a sliding scale key to the volume of non-state-excise-tax paid tribal sales in New York during the relevant market year.
I'd note that since 2012 R.J.
Reynolds has reached settlements in 24 jurisdictions on NPM adjustment claims related to the company's Master Settlement Agreement payments.
Now moving on to Santa Fe.
Higher pricing and volume also boosted Santa Fe's earnings and the company increased operating income by more than 23% from the prior-year quarter to $120 million.
That brought nine-month operating income to $337 million which was up almost 37%.
Santa Fe's third quarter operating margin also rose by 0.7 percentage point to more than 55%.
It's worth noting that for the nine months the company reported operating margin of 55.5%.
Now let's turn to American Snuff.
The company increased third quarter operating income 3.4% to $121 million as higher pricing and volume more than offset the timing of marketing support activity.
For the first nine months operating income rose almost 12.5% to $369 million.
American Snuff's operating margin remained strong at 57.5% for the quarter.
Before I turn to the Q&amp;A there are some other important items I want to mention.
In line with the company's commitment to deleverage as quickly as possible while maintaining financial flexibility we plan to pay down $450 million in debt that matures on Friday.
At the end of the third quarter our total long-term debt was $17 billion.
I'd note again that we have a very manageable debt portfolio which carries an average interest rate of 4.5% with an average maturity of 12.1 years.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $2.9 billion.
We remain deeply committed to returning value to our shareholders.
And in that vein I'd remind you of our two-for-one stock split in August as well as the most recent 7.5% dividend increase.
So that finishes up a highly successful year-to-date.
And as a result we're tightening our full year adjusted earnings guidance to a range of $1.94 per share to $2 per share.
Please note that this adjusted earnings guidance excludes all the items I mentioned at the beginning of my discussion.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? Your first question comes from Bill Marshall with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Bill.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I actually just wanted to drill in a little bit actually on the technology-sharing agreement with BAT that you discussed.
I don't believe that this agreement includes the heat-not-burn technology if I'm not mistaken.
So I just wanted to check on that.
And then in the past you've kind of alluded towards developing maybe a Revo 2.0 or Eclipse 2.0 product and I was curious with the high hurdle to get a product like that maybe in the U.S.
with the FDA restrictions any reason why that wouldn't be included in this agreement with BAT and then maybe something you could look to sell internationally to get it off the ground? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Bill.
The companies are still working out the definitive agreement.
The top line term sheet was very much focused on vapor.
Certainly we are open to discussions when it comes to heat-not-burn.
And you're not wrong in the context of using some of the innovation that we've already developed in heat-not-burn outside the U.S.
will be quicker than getting it through our own FDA.
So those possibilities are all still open to us.
We're hoping to come to a definitive agreement by year-end and of course we'll share the specifics with you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Bill.
Your next question comes from Owen Bennett with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Owen.
Morning.
Hey.
So firstly I was just wondering what changes you have been able to put into place with regards to driving the sub-prime synergies of Camel and Newport bearing in mind the marketing restrictions.
Or are the share gains that we are seeing is that just the existing underlying momentum before any change is put into place? And then secondly how are you progressing with the cost saves? And can you give an estimate of how much you expect to deliver in the current year? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I'll take the first one.
We're delighted with Newport's momentum.
It does seem to be accelerating you're right I mean up 0.5 share point over year-over-year.
And we've not been able to change the merchandising.
So as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we are very encouraged that as we are selling in these retail contracts that we'll be able to build this momentum once these contracts go into place.
And remember the contracts will probably take three months to four months to set on a national basis beginning in mid-November.
Really I would attribute the current momentum yes the brand came to us with natural momentum but remember we doubled the sales force overnight.
And so I believe there's just more feet on the street looking out after Newport.
And I'll hand over to Andrew on the synergies.
Yeah.
On the cost savings we're on track as we've talked about $800 million worth of synergies we've got $300 million we anticipate achieving over the first 18 months of the deal so we're on track with that.
There's obviously continued efforts to try and accelerate and improve that number we've incentivized the entire workforce to continue to look for those synergies and cost savings across the board.
So we're on track; we feel good about that.
We haven't provided a number for this year but I would say that majority of that $300 million is actually back ended as that volume transitions out of the former Lorillard factory now owned by ITG and into our larger facility in Tobaccoville.
Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Owen.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Vivien.
Good morning.
So I recognize that we're still waiting for regulatory approval on the sale of Natural American Spirit outside of the United States but can you give us some color on how we should think about the opportunity to de-lever the balance sheet and the implications for returning cash to shareholders please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll just start and then turn it over to Andrew as necessary.
I think you're absolutely right.
We do have these regulatory approvals.
We do expect it to close early in the new year.
And I think we've sort of stated our commitment to returning value to shareholders and our priorities to de-lever.
We are not prepared at this stage to give specifics to those dollars but we will certainly be coming forward with that as we approach the close.
Yeah.
I think I would just add we're obviously looking at the different options.
It's a good problem to have and we're going to be looking at that and we'll come forward when we have something specific to talk about.
Terrific.
Thank you.
And then a question on the substantial equivalents and your decision to pull Camel White's voluntarily; do you feel like there's anything else in the system that could be at risk or do you feel like you've cleaned up the portfolio from an SE perspective? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Certainly from those SE rulings Vivien we are totally clean.
Those Camel White styles had the same characteristics as the ruling on the Pall Mall styles.
And so that was a decision that we took.
And as I stated we disagree with the ruling.
We look forward to working with the FDA on the process and we'll see where we go from here.
But certainly we are clean and as you know that combined market share was about 0.34% (26:46) and as I stated we do expect that we will recapture most of that volume with other styles in the family.
Terrific.
That's very helpful.
If I could just squeeze in one last one obviously industry volumes continue to track very well.
Susan on the last call you indicated that you thought industry volumes could be down 2%.
So I was wondering if you could update that.
And additionally if you could offer any commentary at all on the volume trends that you're seeing in Hawaii just because of the implementation of the new legal purchase age please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I'll say  as we saw the quarter was down 2.2% 0.8% on adjusted basis.
When we think about it we are expecting  if you look back over the years and during the recessionary period where people were mixing down we saw 3% to 4% of cigarette declines and in the really strong years we've seen it  like this year it's been particularly strong where the economy  we've had very good economic tailwinds for our consumers.
But probably the average of this 2% to 4% decline rate is where we should look as we go forward and obviously we'll report on that every quarter.
We have not yet been able to dissect Hawaii.
As you know it's a very small state and we'll certainly look at those results.
What's interesting and the perspective on that is that we have worked with the states for years to reduce underage smoking and we've been very successful getting laws in place.
The vast majority of volume that is used by underage is bought for them by adults.
So the outcome of the 21 versus 18 I don't think we can see anything yet with that.
There are better ways to address it.
But having said that that's the state's call but we will be following that and obviously we'll be following if there's any other momentum as we go forward.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Vivien.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Judy.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
So Andrew I actually have a few detailed questions around the deal impacts.
So first just in terms of the impact of acquisition sized divestitures on volume and net pricing? Yeah.
Judy we have some estimates and I'm happy to share it's going be just that though an estimate.
Obviously this gets more difficult as we go forward in terms of really assessing where we would have been versus where we are.
But on the volume side our estimate is about 5%.
Okay.
And then any color on revenue or pricing? Yeah.
On pricing if you look at our numbers our net pricing for the quarter was about 14%.
I think if you take out the acquisition and the mix we would be in that similar position as we were in the first half which was right around 6%.
Okay.
And then on the COGS side so I guess I'm just trying to understand how the cost transfer to Imperial would have shown up in the quarter because if I sort of look back at your base RJR or Reynolds' COGS and then add Lorillard's COGS I'm getting kind of a $574 million or $590 million.
So pretty similar level excluding the settlement payments and excise taxes and so forth.
So how should we think about that $500 million COGS transfer that would have shown up in the quarter as a result of the Imperial transaction? Yeah.
I think that's right; so the costs essentially have come out of the business that's $500 million on an annualized basis of course.
So we're basically tracking right on that.
So the impact from the additional synergies that we talked about as I said earlier will be back-ended.
There are some that will show up this year but it's going to be minimal.
The majority of the first year  first full year synergies will come in the second six months as the volume transitions out of the Lorillard facility.
Okay.
Okay.
And then Susan just a question about Camel franchise and I know that you've talked about your efforts to improve the brand equity of that franchise but just wanted to see if you can kind of point to what you're doing more specifically if you look at some of the share trends obviously it's been a little bit softer in the context of the growing premium segment so what do you think is causing a little bit of that softness and kind of what are you doing exactly to drive better growth in the Camel franchise? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We are actually pleased with Camel's performance.
Of course it did take a little hit this quarter from those SE  those non-equivalent styles.
So that did have a small impact on the Camel brand with Camel Bold and the Camel White style.
So we feel good about Camel.
We are very excited about the new retail contracts for Camel which I know goes beyond the equity exploration but we are excited about the expanded presence for Camel on the Eastern side of the U.S.
which will start in November.
So the whole industry has mixed up a bit premium is up certainly year-over-year and of course we benefited substantially with NAS and Newport and Camel's held its own.
So we are working as Debra talked about I think at the last time we met at an Investor Day at looking at how that family will present itself going forward and making sure that we have the most relevant styles but we continue to be pleased with Camel menthol's performance Camel Crush performance and that the family is in good shape.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets? Oh sorry about that guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Nik.
Yeah I forgot that mute button.
So two questions.
Smokeless just wanted to get some context kind of what's going on in the category.
Looks like volumes have rebounded nicely but pricing was negative so just state of the union there and how long that will continue? And then just the big picture question on e-cigarettes I see the other line is still in negative territory.
I know you guys said that you'll continue to spend as you see fit so just curious on the strategy there.
I mean are you seeing competitors  exit the market and so you feel like there's a window of opportunity to kind of consolidate the shelf.
Any perspective you can share on the strategy behind the e-cig spend? Thanks.
Very good.
Nik I'll take I guess first shot at the question.
With regard to American Snuff Company obviously we showed an adjusted operating income of 3.4%.
A lot of that was driven by timing of marketing activity.
And if you go back and you look historically we've had some ups and downs by the quarter but really I think I'd point you back to the year-to-date of 12.4% we're very happy with that.
Some of this was just a matter of timing in terms of some of our marketing expense.
So nothing beyond that.
We feel very good about the volumes obviously coming through and I would look at the year-to-date as the more  a better indicator of sort of where we are with the business.
With regard to the electronic cigarettes and VUSE yes so we've seen some improvements there obviously we're focused on productivity improvements.
We've consolidated the operations.
All of that is moving in that direction.
But as we've talked about previously we want to be prudent with our investments.
We certainly want to invest based on the opportunity that we see in the marketplace.
And there are certainly opportunities long-term for this category.
I think we've been prudent.
We're now number one in the C-store channel by a significant margin.
We continue to take market share from our competitors.
And I think we're going to continue to read the market and see what opportunities present themselves.
Great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Of course I'd remind you this quarter we did launch the four new flavors and we're getting some enthusiastic response.
And of course that gives VUSE a slightly stronger footprint at retail.
And you do see retailers consolidating certainly the categories certainly traditional retailers.
And so we're investing prudently but it's important that VUSE remain the  we said that our objective was to be the vapor authority and then to invest in other innovative products for consumers down the pipeline is also important.
And then keep in mind the numbers that you're looking at do include close to $100 million of cost that were associated with the consolidation of facilities.
Got you.
And if I can ask just one more question in terms of the take up of the new contracts that you guys will be launching in November when will you have a good understanding of what the take-up rate is for those contracts? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The way these work we're pleased with the results so far.
It's not uncommon at all that a lot comes flurrying in in the last two weeks.
So I think the cut-off day is November 15.
And so we will certainly know more.
Certainly as we come into our investor days that are set up for November we will have much more clarity but we are encouraged.
And of course as you know it's public that Newport is part of our EDLP contract and so retailers are evaluating their participation based on their business model.
So we will be able to update further in a couple of weeks.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Nik.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up Andrew with something I think you just said a minute ago that the VUSE costs included about $100 million from consolidating production.
Was that in the quarter or year-to-date? And is that a number you've excluded as part of adjusted or is that in the adjusted number? Yeah that's in the quarter.
So of the $127 million loss and all other that's in the quarter and that is an adjustment that we have made for third quarter so that does come out.
Okay.
All right.
No problem.
And then just wanted to talk a little bit about Pall Mall last quarter especially you were talking about some of the focus on driving trial and conversion there.
Obviously it's held share sequentially but could you give a sense of some of (39:00) how you feel like that progress is going? Do you expect share gains to return there or do you think that that's sort of a necessary spend to hold share with some  the new competitive environment or how do you think about that brand and what your marketing efforts are likely to give you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Michael.
As we said and as you pointed out it was flat quarter-over-quarter.
So this 0.3% was lost actually early on in the year and at the back-end of last year.
Now  and remember that the whole industry the premium mix is improving.
And so as consumers have traded up to premium and of course we benefit significantly now with Newport as well as NAS and Camel in the portfolio.
So we feel that Pall Mall is playing its role.
We are happy with its market share performance.
It's important to have a strong value property because the economics can change and people can start down trading to a value brand.
But we are very happy with Pall Mall and we do believe actually that as we expand these EDLP contracts these merchandising contracts beginning next month the Pall Mall will benefit from that because it will be the every-day-low-price brand in more stores.
And so we will obviously update that as we go through the first quarter.
But we don't expect Pall Mall to continue to decline but of course we also like the premiumization of the category.
So we are happy with that balance of profit and share as we speak.
No.
That's helpful.
And just back on Camel White can you describe a little bit more on what the similarities were with the NFC (40.42) products? Is it menthol level? Is it the filter? What is it that made you think  it made sense to proactively go ahead and pull that instead of maybe just even waiting until  if the FDA hadn't done something yet were you convinced that they were going to get around to it or what was your thinking around all that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes and yes.
The thinking was the characteristics of Camel White across the board the product was the same as the Pall Mall style.
And therefore our determination was what the FDA ruled on was that product versus its predicate and so it was beholden and prudent on our side to take that product off the market and that's what we did.
And as I said we disagree with the ruling and we want to understand this process and we're pursuing all of our options.
But that was the right decision and that's why we took Camel White out.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi everyone.
Good morning Matt.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Thanks.
So just two questions.
First two clarifications I guess for Andrew and then just one follow-up.
So Andrew I just wanted to come back to the inventory numbers and the sort of underlying volume numbers you talked about earlier.
You mentioned that inventory at the industry level was up about 600 million units year-on-year...
That's right.
...but then industry volumes were down 80 basis points versus reported industry volumes down 2.2% which would suggest the year-on-year inventory reduction.
So I guess could you just help me reconcile those numbers does that just having trouble squaring those two? Yeah.
So the inventory change obviously is versus last year's third quarter obviously when we look at the third quarter volume performance that looks at the inventory adjustments within the quarter.
Okay.
So I'd be happy to take that offline and we can work through that with you but...
Okay.
...obviously the 600 million units versus the third quarter last year.
Okay.
I'll take another look and follow up offline as well.
And then inventory levels generally they are still quite a bit higher than they were at Q1.
Should we think of them as being somewhat normalized now or are they still at elevated levels overall? I would say our inventory is normalized for the new portfolio as you look at that today.
The industry looks to be elevated versus year end last year for sure.
Okay.
And then just the 5% underlying volume number you mentioned earlier could you just clarify what that represents? Yeah that's basically just an estimate of the impact of the acquisition so 5% additional volume in the quarter.
Again and I do want to highlight this because it is an estimate and it's something that's going to get more difficult as we go forward as changes in all of these products occur.
But we are trying to track and make sure that we are achieving all of the synergies and looking at are we getting the impact from the acquisition that we anticipated.
We're right on track.
Synergies are coming in.
The volumes are coming in.
We're very happy with the performance in Newport in the third quarter.
And I think the 5% is an estimate that we're looking at in terms of impact of the acquisition on the volumes.
Okay.
Thanks Andrew.
And then just a broader question about the competitive environment in full flavor menthol I think there is some new line extensions coming to market in the next several weeks.
So just any observations; are you seeing any increase in competitive intensity during this initial period of ownership when you're still updating your trade contracts? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's really stayed competitive and of course we have honored all of Lorillard's commitments to the retailers.
We have put in money where we thought that was necessary and of course we're going into our new contract period and Newport will be featured in more stores.
But the premium menthol space has been very competitive for quite a long time.
And of course Camel from our portfolio has been battling it out with our friends in Richmond forever and now of course we have Newport in our stable.
So we are very confident and we haven't seen any changes in the segment overall.
That segment is still strong and it's still growing.
So we'll see how that unfolds as the new contracts come into place and whatever new styles may be coming.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you both.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Chris.
Good morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just have a couple of follow-ups for you if I could.
I just wanted to get a better sense and not so much around 4Q or even 1Q but once the new retail contracts are in place I assume you're going to tell me that both Newport and Camel should benefit from that one.
I'm trying to get a sense of is one benefiting more than the other? You have the sort of the new customers or new accounts that perhaps Camel could benefit from on the East Coast and likewise Newport could benefit from Camel contracts  off Camel.
Is there one that benefits more than the other or one maybe you don't want to change too much like those existing Newport customers perhaps you won't see as much change there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think they both will benefit.
There is no doubt.
Now Newport in absolute terms is a bigger brand where it is big.
But I really am excited as we've shown you the math where we get a very balanced national market share although it is made up of different parts of our portfolio and therefore the merchandising opportunities to give Camel some space in the Northeast and give Newport some more space in the West they will both benefit from that.
In their stronghold in the middle of the country perhaps where neither of them  there may not be as much benefit because they're both sort of there.
But I do believe on the coast that both brands will benefit.
And from retail presence from merchandising from the display and where that display is located I think there is quite a bit of opportunity.
And I know our trade marketing guys can't wait to get started resetting the racks and so we look forward to that unfolding over the next few months.
I would just add that I also think Pall Mall will benefit particularly on the East Coast given some of the new contracts that we've picked up with the Lorillard business as well as our new contract with Newport included should benefit Pall Mall as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Are there expenses we should be aware of in relation to the implementation of the new contracts around Q4 Just wanted to make sure were sensitive to any kind of initial costs that may be associated with this? No nothing out of the ordinary.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I just had a quick question if I could on Pall Mall.
If you were to characterize the promotional spending for Pall Mall was it down in the quarter year-over-year? Is that one of the factors that's leading to at least the year-over-year adjustment in  or reduction in market share? No really nothing has changed on that front.
We continue to have strong price realization on Pall Mall but the promotion and the discounting levels of Pall Mall have been fairly consistent.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And that's really why we pointed out that it has been flat quarter-over-quarter.
We lost this market share on Pall Mall partly leading up to the acquisition when we needed to put support dollars behind Winston Salem and KOOL.
And so that is when some of that share was lost.
And then as I talked about the whole sector is trading up a bit.
So we're happy with where Pall Mall is and there's no real change to promotional strategy.
Yeah.
And just to reiterate I think that's really what's driving Pall Mall is the environment has improved and that's why you're seeing the trading up and it is having some impact on Pall Mall but it's not something that we're chasing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you so much for taking the question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Priya.
Inc.</span></strong> I realize it's going to take some time before you are comfortable discussing the use of proceeds from Natural American Spirit and the International transaction.
However I was hoping you might be able to give us a little bit of perspective on how you think about potentially going about your deleveraging plans in conjunction with that.
So as you think about your near-term maturity profile is sort of getting rid of that going to be more beneficial than potentially looking at the interest expense savings that might result from addressing some of your longer dated bonds that have a higher coupon? And then also how do you think about sort of pricing on some of those bonds since taking up the front-end maturities could potentially be cheaper from a cost perspective versus the longer dated? Thank you.
Yeah.
At this point I think it's premature.
We're certainly going to be looking at all of the options in the use of the cash that will come in.
But I think at this point it's just premature to get into all of those sorts of discussions.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's fair.
Should we still be thinking about around $2.5 billion maybe $2.75 billion of debt reduction as the objective over the next couple of years understanding that you guys are taking $450 million out in coming days? Yeah.
Well ultimately the objective really is to get back to our balance sheet metrics that we feel are consistent with our investment-grade profile.
So we're looking at a leverage ratio of  as we've said we want to operate between 1.5 times to 2.5 times.
So that is really what we've been looking at.
Obviously prior to this announcement we talked about getting to 3 times within 24 months.
Certainly that is still on our roadmap and certainly looking to get that achieved and we'll be looking at the options to use the cash from the sale of the International business and we'll have something more to speak to you probably down the road.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Tim Milway with BlackRock.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Regarding the NPM settlement with New York involving the credits for tribal sales for years 2011 through 2014 payments of $90 million were based on 150 million packs at $0.60 per pack.
Is that 150 million number based on actual sales? I'm trying to get a feel for what the credits are going to be going forward.
At this point I'm not sure.
I'd probably have to get more detail on that.
Probably we can take that offline if you want to reach out to Morris after the call.
I'm not sure...
Okay.
...I've got that specifically at hand here.
Okay.
I'll do that.
Another question regarding the new four flavors for your VUSE brand what are your expectations regarding the FDA in flavors going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as I'm sure you've read the deeming regs have gone to the OMB.
And so we don't know what they are yet and that means they could come out soon or not.
But we look forward to those deeming regs and we will see what their position is across the categories that we're waiting to hear.
So it may be  they will come out in due course and we'll keep you posted.
Okay.
And just lastly you've been talking about a up-branding to more of the premium brands.
Could you try to quantify that as far as what percentage you're seeing increase from the discounts to the premiums? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think if we look over a year ago the premium are at 1.4% up versus a year ago.
The premium mix is 71.4% and a year ago it was 70%.
So we continue to see that inching up.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your final question comes from Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
I just have a follow-up to Judy and Matthew's question and sorry if I'm missing something.
But you said that your volumes in the quarter total company basis were up 29.5% but then you're only giving 5 points of that to the acquisition.
What's the missing piece? Am I looking at the right parts there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean...
You know what Michael; I'll take that offline with you if that's okay.
I'll have to go back and see what you're looking at and what I'm looking at as well.
Yeah.
Okay.
That'd be great.
It's all right no problem.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Michael.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Moore I turn the conference back over to you.
Thank you again for joining our call.
If you have any additional questions please feel free to contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Reynolds American Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today well review Reynolds Americans results for the fourth quarter and full year as well as our 2016 outlook.
As usual our discussion will include adjusted results as management believes this provides additional perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAIs President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information were about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Id also remind you that RAIs website is our primary source of publically disclosed news and that we also use Twitter to disseminate company news.
And now Ill turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
I am absolutely delighted by our strong finish to what was already shaping up to be a remarkable year.
RAI and all of our operating companies reported excellent results and the integration of Newport continued to go very well.
2015 was truly a transformational year for RAI and its operating companies.
And weve started the New Year with significant momentum especially in terms of returning value to our shareholders a topic many of you are most interested in.
Since the first of the year weve taken three steps in particular that benefit our investors.
First as we announced this morning were increasing our dividend by 16.7%.
Second we successfully completed the sale of Natural American Spirits business outside the United States for $5 billion in cash.
And third weve recently announced a tender offer and redemption for the early repayment of some of the companys outstanding debt.
As weve said in the past deleveraging is a priority for RAI and were making good progress.
And were taking all these steps whilst still investing in our core businesses as well as in innovations that are key to the success of our long-term growth and our transformation strategies.
Before I discuss our core business performance Id like to give you an update on the innovations front.
As you know we recently created the RAI Innovations Company which is focused on product development and commercialization of leading-edge vapor and nicotine products.
RAI Innovations will drive speed-to-market with new products across a range of platforms.
In addition the vapor collaboration thats now underway between R.J.
Reynolds and British American Tobacco will facilitate the companys efforts to more efficiently meet the preferences of adult tobacco consumers in a rapidly evolving marketplace.
And of course one of the beneficiaries of that focus will be R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Companys VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette.
VUSE continues to perform very well in traditional retail channels.
And its four additional styles that were introduced in September have been well received by adult tobacco consumers.
The brand also introduced VUSE Connect which is available online in the fourth quarter.
And VUSE Fob will also be available online starting next month.
VUSE Port a revolutionary liquid based vapor tank system; and VUSE Pro an innovative closed cartridge system; will be introduced later this year.
Adult tobacco consumers are looking for a vapor experience that delivers the performance and satisfaction of a tank with the simplicity of a cigalike.
Innovation backed by superior quality has helped make VUSE the vapor category leader.
And we believe these new VUSE products will deliver what adult vapors want.
In addition our Niconovum subsidiary remains focused on the national distribution of Zonnic gum.
Zonnic is now in more than 31 000 retail outlets.
And the brands expansion continues to go very well.
Now lets discuss our operating companies performance starting with cigarettes.
Total domestic cigarette volumes for RAIs operating companies increased 33.6% in the fourth quarter driven by the addition of the Newport brand to R.J.
Reynolds portfolio.
For the industry overall cigarette volume declined just 0.5% for the quarter benefiting from lower gas prices and improved employment rates both of which positively impacted adult tobacco consumers disposable income.
When adjusted for wholesale inventory changes industry shipments were down about 0.2%.
Total cigarette market share for RAIs operating companies increased 0.3% from the prior year quarter to 33.8% while their drive brands gained 0.6% to 31.3%.
At R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter performance came in very strong and that was largely the result of Newports growth.
As I mentioned earlier the brands integration continues to progress very well.
And the company is on track to complete the manufacturing transition to the tobacco facility this year.
Newport was added to R.J.
Reynolds retail contracts in mid-November following the expiration of the initial five month standstill period.
And the brands expanded presence is delivering additional gains.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds improved both adjusted operating income and margin substantially as the companys mix to premium price brands grew to just over 70%.
Ill remind you that R.J.
Reynolds retail market share is presented on a pro-forma basis which reflects share information from the companys new brand portfolio following the Lorillard acquisition and the related divestiture.
Reflecting these factors R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share was in line with the prior year quarter at 31.8%.
The companys expanded portfolio of drive brands Newport Camel and Pall Mall added 0.2% in combined market share to 29.3% for the quarter.
And these three brands now make up about 92% of the companys total market share.
Im very pleased to report that Newports growth actually accelerated in the fourth quarter with the brands share of retail shipments increasing 0.6% from the prior-year quarter to 13.6% on volume growth of 4.8%.
That is testament not just to Newports expanded retail presence and the superior execution of the R.J.
Reynolds trade marketing team but also to the inherent equity of the brand.
In addition the companys consumer engagement on Newport is having a positive impact and that bodes well for the brand in the year ahead.
R.J.
Reynolds other two drive brands Camel and Pall Mall continue to play key roles in the companys cigarette portfolio strategy and maintained steady performance in the fourth quarter.
Camels retail market share was in line with the prior year quarter at 8%.
Pall Malls market share was down 0.3% from the prior year quarter at 7.8% while the brand has remained stable for the past three quarters despite R.J.
Reynolds seeing up trading to premium price brands.
R.J.
Reynolds consumer marketing team have exciting plans for all of the drive brands this year and these equity building initiatives are expected to further enhance performance.
Im pleased to say that both Santa Fe and American Snuff also delivered excellent financial and marketplace results in the fourth quarter.
And its not hard to see why.
At Santa Fe Natural American Spirits distinctive super premium styles achieved a market share of 2% which was up by 0.3% from the prior-year quarter.
Natural American Spirits volume continued to make double-digit gains increasing almost 18.5% for the quarter.
At American Snuff the flagship Grizzly brand continued to outperform the moist-snuff industry.
Grizzly increased fourth quarter market share by 0.9% from the prior-year quarter to 30.8% and that was on volume growth of 6.6% compared with the industry growth of about 2.5% for the quarter.
All in all I couldnt be more pleased with the performance of all of our operating companies.
And Im confident that theyll continue their strong momentum and find additional opportunities for growth in 2016 allowing RAI to continue to return great value to our shareholders.
These accomplishments do not happen by themselves and I give the credit to our employees for their dedication and hard work.
They are changing the game for both RAI and for the industry.
And now Ill turn the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
On many measures Reynolds American and its operating companies had another outstanding quarter.
And that brought our year to a very helpful conclusion.
As Susan said our companies are making substantial progress.
And as a result the RAI board has approved an increase of 16.7% in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.42 per share or an annualized $1.68.
This is consistent with our 75% target payout ratio.
The dividend will be payable on April 1 to shareholders of record on March 10.
RAI continues to deliver against its commitment to returning value to shareholders.
And well continue to look for additional opportunities to enhance that value over the long-term.
Now lets turn to our financial results.
For the fourth quarter RAI increased reported EPS by 35.7% from the prior year quarter to $0.19.
On an adjusted basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.48 up 9.1% from the prior year quarter.
These results were supported by strong volumes across the board as well as higher pricing.
Adjusted EPS excludes the following items: a chargeable $0.11 per share for pension and postretirement mark-to-market adjustments; a charge of $0.01 per share for implementation cost primarily related to the sale of Natural American Spirits business outside the United States; a charge of $0.02 per share for tax items; a reduction of $0.17 per share related to the gain on divestiture; a benefit of $0.01 per share from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim; and a one-time benefit of $0.01 per share for the New York NPM settlement.
For the full year RAIs reported EPS was $2.57 and that was up 87.6% from the prior year.
Adjusted EPS for the full year was $1.98 up 15.8% from the prior year.
Adjusted EPS excludes the items Ive just mentioned as well as other items from earlier in the year namely: transaction related and financing costs; asset impairment and exit charges; and charges for Engle progeny cases and tobacco-related and other litigation.
RAIs fourth quarter adjusted operating margin came in very strong again increasing by 4.6% to 41.2%.
Now Ill turn to our operating companys performance where Ill discuss adjusted results where applicable.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
At R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter performance was strong across the board.
The companys reported operating income was $915 million.
On an adjusted basis fourth quarter operating income increased by 66.2% from the prior-year quarter to $1.1 billion benefiting from Newports contribution as well as higher cigarette pricing with robust net price realization.
For the full year R.J.
Reynolds reported operating income was $3.4 billion.
Full year adjusted operating income increased by just over 43% to $3.8 billion.
You can really see R.J.
Reynolds improved performance and its adjusted operating margin which grew by 4.1% to 44.6% in the fourth quarter bringing the years adjusted operating margin to 44.4%.
R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter cigarette shipments were up 34.6% from the prior year quarter driven by the addition of Newport.
I would just note here that wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.9 billion units at the end of the quarter up about 400 million from the prior year quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 2.2 billion remained relatively stable and reflect the normalized level of the new cigarette portfolio.
Now moving on to Santa Fe which also benefited from higher pricing and volume in the fourth quarter Santa Fes reported operating income was $112 million.
On an adjusted basis which excludes a one-time benefit of $1 million from the New York NPM settlement the companys operating income came in at $111 million for the quarter which was up 22.9%.
For the full year reported operating income was $449 million while adjusted operating income increased 33.1% to $448 million.
Santa Fes fourth quarter adjusted operating margin gained 1.1% from the prior year quarter to 52.8%.
For the year adjusted operating margin came in at 54.8%.
So Im happy to report another strong performance by Santa Fe and its Natural American Spirit brand.
Now lets turn to the strong showing in American Snuff.
The companys fourth quarter reported operating income was $133 million while adjusted operating income rose 18.4% to $134 million.
Of course these adjusted results benefited from higher volume and strong net pricing growth of almost 5%.
Adjusted results exclude a $1 million charge for pension and postretirement mark-to-market adjustments all of which added up to another strong year for American Snuff.
Reported operating income rose to $502 million from the prior year while adjusted operating income increased 13.9% to $503 million.
American Snuffs fourth quarter adjusted operating margin jumped by 3.3% to 59.4%; and for the year adjusted operating margin came to 58.8%.
Before I turn to the Q&amp;A there are some other important items that Id like to cover.
As you know we completed the sale of Natural American Spirits business outside the U.S.
in January for $5 billion.
And we are moving quickly on our commitment to deleverage as efficiently as possible while maintaining financial flexibility.
To that end we announced on February 4 a cash tender offer for up to $2.8 billion aggregate cash spend for certain outstanding notes.
And the redemption of $950 million aggregate principal amount of certain other outstanding notes.
Final details of the tender and redemption will be announced upon completion.
Given this progress we would expect to reach the top-end of our target leverage of 2.5 times debt-to-EBITDA by the end of this year.
RAI ended the year with total long-term debt of $16.9 billion.
And as we said before we currently have a very manageable debt portfolio which will be considerably reduced following the tender and redemption.
At the end of 2015 the company had cash balances of $2.6 billion.
And in January we contributed $325 million to the pension plans to further strengthen the plans funded status.
So based on the achievements in 2015 and our expectations for the year ahead our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance range is $2.25 to $2.35 up 13.6% to 18.7% over last years adjusted EPS of $1.98.
Thank you all.
Now well turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Vivien Azer from Cowen.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So my first question has to do with Newport and the market-share momentum that youre seeing there clearly the expanded distribution in EDLP are helping but can you unpack it a little bit in terms of share trends by style and what you guys are doing in terms of promotion on some of the non-core SKUs? Thank you.
Sure Vivien.
I mean we were delighted with Newports progress in the fourth quarter.
I mean that was accelerated momentum picking up 0.6% share of market.
We saw growth in both the premium menthol styles as well as in Newport Red.
And we also believe that contributing to that in addition to the contracts obviously the larger sales force is the consumer engagement strategy.
We are out there talking to smokers and talking about the Newport brand in markets where - it really hasnt been represented.
So we will share a little more insight in the coming months of exactly what were doing with various styles but we see upside potential in certainly both the menthol and the non-menthol.
Thats terrific.
Thank you.
And then on NAS now that you guys have crossed the two share which is so impressive how are you guys thinking about managing your price gaps on that brand to maintain the momentum and the profitability that youre seeing there? NAS has been priced at what we call that sort of super premium price point with certainly a gap to the mainstream premium brands.
And we have sustained that price gap certainly for like the last 10 years.
So I would expect that you will see us continue to maintain that price gap.
As you know we added resources to the sales force last year for Natural American Spirit and certainly that has contributed and the brand has natural momentum.
The values that that brand carries are attractive to adult smokers across the country.
Terrific.
Thanks.
And my last one for Andrew please; the operating companies all did actually better than I was looking for.
The surprise to me was your corporate expense which was a bit higher than were used to seeing.
Is there anything to call out there? Vivien there really isnt.
We had a little bit of expense coming through on our legal book side.
And the rest of it was nothing really out of the ordinary.
On the all other side I would say that there was some additional expense with the rollout of Niconovum.
And also keep in mind that we rolled out the flavors on VUSE as well on fourth quarter.
So beyond that and some legal expense there really wasnt anything out of the ordinary.
Sure.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Vivien.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
Good morning.
So first on guidance for 2016 Andrew so obviously were lapping the acquisitions a little bit difficult just in terms of what youre expecting for underlying trends.
So what is embedded in your guidance in terms of industry volume outlook how much cost synergies youre essentially expecting for the full year? And then in terms of some of the investments around VUSE and some of the e-vapor products what is embedded in that guidance? Sure.
Yes let me start with the industry.
In industry next year we are expecting 2% to 3% decline.
Thats in line with our historic views.
We obviously think the macroeconomic factors are playing into the consumers favor this year as it did in 2015.
We are expecting 2% to 3% decline for next year.
With regard to the synergies the $800 million in synergies that we talked about continues to be our expectation.
We have not identified anything meaningful positive or negative that would have us come off of that number at this time.
So we certainly are I would say a bit ahead of schedule in terms of achieving the synergies.
And we hope to achieve those as quickly as we can.
As you know weve incentivized our organization to do that as quickly as possible.
But the 800 continues to be the number.
And it is our hope that we can accelerate that throughout the year.
The last question you had was on VUSE and I guess the investment that we have on Vapor.
And Im not sure I have any specifics on that.
I think we continue to make great progress certainly the consolidation of the manufacturing facilities that we had in the back half of 2015 was a real positive that put us in a very good position from a cost basis.
We continue to make progress on our cost structure and certain profitability objectives that we have going forward.
But a lot of it will depend on how do the innovations - how are they received by the consumers and how quickly do we look to expand that or not.
So at this point thats probably all I can say on that.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
If I could just follow up on the industry volume outlook so understanding that this is in line with maybe the medium-term target but I guess year-to-date its still tracking maybe below that in terms of some of the measure channel data that were seeing and kind of what were hearing anecdotally.
So are you guys seeing anything that would sort of cause you to think that we do revert back to kind of the more normalized rate of decline for this year? And do you expect maybe some tax-driven retail price increases to be a bit of a headwind as we think about 2016 of volume? I think weve looked at the volume and to your point we dont see any big changes coming into the year.
The macroeconomics in terms of what affects adult tobacco consumers disposable income are the same as they were last year.
We did see declines in the fourth quarter of 0.5%.
So well - and of course that was the quarter if you remember that we lapped the buyout.
So there were dynamics there.
I think our view on the volume in the long-term weve seen 2% to 4% declines in this sector on combustible.
And we are taking the view this year that it will be on the low-end of that range so weve modeled it in that 2% to 3% range.
Obviously it would be nice to be wrong.
But I think that that taking that view consistent with history may be conservative but it is the right way to model at this stage in the year.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Judy.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Marshall with Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the pricing environment in cigarettes specifically if youve seen any changes kind of after the retail contracts were able to be reset later last year and then into the first quarter on how youre feeling about cigarette pricing.
Well I think we certainly saw net price realization.
As we discussed we feel good about the environment.
There was obviously list prices taken in December.
And I think as the contracts has been reset and you guys certainly have some transparency to those retail contracts of course we do have a higher proportion of our contracts in EDLP that does affect pricing Imperial Tobacco has extended their contract universe.
So well see how this plays out in the third quarter.
But I wouldnt describe it as ramping up promotional-spend.
We dont see that.
We continue to see relative stability once those discount rates were announced following that contract change.
And we are still in the process of resetting those contracts.
Weve done very well in terms of resetting all of the independents.
Many of the chains have certain times of year when they changed their planogram.
So we expect to have everything converted by late March early April.
And we are very pleased with the results of that selling.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Yes well.
Yes Bill I would just add that it continues to be a very competitive marketplace.
But thats something that we experienced all through 2015.
And we continue to monitor the marketplace and adjust accordingly based on the environment but really no changes from our perspective.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And then Andrew if I can just follow up with one last question in the past youve talked about maybe revisiting the dividend payout ratio maybe contingent upon on your debt pay-down.
You talked about getting to the higher-end of your target range by the end of the year.
Can you just remind us what kind of factors you would be looking at with your leverage and when it would be time to kind of revisit that dividend payout? Thank you.
Yes.
I think thats pretty straightforward.
We do expect to reach the high-end of our range on the back-half of this year based on the tender and redemption that weve announced in the past week.
With that what we have said historically is that we would not revisit a dividend payout ratio change or a share repurchase until we achieve that deleveraging.
So I would expect once weve reached that range we will have discussions with our board and we will move forward from there.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bill.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning Michael.
Good morning.
Could you just talk a little bit about the Newport share gains and do you have any visibility on where thats sourcing share from? I think Michael as we said in the fourth quarter that accelerated market share growth of Newport is really widespread.
And we saw it both in premium menthol and we saw it in the non-menthol particularly the Red style.
So I would - we are crediting that to a couple of things: one the significantly larger sales force Reynolds took that brand over in July-August; number two we started to have our contracts starting to setup from the middle of November.
And the first contracts to be converted were the menthol-only contracts which were previously the strongest Newport outlets.
And so we have seen that acceleration.
And certainly if you compare it historically to Newports growth Newport historically got all its growth in market-share somehow in the first quarter and then held on.
And this is of course the first year weve owned it and weve only owned it for two quarters.
So weve seen that acceleration and we believe we have good programs in place to continue that.
But well certainly provide more information on that as the year unfolds.
Its just early.
Thanks.
And I guess maybe more specifically just trying to understand some of the maybe brands those share gains are coming from.
Are you seeing anyone switching? It really comes from a mix across the board.
I mean if you look at our non-drive brands I guess there is about 2.5 share points of non-drive brands left.
As you know 92% of our volume is in the drive brands but certainly with source from those certainly with source from some of Altrias non-drive brands and from ITGs non-drive brands.
It really has a broad base appeal to adult smokers.
Okay thanks.
Now thats helpful.
And then on the debt I wonder if you could just clarify.
You have some debt coming due in August thats not a part of the redemption or tender thats correct.
Thats correct.
And do you have any sense of whether or not you might prefer to refinance that or that still be - is that part of your delevering to get to the year-end target? Yes.
Certainly well be looking at that Michael in terms of the entire context of the deleveraging.
So I think at this point in time were taking that into consideration.
Im not sure weve had any specifics.
But that certainly is part of our plan for deleveraging over time.
And what we do with that I think well obviously have more news in third quarter.
Okay.
And then just lastly on RJR the sales obviously were up something around 50%.
Could you give any breakdown of what the pro-forma sort of organic numbers might look like? I realize its not an exact science but if youre saying that industry volumes were sort of roughly flat or just barely up would you be up about a 0.5% on a pro-forma basis? That one is a challenge a little bit.
As these brands get further and further away from where they were with us it really gets to be challenging.
So I would rather not focus on that if thats okay.
Obviously were pleased with our growth of Newport.
Were pleased with our current portfolio.
And its a bit of a challenge to go back and recreate where would some of the divested brands be at this point in time; different strategies and different - just different programs out there.
Yes Yes.
I think the relevant figure that we did disclose is that Newports volume was up about 4.8%.
And thats really the pro-forma of that brand and that is strong growth and of course the growth on NAS but as Andrew said the rest of that portfolio difficult to reconstruct.
There is just new dynamics in the marketplace.
And we are very happy with our drive brand portfolio.
And we will - our strategies in deployment will be completely focused on that new drive brand portfolio.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
Good morning Bonnie.
Actually I have a question on your new innovation on VUSE.
Susan you made a comment that you expect new formats of VUSE to generate even more interested consumers this year.
But I guess Im curious how youre going to bring consumers back to the category that may have left over issues in general with product performance and/or maybe concerns about the relative safety of the products.
How are you going to communicate to these consumers to come back to the category and try these products again especially VUSE? I mean Bonnie whats interesting is our consumer data continues to show growth in trial while the category overall is flat.
So I think that the consumers continue to desire to find satisfaction in noncombustible products.
And I believe that our new VUSE innovations which are certainly aimed at delivering against the crux of their issue which is improving the satisfaction without messing around with tanks and open liquids et cetera.
And so we will be obviously primarily in the traditional channel but that is where people buy their tobacco products.
And we will certainly use marketing materials to talk about the differences in these new innovations versus cigalikes and encourage trial.
Obviously whenever you launch a new product encouraging trial will be part of that marketing plan.
And well keep you posted because of course we will be in lead market situations with these products and well be able to report how thats received.
And then as Andrew said earlier determining the timing and the right opportunity to expand that is something that will read along the way but we are enthusiastic that weve gone a long way to meet what is really the consumers dilemma which is more satisfaction in a product that could reduce the harm thats caused by combustibles.
Bonnie I would also just add that our consumer engagement capabilities are really second to none.
And the opportunity to get out and actually talk with adult tobacco consumers and vapors I think is really something that we look to leverage with some of these new innovations.
And certainly well be looking to do that with some of the VUSE products that are coming out as well.
Okay thats helpful.
And then I know there have been a lot questions on Newport but I just had maybe two quick questions.
I just wanted to again get a sense from you now that youve owned the brand for a few quarters.
Are you happy with the performance? I mean has it met or possibly exceeded your expectations? And then second you had mentioned a target for your EDLP program to represent around 70% of industry volume.
So could you give us a sense of where things are at right now with that program? And did you get the participation you were looking for? Sure Bonnie.
First on Newport we are delighted.
I mean that we saw that acceleration in the fourth quarter.
It gives us great confidence.
And we continue to see a lot of opportunity for Newport.
Second exactly - your memory is exactly correct and we are precisely on target with that contract universe.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Owen Bennett with Nomura.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Owen.
Good morning Owen.
And a couple of questions please.
Firstly lets focus on Newport.
So compared to Newport and NAS trends on Camel could seem a little bit subdued given the opportunities available.
I was just hoping you could provide some comments on Camel perhaps any headwinds you may be facing and how confident are you of growing share on Camel in the current year.
And then secondly with regards to debt repayment when are likely to see a benefit to the interest charge and what average rate can we expect for the year? Thanks very much.
Sure Owen.
Ill take the Camel question and I appreciate it.
You will remember in the fourth quarter that we had to take a couple of styles of Camel off the market.
And so you will see reflected in those shipments to retail if you will that was a double-whammy because when you take shipments back from retail they hit you as a negative.
So we are confident we are seeing a good path with Camel.
And we do believe we will continue to grow market-share.
And it is fair to say that the organization has been focused on the contract universe of course.
And Newport is certainly now the flagship of the portfolio.
But as these contracts bed-in across the country opportunities for Camel outside of its strong suit which was the West Coast we continue to be encouraged.
And I think we will be pleased with what we see from Camel this year.
I understand.
And Owen I would say as far as the debt when we will start to see the benefits on the reduced interest assuming we complete all of this its whenever we settle.
So I would say in the near-term assuming we complete the tender and redemption thats when the benefits will start to accrue.
As far as the rate going forward I really cant comment on that.
I think we have to wait until after the tender and redemption are completed.
And well have a better sense of exactly where that nets out and exactly what the rate is going forward.
And really the only other piece that I would add is just keep in mind we will be seeing some interest reduction.
But keep in mind that we also will be seeing the reduction of some of our operating income coming through on our international business as well.
So there is a bit of an offset this year.
But certainly we expect the interest to be a real positive for us going forward.
Cool.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Thank you.
Hey Matt.
Good morning.
Hi so I guess just two issues we havent touched on.
One just from an FDA perspective I assume there is probably not a lot incremental to say here but just wondering if there is any update you can give on the status of working through the issues with the NAS warning letter or the styles that you did take off the market for Camel and Pall Mall in the latter part of last year whether you have any visibility to when that might be resolved.
Matt as you know it really is our policy not to discuss open issues that were having.
But suffice it to say we are in the midst of constructive dialogue with the agency regarding those letters.
And we will continue to work to improve our submissions and certainly we are having dialogue to resolve the issue.
Okay.
Thanks Susan.
And then from a smokeless category standpoint youve continued to have a fairly strong 5% 6% volume growth in American Snuff.
Just curious what your expectations are for volume growth in the category.
We've seen sort of a 2% to 3% rate recently but perhaps with some of the cross-category issues subsiding is there any optimism around a bit of reacceleration there looking out to 2016? I think Matt we are modeling it and continue at 2.5%.
Thats what we have really seen.
And with - remember that about half of moist-snuff users also use combustibles or use vape and that they are really poly-users.
And if the macroeconomic factors stay the same I dont see any change to that 2.5%.
Great.
Thank you Susan.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Vivien Azer with Cowen.
Your line is now open.
Thank you for taking the follow-up.
As I was looking at the disclosure around the industry volume mix it strikes me that this is the first quarter in I think almost three years where weve seen premium not either gain or hold share.
So I dont know if this is like a one-quarter issue.
But weve been talking about the premiumization in the category fairly consistently.
So I was wondering if you could comment on that please.
Really I cant Vivian.
Weve been obviously closely tracking our portfolio.
Our portfolio is trading up.
We are now over 70% with premium and it is the first quarter of resetting contracts and Imperial is in and there have been some rack fillings.
And so I think I would give that a couple of quarters to settle in as we see what consumers do with the new merchandising results et cetera.
It really was a small change.
That makes perfect sense.
And then on the market share for your non-growth brand it does look like the market share declines east fairly steadily over the course of 2015.
How should we think about that for 2016? Well I think remember in 2015 of course we were supporting Winston and Salem and KOOL to a lesser extent for the Lorillard transaction and that divestiture to Imperial Tobacco.
And thats one way to think about Pall Mall.
That is the time when Pall Mall lost 0.3 of its share point.
In fact it has been dead flat for the following three quarters.
So I think as again this universe resets we will see how consumers respond to the very competitive offers that are out there with ourselves and ITG and Altria.
As we have seen in past years the brands that are not supported by a company are at risk or are usually stuffed into drive brands of somebody.
And so we have a couple of share points that are in that bucket and so do both of our competitors.
So I think we will see in this first-half how the marketing offers and the brand propositions are playing to look at what is going to happen to those brands that are not drive brands in anybodys portfolio.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I turn the conference back to Morris Moore.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
And this concludes todays conference.
You may now disconnect.