Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Radian's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Emily Riley Vice President of Financial Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian’s First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian’s financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors Section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today’s call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian’s Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; and Dave Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2010 Form 10-K.
This is also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
And thank you all for joining us.
Today I would like to first review the macroeconomic factors affecting our business and then highlight the few aspects of our financial performance in the quarter.
Next I will turn the call over to Bob to cover the details of our financial position.
Before we open the call to your questions I'll comment on recent legislation important to our business.
Many headlines last week focused on Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke's remarks on the scale of the economy.
While it pointed positively to moderate improvement in the general economy he also called out the housing market as a drain on growth.
He emphasized that the U.S.
economy grew at a sluggish 1.8% annualized rate in the first 3 months of the year while unemployment remained stubbornly high at 8.8%.
He called our nation's depressed housing market the primary pinpoint in our economic recovery.
Unfortunately the stagnant housing market clearly impacted our mortgage insurance results in the first quarter.
Despite encouraging trends over the past year including continued declines in our mortgage insurance delinquencies our ability to maintain a strong share of today's high quality mortgage insurance business and our progress in regaining share from the FHA the ongoing foreclosure issues and languishing delinquencies in late stages of default weighed heavily on our mortgage insurance business.
We have provided several new disclosures this quarter to help you better understand this effect on our delinquency portfolio.
Bob will provide more detail on these.
But the clearest illustration of our aging delinquency population may be found on webcast Slide 13 where you can see that loans at least 12 months past due now account for 52% of our delinquency portfolio.
To provide perspective on this number our percentage of loans in this late stage of delinquency in more normal times before the downturn was in the 10% to 20% range.
Yet as we have updated this chart for the past several quarters the percentage of loans in this category has continued to increase.
Turning to our first quarter financial results.
Earlier today we reported net income of $103 million or $0.77 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value gains of $319 million.
We saw this quarter how Radian spread widening impacted the fair value line significantly resulting in the realization of some of the positive book value impact that we have said we expect to occur over time.
As of March 31 2011 our book value per share was $7.31.
Our mortgage insurance provision for losses was $414 million versus $529 million last year.
Bob will explain the trends affecting this number in the first quarter.
However it is important to note that our mortgage insurance loss reserve was flat to the fourth quarter of 2010 at $3.5 billion.
This resulted in an increase to our reserve for primary default which now stands at $25 714 as shown on webcast Slide 14.
Uncertainty clearly remains regarding the final outcome of the delinquent loans in our portfolio particularly the oldest late-stage buckets.
Yet we believe that our loss reserves for default positions Radian well as these late-stage loans are ultimately resolved.
We have been encouraged by the administration's recent efforts to improve servicing practices with a focus on streamlining contact with borrowers and encouraging more successful modifications.
In recent weeks we have seen a slight increase in the number of claims received as servicers begin to resume portfolio proceedings following the robo-signing issues and foreclosure suspensions that began last year.
For 2011 we continue to expect these claims of approximately $1.7 billion.
The total number of primary delinquent loans decreased by 7% in the first quarter from the fourth quarter of last year which represented the fifth consecutive quarterly decline.
And in April we were encouraged by yet another decline in delinquent loans.
This represents the 16th straight month of progress in managing our legacy portfolio.
Our risk-to-capital ratio which is an important measure of Radian Guaranty's financial strength was 20.3:1.
Importantly we maintain sufficient liquidity at the holding company to contribute additional capital to our mortgage insurance business if needed.
The $2.6 billion of new mortgage insurance business we wrote in the quarter should be viewed in the context of a record low origination market as well as the seasonal effect of a traditionally weak first quarter.
Yet our NIW increased forward to $1.9 billion written a year ago and we successfully maintained our strong share of today's high-quality mortgage insurance business.
This business again consisted of loans with outstanding risk characteristics 100% prime credit quality and 81% with FICO scores of 740 or above.
We continue to make progress as an industry in recapturing market share from the FHA.
We estimate that the private mortgage insurance industry has doubled its market share penetration from the FHA's peak in fourth quarter 2009.
The price increase implemented by the FHA last month could also help our industry regain share and we're additionally encouraged by the changes in loan office compensation in April that eliminated the financial incentives for choosing an FHA loan over a conventional loan.
Finally it is important to note that Radian Asset our Financial Guaranty company continues to serve as the unique source of capital for mortgage insurance business.
Despite a challenging environment again for the Financial Guaranty industry excluding gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments Radian Asset was breakeven in the first quarter.
Consistent with our strategy of minimizing Radian's Financial Guaranty risk our net par outstanding was reduced by more than $1 billion in the first quarter which included the termination of our TruPs CDO with $85 million of exposure.
In addition a little over $2 billion of par exposure consisting of reinsurance and corporate CDOs was terminated in April with a slight positive impact to our statutory surplus.
During the first quarter we booked modest incremental losses on a handful of public finance and structured finance transactions including approximately $5.6 million in incremental reserves related to Jefferson County.
There was a continuation of generally stabilizing credit trends in the first quarter and we expect Radian Asset to pay another ordinary dividend to Radian Guaranty in June 2011 of $53 million.
This dividend payment has decreased slightly from previous expectations due to a reduction in our expected investment income.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
I'll be updating you on the P&amp;L activity and trends for the first quarter of 2011 and our financial position as of March 31 2011.
Our MI provision for losses remained at an elevated level of $414 million this quarter despite the continuing improvement in our overall delinquency.
To give you a better idea of exactly what comprises our incurred losses we have added disclosure this quarter on webcast Slide 12 which breaks down our incurred loss into its major components including: one the loss reserve on new defaults that arose during the quarter; two the reduction in reserves on loans that have cured or prepaid; three the net incremental reserve on existing defaults primarily driven by delinquency aging which typically requires additional reserve and by claims received for which we typically increase our gross reserves with a total potential claim payment; and four the incurred loss relating to the disposition of claims which includes denials and rescissions.
In an ideal world if our actual performance matches our assumption the incurred loss component other than the reserve on new default would zero out overtime.
But in this extremely uncertain environment these components have been volatile.
For example the fourth category of incurred losses relating to the disposition of claims has been impacted significantly by denials and rescissions including this quarter by a $70 million increase in our IBNR estimate for future overturn of denials and rescissions.
While new defaults have declined which is very positive cures have generously come from earlier default buckets while the older delinquent loans have mainly stayed delinquent or rolled to pending claims.
On webcast Slide 13 we have added significant loss reserve disclosure including the total reserves for each delinquent loan bucket along with our current expected roll rate by bucket on a gross basis and net of the expected denials and rescissions.
We hope this helps you better understand the composition of our loss reserve estimate.
As you can see our reserve estimate includes an expectation that many of these older delinquent loans will not ultimately be claimed and our borrower outreach efforts have appeared to support that general expectation.
However most of these loans have remained in the late-stage delinquency bucket and have not cured either naturally or by completing a modification.
We are working hard to proactively address these old delinquencies but it is a long and difficult process often on a loan-by-loan basis.
The dollar amounts of loss avoided on submitted claims related to denials and rescissions for the first quarter 2011 was approximately $152 million compared to $267 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
These figures are net of the overturns that occurred during the quarter which have increased significantly.
Claims paid in the first quarter were $365 million.
Excluding any potential commutation payments or captive termination we expect claims paid in the second quarter to be approximately $430 million.
And for 2011 we still believe that claims paid will be in the $1.7 billion range.
Premiums earned this quarter were positively impacted by a decline in ceded premiums due to the termination of most of our captive arrangements and a small impact this quarter from a premium refund accrual reduction relating to future rescission.
The overall premiums earned are up from the first quarter of 2010 but down from the fourth quarter when our refund accrual was reduced more significantly.
The change in fair value line was primarily impacted this quarter by a widening of Radian's own credit spread contributing to a net fair value gain on derivative instruments for the quarter of $244 million and a $75 million fair value gain in the gain on other financial instrument line.
The total of our March 31 2011 balance sheet amount related to our derivative exposures and consolidated transactions is now a net GAAP liability of approximately $639 million.
This is $111.5 million more than our current estimate of the net present value of credit loss payments of $527 million as shown on webcast Slide #8.
Our holding company cash resources at the end of 2011 are projected to be approximately $630 million after giving effect to the amounts we can redeem from our CPS Securities and subtracting all expected payments through 2011 including full repayment of our debt maturing in June 2011.
We may use some of this available liquidity to make a contribution from Radian Group to Radian Guaranty if necessary during 2011 in order to maintain a strong risk-to-capital position.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
for a regulatory update.
Thank you Bob.
Before we open the call to your questions.
I would like to briefly discuss the legislative issues important to Radian.
As many of you know the proposed rule for risk retention for residential mortgages was issued for comments.
The rule includes a definition for a qualified residential mortgage or QRM.
The comment period ends on June 10.
And while there's no set date for implementation the Dodd-Frank bill calls for its adoption one year after the final rules are published.
While the proposed definition specifically identifies a 20% down payment as a qualifying criteria as well as an exemption for FHA the draft also states that a guarantee provided by GSE while operating under conservatorship is exempt from any risk retention requirements.
The proposed definition has caused quite a bit of concern among a broad group in Washington and around the country.
Since research shows that 1/3 of our nation's homebuyers would be either adversely impacted or effectively shut out of the market if required to make the 20% down payment.
Various trade industry and consumer groups as well as both Republican and Democratic leaders at the House and Senate have all supported a lower down payment for deserving borrowers.
The regulators are specifically seeking comment on the possibility of expanding the QRM definition to include loans with a lower down payment that are protected by private mortgage insurance.
Teresa and I along with our industry peers have spent time on Capitol Hill to demonstrate the value of our products explaining that the presence of private mortgage insurance in fact ensures that the private sector has skin in the game thereby meeting the intent of the risk retention requirements.
As we work towards educating key decision makers regarding the unique role of private mortgage insurance in both expanding homeownership as well as protecting tax payers we anticipate that our customers will continue to originate conventional loans with private mortgage insurance.
In terms of GSE reform there have been several Congressional hearings on the proposed options for housing finance.
Studies have been issued and some legislation introduced.
During our visits on the Hill we continue to hear a resounding support for private capital in the overall housing finance reform efforts.
Obviously the FHA has already taken steps to decrease its risks and the ultimate risk to taxpayers by implementing its second price increase in less than a year.
While the QRM and GSE reform efforts have a relatively long road ahead we are encouraged by the bipartisan support for putting private capital at risk in a way that will protect taxpayers and expand homeownership.
Based on this sentiment we expect private mortgage insurance to continue to have a role in serving the needs of low down payment borrowers as the housing market recovers.
Before we take your questions let me summarize 4 important points.
First mortgage insurance delinquency trends are positive with 16 straight months of decline.
Second we believe our existing MI book of business as of March 31 contains an embedded value of $1.5 billion as shown on Slide 10 in our webcast presentation.
Third for Radian Radian Asset continues to serve as a unique source of capital for our mortgage insurance business.
The company was breakeven in the quarter and continues to reduce its risks while paying dividends to Radian Guaranty.
Fourth Radian's Mortgage Insurance business remains competitively well positioned given our risk to capital market share financial flexibility and reserve strength.
And now operator we would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
I was wondering if you could sort of looking at the aging of the portfolio and looking at sort of expected roll rates did you have a sense yet as to when it might sort of top out at the 12-plus month percentage? Doug I think what we're seeing is -- we're seeing a continued movement toward the 12 months but we're also seeing a slowdown in the new defaults reported.
So I think the percentage of loans in that late stage will likely stay high and perhaps go higher.
However we do expect the overall number of delinquent loans to decline.
So if that percentage were to go higher I mean would that lead to continual need for higher reserve for default in coming quarters? All things being equal.
On those loans all things being equal yes because those have a higher expectation of rolling to claim.
And I guess just on that I mean if you could compare sort of the inflows to new 12-plus months from the 4 to 11 versus what you expect to pay I mean should -- I mean are we at a point where the dollar or sort of the number of loans should start to decline? I'm sorry can you repeat that Doug? Yes.
I mean I guess if you were to look at the loans that are sort of rolling into the 12-plus months that's continued to age from the 4 to 11 bucket compared to the expected claims that you expect to pay.
Are we at a point where the total number of 12-plus-month loans can decline? We are seeing some cure activity in the 12-plus months and that has actually picked up recently a little bit.
It's still at a relatively low-level but we have seen it picked up.
So we do expect more cures to come from the 12-plus months overtime as well as the 4 to 11 as well.
And Doug as you know because it seems so well publicized one of the factors that compounds the uncertainty related to the reduction in the age bucket is eventually how the AGs come out and what the settlement is in terms of servicing.
And the sequential requirements going forward for services to exhaust potentially all modification possible of these and then go through layers of checks on the completeness and accuracy of their documentation before they can foreclose.
And while it is possible that that may result in some loans that otherwise would've gone into foreclosure not going into foreclosure we are in an environment of such uncertainty that we cannot predict that.
We have a question from Mike Grondahl with Northland Capital.
Two questions.
One could you just kind of give us your outlook for modifications going forward whether it's HAMP mods or other mods kind of what you're seeing there? And then maybe if you could just handicap the risks in your Financial Guaranty book compared to a year ago? And then lastly any plans for that Financial Guaranty shell that you bought at the end of last year? Mike this is Teresa.
I'll take the question on loan modification.
And we are continuing to see loan modifications come through the proprietary mods continue to be a much larger percentage of the mods that are coming through.
And what we anticipate is that we'll see some increase in modification activity.
But it's difficult to sort of really handicap what exactly that's going to look like.
The discussion that S.A.
was just having about what the services are going to be focused on the consent orders are essentially moving forward and they appear to be requiring a single point of contact for borrowers.
And as you may recall a lot of the complaints related to loan mods and whether loan mods went through effectively or happened was related to borrowers saying that they kept getting shuttled around to the servicing shops.
So we think with that one point of contact sort of a renewed focus on trying to see which loans can be modified.
We'll certainly be working with the servicers hand in hand to try to make as many of those happen as possible.
We believe that we'll see an increase there.
But we don't have any way right now of sort of knowing what that's going to look like.
And Mike on your FG Dave Beidler will answer the first part of your question then I will address the shell.
I believe Mike the first part of the question was if I had to handicap the portfolio's performance this year as opposed to a year ago and I would say that we have seen stabilizing trends in some of our most important credit classes including our corporate CDO portfolio and our TruPs portfolio.
And that would be the most important sort of handicap update I could give you at this point.
And Dave could you maybe just -- what do you mean by stabilizing trends? Just kind of help us understand that.
Well there have been a basically credit upgrade in the corporate CDO portfolio.
We didn't have any credit event in that portfolio this quarter at all.
And in the TruPs portfolio we have seen stabilization in most of our individual transaction in the underlying collateral.
And Mike in terms of the shell first of all we feel very positive that we have the shell that we did acquire the shell because it gives us the opportunity to explore different alternatives going forward.
We continue to look at various alternatives relating to the shell but most importantly awaiting the final outcome of S&amp;P's model based from which we can get some clarity on what it will take to get a rating from S&amp;P that will allow us to go forward with some of the alternatives we're exploring.
So far we -- based on the preliminary work we've done we've had some encouraging conversation with potential investors and potentially view that there may be opportunities for us based on conversations with many players who make the market and muni bonds.
But the S&amp;P clarity is essential before we can continue to explore alternatives.
We have a question from Matthew Howlett with Macquarie.
If I'm going to stay on the long-term default forecast you took the frequency up.
I mean was that entirely related to a lower embedded rescission rate going forward or was it just a combination of that and harsher sort of this role rates with the later stage delinquencies? It's not roll rates.
It's the rescission denial estimate and it's also just a composition.
So the fact that the inventory is aged more naturally we're going to have a higher roll rate attached to that.
It's not like we took the respective roll rate up.
Okay.
So it just more of shifting into that bucket? That's right.
And then getting back to the rescissions I mean on Slide #12 the $111 million with the claimed dispositions.
I mean could you just walk us through what goes on there? Is it just the lender pushes back on the rescission that goes into arbitration and you end up losing? Is that what ends up happening? No.
The claim disposition lines got a bunch of stuff in it.
So it's going to have changes in our rescission denial estimates in there.
It's going to have this impact from the estimate of future overturns.
So it's really the changes in the balance sheet.
The actual realization is going to -- is not going to be there.
It's also going to be the difference between the reserve on the claims we pay versus what the actual reserve was right before we pay it.
So it's really the claims that have been either paid and/or related to denials and rescissions.
So the most prominent component of that this quarter was the denials and rescissions.
And yes we do have instances where there is push back and what we call rebuttal and we'll go through it.
And most often that won't change the status.
But sometimes if new information is provided it would potentially change the status where we would either reinstate the loan or pay the client.
Okay.
I mean is there any clarity that you can give us going forward on that line? Did it change any of your -- I mean is that just going to be a volatile line going forward or could it would work in some cases for you in some quarters? Certainly it could.
Now we have attempted to capture the future.
This is something that has almost no history to it.
And the changes in the past year have been -- or the couple of years have really been very substantial.
So for 2009 we increased our rescission estimate dramatically in 2010 we cut it back some.
So yes it's kind of volatile because there is very little history and it is changing quickly.
But we always try to capture the future as best we can.
And again we believe we have captured the estimate for future denials and rescissions.
Hopefully we have done it accurately but it's certainly subject to the uncertainty.
Okay.
That's it.
And then just one last question.
On the risk-to-capital I think you guys are second best in the industry in terms of risk to statutory capital.
Some of your peers seem perfectly comfortable with going above the 25 to 1 getting the -- they received the waivers in the majority of the states.
You guys I think you said in the call you're interested in dividing down some cash from the holding company to stay below 25.
Why do you see the urgency is to gain market share? Could the cash be used to do something else if you just don't mind going over 25 and what if you end up -- if that ends up being the case given your peers that really hasn't impacted them? All of this said is that we continue to have the flexibility.
In the event we deem it necessary to contribute capital to Radian Guaranty.
We haven't concluded whether we will and what ratio we will maintain and what the drivers of that would be.
Clearly the driver of that we focus on most is maintaining a strong competitor position to the extent that a strong competitive position translates into the opportunity to do business in a stronger fashion with our customers.
And we will keep monitoring it and we'll keep retaining the flexibility and we will act as necessary.
And while we haven't concluded I will proceed with this.
Clearly the fact that our peers have gone above 25 to 1 gives us more room to play.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Nat Otis with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I guess first maybe following up on that -- on those rebuttals.
Is there any way to give a little more color -- are you talking about more people say coming that you've had a denial on and they're coming back with the paperwork or is it rescission-related? Is there any color that you can give on what type of circumstances might be more prevalent in when the lenders and services are coming back to you? Sure.
This is Teresa Nat.
Let me just split those in sort of 2 buckets.
One is the denials and often the denials are related to an inability to provide documentation upfront in order to protect the claim and allow us to move forward with reviewing it.
And so in that case we usually notify the servicer to try to get that documentation in.
But sometimes after we've given them a great deal of time to do that and we actually send them a notice that it's been denied we may get after that the actual documentation and then we have to reinstate that loan.
And then we then go through the process of looking at that claim.
And it could subsequently -- but it could be subsequently rescinded.
So that -- just to sort of put that in perspective.
Separately on the rescissions and those are where we've decided to rescind the coverage based on our review of the loan and the loan file.
And in those cases that's where we really get what we talked about in terms of rebuttals where someone essentially refutes our ground for the rescission.
And then we have a separate group here that looks at those rebuttals to determine whether or not there's any validity.
Those are sort of all over the board.
Some lenders just rebut as a normal course without really providing any new information.
And others have actually brought new information to the table that makes a difference in our decision.
But as Bob said the rate of -- most of those decisions are not overturned.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And is there any -- are there any trends that you're seeing in that kind of increase in those rebuttals and things like that? Is there anything you can point out that the servicers are doing different or doing more often now than in the past? I think that over the last probably 2 to maybe 3 quarters we've seen a higher level of rebuttals coming in as some of the servicers have sort of staffed up in those areas to try to look at those rescissions as they come in.
So we have seen sort of a heightened level of activity there but it hasn't changed the return rate considerably.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it could be very easily staffing driven certainly more coming in.
But if you're not seeing any changes down the road there might not necessarily be that much of a difference? Yes.
I mean obviously we're looking at these on an individual loan or claim basis.
But yes at this point while we have a higher number we're not seeing or at least seeing any trends that will lead us to believe there's any sort of major changes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just -- I think you talked about premiums that there were some accrual related to rescission and denial activity.
Did you give a number on that for the quarter? No I didn't give it.
I can give it to you off-line but I just gave a directional movement.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you talked about claims going up a little bit as of late in the couple of weeks.
Is that -- would you say that's a direct result of maybe that servicer settlement and people getting more comfortable with things going forward or anything else there? Yes I wouldn't necessarily say it was the servicer’s settlement yet because I think they're still just sort of getting that in place.
I do think that with all of the robo-signing and other foreclosure issues as you saw a lot of the major servicers took a pause to relook at what was in their pipeline to relook at their processes and procedures to make sure they had the right procedures going forward.
And we saw some sort of slowdown in what was being sent to foreclosure.
And I think we started to see that pick up earlier this year and we're starting to see some of those come through at this point.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Very helpful.
We have a question from Donna Halverstadt with Goldman Sachs.
I have 2 questions and they are both follow-ups.
The first question I wanted to follow up on the competitive positioning response you gave to the risk-to-capital question.
And two-part follow-up one do you expect that at some point in the near future the GSEs might actually tighten up a bit on the requirements that they have for which MIs there kind of wrap the loans that go into them? And secondly do you get the sense that when the lenders are allocating loans across the MIs that they are starting to differentiate a bit more based on factors like risk to cap? Regarding the GSEs I really don't have much color.
Teresa do you...
Yes.
I would say that the GSEs have been talking about reviving the MI eligibility requirements for quite some time now.
And so it's hard to say whether they'll move forward with that or how they will look and whether they'll have any impact in terms of the group of MIs that are currently approved.
So I think we really don't know enough about that at this point.
In terms of the second aspect we do believe that some of the major lenders who during the last couple of years when there was an increased uncertainty surrounding the MIs had decided to manage their risk of doing business with MIs by diversifying their business among a number of mortgage insurance players.
Some of them may be looking for operational reasons to narrow the number of mortgage insurance companies with whom they do business.
Indeed some of them are in the process and have solicited bids to limit the number of MI companies they do business with.
And while there is no -- whether there's a direct relationship between risk to capital they certainly -- since they have the flexibility they wanted to be strongly positioned.
Okay.
And the other follow up I had relates to the discussion related to an increase in overturns and building that into your reserves.
Based on what Teresa said it sounds like at this point that process is more related to rebuttals i.e.
discussions.
Or has that activity actually resulted in more of that discussion going to arbitration or more of that discussion actually going to lawsuits? Well yes.
I mean that's been sort of just an internal process that we've had with those lenders.
We haven't had any arbitrations at this point or any sort of material litigation.
So it's been our own internal process which we put in place quite some time ago.
We have a question from Scott Frost with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to go over some of your arguments for regulators with respect to the relevance of private mortgage insurance.
It seems that what they're saying is that they're more interested in preventing defaults in the first place in homeownership.
And correct me if I'm wrong but the idea behind TMI is that you increase homeownership and the additional credit costs that may occur are more than offset by the further goal of homeownership.
Are your arguments along the lines of disputing their seeming contention that you don't mitigate defaults? Or is it that you'll -- if you keep the current rule for QRMs you're going to sort of slow the housing recovery and the housing market down? I think it's really both.
I think that we believe as an industry that will have provided data that show that if you compare loans that were originated that were less than 20% down and they were loans that had MI versus loans that didn't have MI that there was a much better performance rate on those loans or a lower risk factor over default rate on those loans.
In addition when you couple that with the cure rate which is also higher on MI insured loans it will be that we can show that there is an improvement in frequency but also very importantly on severity.
So when we're talking about protecting the tax payer protecting the investor in the mortgage securities or the mortgage loans it also reduces their loss.
So we're focused on sort of both of those I think not only is the MI industry but also the mortgage banking industry the realtors the home builders and many of the consumer group are also concerned about your other point which is what this would do to the overall housing industry and the economy.
And they are both a huge concern that this would lock out a significant number of homebuyers that are in fact credit worthy and homebuyers that we've been lending to over the last 2 1/2 years very successfully.
And that we also were lending to very successfully before the recent crisis.
Okay.
So just to reiterate you're saying that loans with lower down payments that include private mortgage insurance you're saying that there is a frequency of default mitigation I guess effect by using that? And that would lower default frequency as opposed to what the regulators seem to be saying which is it doesn't really have that much of an effect on default frequency.
Is that accurate? Yes.
I think that's right.
And I think if you look at what the regulators focused on they were essentially trying to compare loans with less than a 20% down payment with loans with more than a 20% down payment which you would expect to have a lower frequency anyway.
So the irony is that if you actually look at it from an investor point of view the loans that have a 20% down payment have less protection if you will from investors than a loan with say a 5% down payment with MI which actually covers the investor down to about an effective 67% LTV.
So I think a lot of it is educational in terms of helping the regulators understand this.
And we've also spent a lot of time on the Hill.
There have been a number of members of Congress sent letters to the regulators that continuing to weigh in about legislative intent.
When you talk to some of the folks who are involved in drafting the QRM they say we're more focused on the risk of loss to the investor versus to this concept of frequency.
It's also very clear that not all agencies involved in the initial proposed regulation agree though we believe that there are -- there's an agency or more than an agency who certainly have a greater appreciation of our perspective.
We have a question from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
I was hoping you could help put in context how long the reserves you're expected -- the expected percentage that you expect to go to claim? Just help us think about that to get comfortable with the fact that those are the right numbers.
Well obviously we believe that the longer a loan stays in delinquency and moves toward being an older loan it has a higher chance of going to claim.
The one minus -- the roll rates would be the expected cure rates or now what we say the expected rates for which loans will not be claimed.
And there are several ways for that to happen.
Natural cures are the most prominent.
And those are people that just find a way to make their payments catch up and become current on their loan.
The second which is also very prominent is modification.
And certainly in this environment we believe that many of our delinquent loans are either in modification programs already or are candidates to be in modification programs.
So certainly we expect significant mods over time in the future.
And then the third one which I think is more recent is relating to loans that will not be foreclosures for reasons of documentation or servicing or other items which is very hard to quantify at this time but we have heard a lot of information about that from lenders from servicers from others relating to loans that have been in delinquency for a long time.
But there's a reason they haven't gone to foreclosure because they lack the necessary either documentation or title or other means to become appropriate foreclosures.
We have a question from Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Just to follow up on that a little bit.
Looking on Page 13 Bob is it possible to give me the historical framework around sort of claim rates per bucket where are we today versus where it has been historically? We haven't done that certainly directionally Steve.
The current expected low rates are higher than historic levels.
I don't think there's any secret about that.
I was going to say they're there for a reason because there's very little equity if any in the homes.
So home prices have come down a lot which certainly has helped determine that the lot of the loans are from vintages that were poorly underwritten.
So there's a reason why they're higher.
Where they will come out we're doing our best to project it but there's a lot of uncertainty as we said many many times.
Yes for sure.
Any way to sort of quantify or sort of give a degree of magnitude of where expected claim rates are today versus where they were in one of the typical cycles? Are we talking about a few hundred basis points higher? Are we talking multiples higher? I think it's more the latter.
But we don't have the exact numbers.
And it depends on what history you're looking at and all that.
So I think it's hard to pinpoint but I think it's safe to say that they're higher than historical average.
Our final question comes from Nat Otis with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Two quick follow-ups.
One just any color on what buckets the paid claims are coming from.
Are they all coming from that 12 month and beyond bucket or is it kind of equally throughout? Most of the paid claims in any quarter are going to come from the oldest bucket.
There are occasions where we do pay claims from the earlier bucket but it's a very small amount.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly you had a little bit of commentary on Jefferson County.
They were certainly hit by the tornadoes.
Does the impact of the tornadoes and the impact on the local economy is there anything that -- color you might provide on what you're thinking about that going forward with respect to your exposure? We're of course mindful of the fact that they're in the eye of the storm so to speak.
But with respect to the deals specifically we don't believe at this point that the storm had a big impact on that transaction.
We increased our reserve a little bit as we disclosed.
And that has more to do with the actions of the receiver thus far and the fact that we think there's a little bit greater possibility that bankruptcy is an option that the county might pursue.
But that's still a very fluid situation.
I would now like to turn the conference over to S.A.
Ibrahim for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And I'd like to thank everybody for participating on our call and see you next quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Emily Riley Vice President of Financial Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investor section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today’s call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian’s Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce-Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2010 Form 10-K and our first quarter 2011 Form 10-Q.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
And thank you all for joining us.
Today I would like to begin by commenting on our second quarter results.
Highlighting several trends affecting the mortgage insurance industry and our company.
And then providing a brief legislative update before turning the call over to Bob to cover the details of our financial results.
Following Bob's remarks I'll outline our company's most important priorities before we open the call to your questions.
First we are encouraged with the direction of Radian's second quarter results.
Clearly there's still room for improvement as we faced the continued challenges and uncertainties in the business as well as in the economic and regulatory environment.
Before we focus on our results it's important to note that we believe our capital and liquidity positions provide a competitive advantage for Radian.
Our risk-to-capital ratio which is an important measure of Radian Guaranty's financial strength for our stakeholders regulators and customers improved to 19.8:1 as of June 30.
Radian's risk-to-capital ratio is among the strongest in our industry.
Additionally we maintained financial flexibility at the holding company to further support this ratio if needed.
As we do each quarter we have updated our projections for the embedded value we believe is contained in our mortgage insurance business.
While the projected expense declined this quarter based on updated assumptions for an even more prolonged economic recovery period we believe that there is $1.2 billion in embedded value in our mortgage insurance portfolio.
This means that while we cannot predict exactly when we do expect Radian to return to profitability at some point in the future.
Bob will provide more detail of the various complements that illustrate the compelling value proposition for Radian.
Now turning to our second quarter results.
Earlier today we reported net income of $137 million or $1.03 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value gains of $194 million.
We saw again this quarter how Radian's spread widening impacted the fair value line resulting in the realization of some of the positive book value impact that we have said we expect to occur over time.
At June 30 our book value per share increased to $8.48.
Our mortgage insurance provision for losses was $270 million versus $414 million last quarter and $424 million a year ago.
Bob will explain the main drivers of the reduction in our provision in the quarter.
Our mortgage insurance loss reserve was $3.3 billion as of June 30 a decrease from $3.5 billion last quarter and $3.7 billion a year ago.
Our reserve for primary default was $25 334 essentially flat through last quarter and up substantially from $22 957 a year ago.
You may find these details on the webcast Slide 14.
For the sixth straight quarter Radian's total number of primary delinquent loans declined.
As you can see on Slide 18 the total number of delinquent loans decreased 5% in the second quarter from the first quarter of the year.
Additionally July delinquencies again declined slightly.
You can also see on Slide 13 that the majority of our delinquent loans remain in late stages of delinquency which we believe is the result of continued foreclosure and servicing delays.
While our overall composition improved the proportion of loans in the latest stage of delinquency remained essentially flat from previous quarter.
We also saw some momentum in loss mitigation results in the quarter.
In addition loan modifications accounted for more than 4 100 loans or 21% of primary cures in the second quarter compared to more than 3 600 loans or 17% of primary cures in the first quarter.
Turning to new business the $2.3 billion of new insurance we wrote translated into an estimated market share between 18% and 19%.
New insurance written in the quarter reflects a record low origination market as well as the impact of declines in volume from certain customers early in the quarter which was driven by a loss mitigation activity.
Importantly however we were successful in growing NIW over the past 2 months and wrote in excess of $1 billion in new businesses in July.
Our team signed on more than 70 new customers in the second quarter.
And we have seen new demand from lenders this year for our training programs particularly those that illustrate the benefits of a conventional versus FHA loan.
In addition pricing changes and a new streamline underwriting process that we announced in the second quarter were greeted with enthusiasm by our customers and will enable us to compete better against the FHA.
Our NIW for the first 6 months of the year increased to $4.9 billion over the $4.6 billion written in the first 6 months of 2010.
And the business written in the second quarter again consisted of loans with outstanding risk characteristics 100% prime credit quality and 81% with FICO scores of 740 or above.
We have continued to make progress as an industry in recapturing market share from the FHA with private MI market penetration estimated to be above 6% in June.
This represents a meaningful increase in industry penetration over the last year and we expect to continue gaining share as a result of the FHA pricing implemented in April.
Turning to Financial Guaranty.
Radian asset continues to serve as the unique source of capital for MI.
Despite a challenging environment for the industry Radian Asset was again profitable on an operating basis in the second quarter.
There was a continuation of generally stabilizing credit trends in the quarter and Radian Asset paid another ordinary dividend of $53 million to Radian Guaranty in June.
In addition the worst-performing TruPs CDO in our portfolio cured in July.
Also in June after receiving the approval from the New York Insurance Department we successfully completed the acquisition of MIAC the Financial Guaranty shell company we had agreed to purchase in February.
As you know that MIAC purchased is consistent with our goal of reducing non-core risk to help eliminate uncertainty while maximizing the ultimate capital available to Radian Guaranty.
We are now working to evaluate the potential viability of MIAC as a newly capitalized municipal bond insurer.
Turning to activities on Capitol Hill the comment period on the proposed rule for risk retention for residential mortgages ended yesterday.
Both Radian and our industry-trade association MICA provided comments on the proposed QRM definition.
Radian also sponsored a University of Maryland research paper that concluded that low down-payment loans which are prudently underwritten and protected by private mortgage insurance should be considered a QRM.
We are encouraged by the support of low down-payment mortgage lending from more than 300 legislators as well as from community housing and other consumer groups.
We feel this support for MI is also consistent with the government stated goal of reducing its role in housing.
In terms of GSE reform there have been several congressional hearings on the proposed options for housing finance and legislation has been introduced.
We expect that the discussions around GSE reform will linger past the 2012 election.
However we continue to hearing resounding support for the increased role of private capital in overall housing finance reform efforts on Capitol Hill.
While the QRM and GSE reform efforts have a relatively long road ahead we are encouraged by the bipartisan support for putting private capital at risk in a way that both protects tax payers and expands homeownership.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.
A.
I will be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the second quarter of 2011 and our financial position as of June 30 2011.
The MI provision for losses was $270 million this quarter compared to $414 million in the first quarter.
There are 2 principal reasons for this improvement: First there was a relative improvement in the composition of delinquent loans; and second we did not have a significant increase in IBNR associated with the overturns of denials and rescissions like we had last quarter.
The breakdown of our incurred losses which is disclosed on webcast Slide 12 shows: One the loss reserves on new defaults that arose during the quarter; two the reduction of reserves on loans that have cured or prepaid; three the net incremental reserve on defaults existing at the beginning of the quarter; and four the incurred loss relating to the disposition of claims which includes actual denials and rescissions.
As we said last quarter in an ideal world in which our actual performance matches our assumptions the incurred loss components other than the reserve on new default would 0 out over time.
While there still were incurred losses during the quarter resulting from the composition change within our delinquencies this impact was smaller than in the first quarter.
Although overall cures were down a higher percentage of cures in last quarter came from the 12-month-plus bucket.
Also more delinquent loans remained in their existing status this quarter by either making payments or remaining in the 12-month-plus bucket and thereby did not require incremental reserve.
In terms of cures in the quarter for loans that were 2 to 3 months delinquent as of March 31 25.7% cured during the second quarter.
Of loans 4 to 11 months delinquent 11.5% cured.
And of loans 12 months and greater but not pending claims 4.5% cured.
In addition another 16.6% of Radian's delinquent loans that were not reported as being in the modification program reported at least one monthly payment made during the quarter but did not fully cure.
When thinking about future cures we believe that the majority will come from modification or loans where borrowers have some wherewithal and inclination to pay and have demonstrated this by making some kind of payment.
On webcast Slide 13 you see the disclosure we introduced last quarter including the total reserves for each delinquent loan bucket along with our current expected roll rates by bucket on a gross basis and net of expected denials and rescissions.
Both gross and net roll rates were essentially unchanged from last quarter.
The total amount of loss avoided on submitted claims related to denials and rescissions for the second quarter 2011 increased to approximately $193 million compared to $152 million in the first quarter of 2011.
These figures are net of the overturn that occurred during the quarter.
The amount in our balance sheet representing future expected denials and rescissions now stands at approximately $650 million before considering our IBNR offset for future overturn.
Loss mitigation efforts remain a significant priority at Radian.
We believe that such efforts which include denial and rescission will continue at an elevated level.
Claims paid in the second quarter were $513 million which includes $54 million of commutation payment.
We expect that this quarter's claims paid represents a peak and that claims paid will generally trend down slowly from here.
We expect paid claims in the third quarter to be a little over $400 million and for 2011 we still believe that claims paid will be in the $1.7 billion range.
The improvement in our risk-to-capital ratio which is estimated to be 19.8:1 is a relative strength for Radian.
In addition to the lower incurred loss number which helped this quarter; a reduction of risk in force; statutory income at Radian Asset; the completion of an intercompany reinsurance agreement between Radian Guaranty and a related subsidiary in the quarter; and the sales of certain investments which produced statutory gains all contributed to the improvement in our ratio.
The latest dividend of $53.4 million from Radian Asset to Radian Guaranty was paid on June 30.
We expect to continue to pay dividends in 2012 and 2013 although at this time these dividends are projected to be below this year's level.
We continue to see a reduction of exposure and a relatively stable credit performance at Radian Asset.
We also continue to explore opportunities to reduce our exposure more quickly than normal runoff including the potential use of the shell financial guarantor that we purchased.
Much like what occurred in the first quarter the change in fair value line was primarily impacted this quarter by a continued widening of Radian's own credit spread contributing to a net fair value gain on derivative instruments for the quarter of $189 million.
The total of our June 30 2011 balance sheet amounts related to our derivative exposures and consolidated transactions is now down to a net cap liability that is approximately $27 million less than our current estimate of net present value of credit loss payments as we show on webcast Slide 8.
This means that if our projections are accurate book value will be reduced over time by approximately $0.20 per share.
As has been our experience the fair value liability can be volatile over the course of the life of the transaction.
We fully repaid $116 million of debt that matured in June 2011.
Our holding company cash resources at the end of 2011 are still projected to be approximately $630 million after giving effect to the amounts we can redeem from our CPS securities and subtracting the October intercompany tax payment which is the only remaining material 2011 obligation.
We may use some of these available liquidity to make a contribution from Radian Group to our MI subsidiaries if necessary in the future in order to strengthen our capital position.
Our next material holding company obligation will be the repayment of $250 million of debt in 2013.
We believe that Radian remains a compelling value opportunity.
Our book value as of June 30 is $8.48.
As I previously mentioned we now believe that the present value of future credit losses on our fair valued exposures will be approximately $0.20 per share higher than our current net liability.
So we expect that amount to come off our current book value over time.
We have a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset of $5.78 per share.
While realizing this asset is subject to our return to a period of sustained profitability it presents potential upside.
We also believe there is a pre-tax embedded value in our MI book which we estimate to be $1.2 billion as of June 30.
This number has fallen recently due to an even more prolonged economic recovery that is now built into our assumptions about future losses.
And the number is very sensitive to the ultimate frequency of losses and could potentially be eliminated if our actual frequency is higher than anticipated.
However at this time it represents our best estimate of future value embedded in our current book of business.
We also believe we are writing profitable business.
A very rough estimate of the after-tax value produced by $1 billion of new insurance written today based on our current pricing and quality is approximately $7.5 million.
So a run rate of $10 billion annually would likely produce incremental future value of approximately $75 million.
Lastly our Financial Guaranty business has future and premiums that could represent upside that those amounts are greater than future losses and expenses.
The sum of all these items represents what we believe is our intrinsic value.
And while all of our assumptions are dependent on the macroeconomic development and other risks and uncertainties we hope this clearly lays out the potential future value that we believe Radian offers particularly if new insurance written volume is stronger over time.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.
A.
Thank you Bob.
Finally I would like to take a few minutes to review the key priorities for our businesses as Radian moves forward.
For our Mortgage Insurance business the priorities are: One to write as much new business as we can and to be positioned to gain from competitor pull back in the near term as well as some market recovery in the future; two to diligently focus on loss mitigation by quickly paying deserving claims while enforcing our rights on each fully underwritten fraudulent or negligently serviced loan; three to participate in the regulatory and legislative debates on the future of housing finance with the goal of ensuring a favorable outcome for mortgage insurance and importantly for first time and low-to-moderate income borrowers; four to rationalize our expenses in light of the weak mortgage origination forecasts; and five to be actively engaged and open-minded about opportunities to create shareholder value through any restructuring or reshaping of the mortgage finance and mortgage insurance industry.
The priorities for our Financial Guaranty business are: One to provide capital support to our mortgage insurance business; two to diligently manage our existing risk exposure while pursuing commutations and other exposure reduction opportunity; and three to develop evaluate and if appropriate pursue new business solutions that can further reduce exposure and create shareholder value.
And now operator we would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Steve Stelmach from FBR.
On the IBNR Bob can you just give us a little bit more color on the volatility quarter-over-quarter? And if there's any sort of comfort that we can get that that volatility is going to be reduced over time potentially? Anything there would be a little bit helpful.
Sure.
Last quarter what we saw was this phenomenon on overturns of denials and rescissions.
And that was really new.
We have never had that happen in the past.
We had a small IBNR up for that but we really had to increase it in the first quarter.
What we found in the second quarter was that the IBNR on the balance sheet is okay and there were really no adjustments to it so we were comfortable.
Can we limit future volatility? That's difficult.
But I think in terms of this particular item we are comfortable with it right now.
Yes.
I get the point being as the overturn you're not going to be surprised by overturns again.
If there's a volatility in IBNR it'll be because of something else but not this specific issue is that a fair assumption? No I don't think there'll be volatility in IBNR unless we get a real unexpected situation in terms of overturns.
Okay.
And then on the valuation allowance is $5 a little bit over $5 a share what do you guys need to generate in terms of EPS to realize that full $5? Well there's no real formula as to exactly when it turns around.
It's really a judgment based on return to sustained profitability.
So if we really feel like we have visibility on that and confidence in that conceivably it could turn around.
But the number -- the actual realization of that number will depend on producing enough profit to generate that kind of tax effect.
Okay.
And then just last question.
On reserve per delinquent loan obviously there's been some variability within the industry.
Could you give us a little bit of color on why you feel good about your current reserve for delinquent loans? Perhaps maybe some of the differences between your book and others that may attribute to the difference? We're always doing our best to estimate the best reserve for default we can.
We do feel comfortable with it.
Currently obviously there are going to be things impacting it in the future.
The roll rates are really the big item that we're doing our best to estimate but they're going to be subject to the macroeconomic situation as well as some of the servicing issues et cetera.
So that's going to be -- it's going to play out over time but we are comfortable with our number and we do our best.
In terms of the differences I think all of the companies are doing their best to estimate a very difficult number to estimate.
And we're just going to keep every quarter learning as much as we can.
And we do adjust when we see things that need adjusting.
We adjust as quickly as possible and put the best number out there.
Our next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
I was hoping you could help by explaining a little bit more about that reinsurance contract that you entered into and how that impacted the capital at the MI subsidiary? Yes.
I mean it's an excess of loss reinsurance agreement.
It's been done before in our industry and by us.
So it does take some risk away from Radian Guaranty.
It's an arms-length transaction so premium is transferred on an arms-length basis.
It is risk transfer for accounting purposes and statutory purposes so it's not a way out of the money catastrophic kind of situation it's a real risk transfer at appropriate premium.
It's known about by the insurance departments and it's a very arms-length kind of transaction.
Does that impact any of the parent company's liquidity to have that transaction? No.
It's an intercompany between insurance company.
And then just on switching topics to the QRM.
What's your expectation now that we're past the common period? What should we expect from a timeline going forward from here? Hi it's Teresa Bryce-Bazemore.
I think at this juncture is too early for us to really come up with a date and we haven't heard any projected dates yet.
As you may know the comments were due yesterday by the end of the business day.
And we submitted comments at that time.
And right now we are expecting that the regulators probably have been deluged with comments.
So their process is to go through all of them and then to sort of revisit their rule and come up with a final rule.
The -- under Dodd-Frank the rule once it's published as a final rule would be effective a year later.
But at this juncture it's too early.
We haven't heard any sort of view from the agencies on what they think that timeline is.
Is there any standard practice as to how long it generally takes or these things all vary? They all vary.
And a lot of it is based on sort of on how many comments and what the content of the comments are.
And obviously this is a pretty controversial rule with members of Congress who actually passed the law saying that the proposed rule is not consistent with legislative intent.
Our next question will come from the line of Donna Halverstadt with Goldman Sachs.
My question's focused on the reserves and the reinsurance that have already been asked but let me ask a follow-up.
You listed the items that positively impacted your risk-to-capital ratio and in terms of contribution to that improvement was the intercompany reinsurance a big contributor? And if so how much more capacity do you have to do more of that in the future? Things that impact capital are bigger contributors on sort of a net-net basis.
But the intercompany reinsurance impacts the risk which is obviously a bigger number.
So I would say all of the items that I mentioned helped and impacted the risk of capital.
None of them in a very dramatic way they all kind of contributed.
There may be capacity to do more of that.
That's something that we work through with the insurance department.
It depends on the capital levels at the subsidiary which we're currently very comfortable with.
I wouldn't expect material amounts of additional reinsurance in the future but there could be some and it's something that we could use maybe to a lesser extent in the future.
Okay.
And another thing I was wondering about to get to the interplay between opco capital and the holdco resources.
In 2010 Radian Group downstream $423 million of capital support to subs some to CMAC Texas some to Radian Guaranty.
If $423 million was the number in 2010 can you give us some numerical kind of rough expectations on what you think the number will be for 2011? Well we don't know what the number will be.
It hasn't been -- it's been very very insignificant so far this year.
The smaller subs and the contributions there are dependent on minimum surplus and things like that.
I think we've said we don't expect them to be material but there could be some smaller ones.
In terms of Radian Guaranty I think we're going to have to see how that plays out.
So far we haven't -- it hasn't been necessary but we keep saying and we mean that the money at the holding company is there to support the MI business if necessary.
So we don't have a projection at this point but we'll have to see how that plays out.
Okay.
And then the last question I wanted to ask S.
A.
had made a comment about being open-minded about opportunities for shareholder value around any reshaping of the MI industry and a couple of other folks have mentioned in passing industry consolidation.
I was wondering if you could give us any sort of general color about what sorts of discussions are occurring amongst industry participants with respect to a reshaping of the industry? Donna as you know very well I can't comment on anything in the way of discussions that may be occurring or not occurring.
All I can tell you that we at Radian have demonstrated in the past our open-mindedness and we believe we are strongly positioned financially to participate in those opportunities as they may come up in the industry if they make sense for our shareholders.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays Capital.
First I just have one more follow-up on the risk of capital issue.
Bob how much more room is there to add to capital through harvesting investment gains like you did this quarter? Mark we have gains in the portfolio that we haven't harvested yet.
And obviously that -- in the future that's going to depend on where rates go as well and the value.
It's something we've done in the past.
We could do it in the future.
I wouldn't say there are material further amounts but if it makes sense and we have the desire we can do some more of that.
Next question just interested in getting an update on the trends you're seeing in modification particularly around frequency and also the types that are occurring whether you're seeing more principal forgiveness? This is Teresa.
I mean I think that what we're seeing is continued volume coming through on modifications although it's very difficult on the private side to really know what's coming through in sort of the way of private modifications.
What we haven't seen -- we've seen a lot reported on principal forgiveness but we haven't seen a lot in terms of what we've actually seen come through with respect to principal forgiveness.
And the next question is for S.
A.
Has the recapturing of FHA volume -- has it so far been slower than you would've expected? I mean I think when we do the analysis it looks like MI is a superior execution in almost any loan type yet it's been somewhat slow to recapture shares.
What is it that's causing brokers to continue to choose FHA? It has been slower than we would have liked to see it driven by 2 factors the larger one of which is the fact that every time the FHA pricing has improved and created an advantage over conventional versus FHA execution the GSEs have in some cases added additional delivery fees negating or significantly reducing the advantage of the FHA execution.
And the other issue is there's a lot of originators out there who need to be retrained in originating conventional loans versus FHA loans which has been a big area of focus at Radian.
We've had several campaigns and a lot of our focus has been on training originators to originate conventional loans again.
Okay.
And then last question.
You mentioned the July volumes was a fair amount.
Is that indicative of increased activity in the market? Or you think it's more of a market share gain on your part? It is both.
We continue to place a lot of emphasis on our sales and customer relations.
We've recruited strong sales talent and are opening to the -- now open to doing more as it becomes available.
We've seen -- we've won more business from existing customers.
We continue to sign up new customers.
In terms of market share going forward calculation of market share has already become very difficult with 1 large participant in MICA no longer being in MICA.
So market share calculations which were always an estimate are going to become even more complicated going forward.
But looking at it from NIW terms we are pleased with what we wrote in July and July and the uptick we saw.
Sorry just one more follow-up.
Are you seeing any signs that certain originators may be pulling away from some of the weaker players in the industry? Teresa do you want to answer that? Well we're starting to see a little bit of that but we think that could escalate obviously.
But we're just starting to see that.
Obviously we are very focused on the fact that we have a very strong risk of capital competitively and we think we're well positioned to compete.
And so our salespeople are very aggressively going out and looking to increase our share with existing customers in addition to having a business development team that's successfully bringing on new customers and very importantly converting those new customers to producing new customers.
Our next question will come from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
LLC</strong> On the net projected premium for the MI book it decreased about $300 million this quarter and you gave us the guidance that that was due to a prolonged economic recovery.
Could you just give us the high-level assumptions that changed in your model? Yes I mean I think we are expecting a recovery later.
So we're kind of running out the new defaults at the level that they've been happening recently so we have no improvement to that.
We lengthen that out so the improvement starts later and then the time over which it returns to normal is also longer.
We try to be consistent with economy.com and their projections in terms of the economic recovery so that's really where our sort of macro forecast is coming front.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then could you give us kind of a ballpark lifetime claims rate you're expecting for the 2009 to 2011 vintages the much tighter collateral written? Yes I mean it's the low single digits depending on the LTV and et cetera.
But it's a very low claim rate and that is supported by the exceptional credit.
Scott Theobald do you want to comment on that? Yes I agree with Bob.
I'll just remind everybody that at this point of development it is some of the best performing businesses we've ever done.
LLC</strong> And then could you also give us some color on the mix between rescissions and claims denials what the kind of bucket between each of those used to be what they are today where you think they will be going forward and whether you've seen -- you've been able to deny more claims due to servicer improprieties that we all read about in the paper today? Historically the -- I mean it's really only a few years -- the rescissions were a much greater percentage of the two.
Denials have increased from where they started but they're still -- the mix is still rescission-heavy compared to denials.
We clearly are looking at the servicer issues and paying a lot of attention to that.
More likely in the past that has resulted in a reduction or curtailment of the claim as opposed to a flat out denial.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And could you just give us an update on what exactly those violations would be? Those violations could be timeliness in terms of when they move forward with a foreclosure.
They could be related to whether the property's been kept up and maintained properly those kinds of things.
And so there are a number of things.
We share that information with the servicers so that they're aware of what those issues are.
And we look at each claim to determine whether or not any of those issues have occurred and then make appropriate adjustments to those.
But as Bob said our real recourse generally is to make an offset on the amount of the claim paid.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then finally have you had any conversations with either of the GSEs about them increasing their counter-party risk surveillance on MIs and maybe the potential to gain additional NIW from weaker peers due to GSE involvement rather than originator intent? The GSEs have always focused on all of us in terms of making sure that we all have the capacity to write business.
And so far they have not tiered the participants in the industry but I can't comment on whether they will do so in the future.
Our next question comes from the line of John Benda with SIG.
LLLP</strong> Just had a question on the CDO books specifically the number of sustainable credit events that you guys list by maturity.
So we see that's on different corporate entities.
Can you give us an idea of how many distinct entities that's on? Is it on a couple thousand couple hundred? I'm just trying to get a better feel on what's really going to move that book around.
Our Financial Guaranty team -- people will answer that.
We've got our Chief Risk Officer Derek Brummer here I believe.
Yes there's probably about 850.
Remember we've said over and over that on the corporate CDOs we don't expect credit losses in that book of business.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Howlett with Macquarie.
Just on the paid claims forecast.
We've heard of -- I think you said it peaked this quarter.
We heard that from another MI as well.
What gives you confidence in that estimate just given as you mentioned there are so many servicer delays and foreclosure delays that are going on today in the system? We do that projection based on the number of claims received and then we look at a time line as to when those claims will be paid.
And obviously you're right that time line has a lot of uncertainty attached to it because we're examining every claim that comes in for potential rescission and that lengthens out the process.
I think our confidence with that statement has to do with the reduction in claims received from last year and the expectation that the claims will trend down generally.
And we said slowly because claims will remain elevated for the foreseeable future but we don't think at the same exact level that it was this quarter.
That's helpful.
But just on that same notion why is it so difficult to give sort of an incurred loss forecast in terms of why hasn't it peaked or why can't you go out today and say it's peaked and it's going to come down if you think you have the page right? It's a much more difficult exercise to project incurred losses because even if we get new defaults right and we've been fairly good at projecting new defaults and the reserve on that.
You can see it's relatively consistent over the past couple of quarters.
It's come down from last quarter.
That first component of the incurred losses is easier to project.
The much more difficult part is projecting the other -- essentially the other 3.
But really 2 and 3 are the hard ones.
Cures and prepays have been very difficult to project.
We've overestimated the amount of cures consistently.
And then the movement this composition which has really been a big component of incurred loss loans moving through the aging and the buckets have been very difficult to project.
It still is.
And the roll rates which are ultimately going to speak to the ultimate incurred losses are very difficult to project.
We do our best but we're not -- we're comfortable over the life with this embedded value talking in those terms but there's a lot of uncertainty on that.
From quarter-to-quarter it's very difficult to do.
Got you.
That's helpful.
And then just switching to one quick question on the earned premium item.
Were there any one-time sort of warranty pushbacks from warranties negotiations? I mean is that line item [indiscernible] going forward should we assume? No.
I think you could say 2 things about earned premiums.
One the risk in force has been coming down kind of steadily because we're not replacing what has been running off and that's a slow downward trend in our premium.
The bigger volatility from quarter-to-quarter on earned premium has been due to our rescission refund accruals which have gone kind of up and down and again difficult to project.
But that's the cause of the volatility.
Absent that you'd be seeing sort of a slow trending down of earned premium.
Okay.
So there were some rebates in that line item this quarter? The rescission refund accrual yes that did change this quarter yes.
And just last question you mentioned the ABS CDOs.
Did you say that deal started paying again in Financial Guaranty? The ABS CDO no I think you're referring to in our trust portfolio of our most troubled deals.
And 2 banks cure -- prepay and cure the event default.
But it's really kind of an idiosyncratic event.
And while it's positive in the short term it doesn't really alter our overall credit view of that transaction.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Grasher with Piper Jaffray.
Just a few questions here.
Bob on the risk to capital there are those states that adhere to the 25 to 1 ratio.
When you look at your new insurance written overall I guess for the first 6 months of the year and even if you could do a picture of 2010 what percent of that total actually would be coming from those states? I think Ohio would be...
I think at this point all of the states have with the exception of New York have agreed to do waive -- not for us because we're just -- but that they have agreed to sort of grant waivers.
And so New York is the only state at this point that has still a hard 25:1.
I don't think we've looked at sort of what the volume is in the states with the waiver process.
Teresa New York was lower single digits.
In terms of percentages of business.
Okay.
And then if you look at -- or Bob another follow-up would just be on the non-CDO RMBS portfolio any change in the reserve for that portfolio? No material changes.
That's generally an older book vintage-wise which has kind of helped the performance.
We do have reserves on it but no material changes this quarter.
Okay.
And then final question just for S.
A.
You mentioned GSE reform after 2012.
What about the FHA I think Congressman Ryan had been making some noise about the issues that maybe they have.
Any speculation on what the future might hold for them? From what I hear my view is that the GSE reforms would to some extent address the FHA role going forward also because one of the messages we hear consistently from everybody on Capitol Hill is the overall role of government versus private capital.
And we hope that if based on what we hear is right there will be a diminished role for government capital going forward relative to private capital.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Frost with Bank of America.
If you have mentioned this already I'm sorry.
Did you -- do you have any color on how much of the new business you're writing would conform to the QRM guidelines with the alternative definition if it were adopted I think one of your competitors made a note about that in their release.
Do you have any information on that? I think generally when we've looked at -- if the QRM were to come out as it was proposed at 20% down obviously there would be no business because -- now having said that we have to remember that [indiscernible] proposed has a GSE while there's conservatorship as an exemption.
So...
Right.
Right.
But what I'm talking about is there's an alternative definition that's contemplated in that proposal.
It's 10%.
I do think it's about half of the business.
So it's half of the business that you're writing right now? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Just a quick follow-up on Financial Guaranty public finance in particular.
Anything updates there on some of the more troubled credits within public finance? I know there's been some news in Jefferson County.
I guess it's coming somewhat to a head.
Do you still feel pretty good about reserves there and exposures? Yes.
All of our exposure from Jefferson County first of all is via reinsurance.
And there are obviously negotiations going on as you alluded to.
And our exposure will depend on whatever the eventual settlements that involves our primaries amounts to.
Based on the information that we have thus far we believe that our reserves are adequate given the nature of the conversation.
Great.
And then just last skilled nursing has been in the news lately.
Anything we need to worry about there on the public finance side? Not in particular.
Healthcare generally is an area that we pay a lot of attention to but nothing in particular about skilled nursing no.
Okay.
And you don't have an outside exposure there relative to sort of that $5.8 billion or...
No.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Pei [ph] with Citadel Securities.
I have a quick question.
I know that you said that it's difficult to sort of project out the incurred losses but I was hoping you can give me some color in relation to incurred losses you're seeing now what percentage of them are due to sort of the '06 to '08 vintages versus some of the more recent stuff you guys started to write from '09 on? And how do you see that sort of proportion changing over the next few quarters maybe even going out like 2 or 3 years? The losses from '06 and '07 are still a big proportion of our incurred losses.
We do a slide that shows you the premiums minus losses by vintage.
And you can see the '09 '10 and '11 vintages.
It's 15 that shows you that.
And it's a very small proportion of our incurred losses coming from '09 '10 and '11.
There's also a big proportion coming from '06 '07 and '08.
And prior has actually slowed down some.
So we're hoping over time that the problem vintages become a smaller portion but it's going to be a while.
It's going to still be a big proportion of our incurred losses over the rest of the year certainly.
Okay.
Great.
And just one more question.
In the sort of like disastrous scenario that the QRM definition doesn't actually -- I mean it gets passed down doesn't change materially even after the comments.
Where does Radian see itself moving from there? While it could be premature to comment on exactly what we would do at that time clearly it's something we do think about.
And we have capabilities that can to apply to a role in one of many areas in the mortgage finance housing finance industry whose future is still being shaped.
I would just add that given the fact that over 300 members of Congress have said that they don't think that the proposal as currently drafted is consistent with their legislative intent.
We do believe and have had conversations with members of Congress that if the rule were to come out as it's been proposed that we would look to try to have Congressional action take place.
As I mentioned earlier there's a one-year time frame before it would be implemented.
But also there would be an even longer time frame if the GSE exemption remains while they're in conservatorship which is expected to be for some time to come.
So we think there's an opportunity as well to try to address the rule if it came out that way in addition to what S.
A.
was discussing.
The trouble about -- the challenge about dealing with futures scenarios is there are multiple scenarios possible.
You could have an instance where the agencies come up with a relatively tight QRM definition.
But subsequently Congress in terms of the GSE reform expense of all the private capital by reducing the amount of guarantees from 80% to a lower level thereby expanding the role of people of participants like the mortgage insurance industry.
You could also speculate that at the same time if they tighten up on government role in financing on the FHA participation there will be a lot of borrowers that will still look at buying homes with less than 20% down who will have to find other ways of borrowing where there may be other roles possible.
Again we are closely monitoring trying to influence what happens and trying to keep ourselves in a strong position a nimble position to deal with that situation as it emerges.
We'll go on to the next question of Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
LLC</strong> Just one follow-up on the public finance book.
Given the recently debt deal in Congress can you give us any color on what you think the additional risk to the municipal exposure is as federal funding is reduced to the states? We don't see a material credit deterioration based on actions in Congress recently.
Derek do you want to add anything? I was going to say -- I mean we expected that.
We would expect generally a negative trend on the public finance side over the next year or two but not anything that would necessarily create a material change in our view.
And currently there are no further questions.
Please continue Mr.
Ibrahim.
Thank you operator.
And I'd like to thank you all for participating in our earnings call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does concludes your conference for today.
Thank you very much for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for standing by and welcome to the Radian's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Emily Riley Vice President of Financial Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investor section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce-Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2010 Form 10-K and our second quarter 2011 Form 10-Q.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily and thank you all for joining us.
Today I'll provide an overview of our third quarter results and then review progress against Radian's key priorities that we laid out on last quarter's call.
Next Bob will provide details on our financial position before we will open the call to your questions.
Earlier today we reported net income of $184 million or $1.37 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value gains of $207 million particularly in our Financial Guaranty business and a pretax loss of $78 million for our core mortgage insurance segment in the quarter.
At September 30 our book value per share increased to $9.67.
Our mortgage insurance loss reserve was $3.2 billion as of September 30 compared to $3.3 billion last quarter and $3.5 billion a year ago.
Our reserve per primary default was $25 346 essentially flat to last quarter and up substantially from $22 780 a year ago.
You may find these details on webcast Slide 14.
Our risk-to-capital ratio which is an important measure of Radian Guaranty's financial strength for our stakeholders regulators and customers was 21.4:1 as of September 30.
Additionally it is important to note that we maintain financial flexibility at the holding company to further support this ratio.
More details on our efforts to manage Radian Guaranty's capital position may be found in today's press release.
Now I would like to provide an update on the key priorities for our businesses that we introduced last quarter.
To start with we are pleased with the progress we made in the quarter in both our businesses.
Let's start with the priorities for mortgage insurance.
Priority number one to write as much profitable new business as we can and to be positioned to gain from competitor pullbacks in the near term as well as from market recovery in the future.
In the third quarter we wrote $4.1 billion of new business compared to only $2.3 billion last quarter and $3.2 billion a year ago.
We were extremely encouraged by this new volume which continued in the month of October with NIW in excess of $2 billion.
Based on this momentum we now expect to write in excess of $5 billion in new business in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As Bob said on the last call each $1 billion of NIW is expected to generate approximately $7.5 million in future after-tax value.
Year-to-date we have added nearly 300 new customers particularly credit unions community banks and independent mortgage lenders that have helped diversified our customer base.
Two MI companies stopped writing business in the third quarter providing us the opportunity to write more business in the future and our industry continued to recapture share from the FHA.
We continue to strengthen our sales and underwriting teams in order to support our customers and capture new business.
Our industry is steadily increasing its penetration of the insured market as the FHA returns to a more traditional role.
Another step in that process is the rollback of the GSE FHA loan limits from their current increased levels back to lower limits.
This rollback went into effect on October 1 and we believe represents another opportunity to gain share in today's high-quality market.
While the rollback is currently being challenged through legislation we believe it represents the administration's stated goal of ultimately reducing the FHA's role in housing and relying more heavily on private capital sources.
Finally we will also participate in the new HARP program that has expanded eligibility requirements to help more current borrowers refinance their loans into better terms with lower monthly payments.
Priority number two to diligently focus on loss mitigation by quickly paying deserving claims while enforcing our rights on each poorly underwritten fraudulent or negligently serviced loan.
We paid $330 million in claims for the third quarter reflecting continued foreclosure backlogs and servicing delays as well as our own claim administration process.
We are expecting to pay $1.6 billion in claims this year and estimating $1.3 billion for 2012 and we continue to focus on loss mitigation.
You will find the details of our rescission and denial activity on Slide 17.
Priority number three to participate in the regulatory and legislative debate on the future of housing finance with a goal of ensuring a favorable outcome for the mortgage insurance industry and importantly for first-time and low-to-moderate income borrowers.
We in our industry trade association MICA provided comments on the proposed QRM definition.
We understand that the agencies are reviewing hundreds of comments received on this definition including support of low down payment mortgage lending from legislators as well as industry and consumer groups.
We expect that it will take some time before the review is complete and clarity is provided.
On GSE reform we expect the debate to linger past the 2012 election.
Yet we continue to hear resounding support for private capital in the overall housing finance reform efforts on Capitol Hill.
Priority number four to rationalize our expenses in light of the weak mortgage origination forecast.
In the third quarter we realigned Radian's operational structure in order to complete -- to compete more effectively and reduce costs.
We continue to focus the company's resources on sales underwriting and other core functions to support new business growth.
However the action we've taken better aligns our support services to the lower mortgage market volume environment.
These actions are expected to reduce our cash expenditures in 2012 by nearly 10% some of which may be offset by costs to pursue increased NIW opportunities.
Priority number five to be actively engaged and open-minded about opportunities to create shareholder value through any restructuring or reshaping of the mortgage finance and mortgage insurance industry.
We continue to actively monitor the landscape for any new opportunities to create value.
Turning to Financial Guaranty.
Radian Asset continues to serve as a unique source of capital for mortgage insurance.
Despite a challenging environment for the industry Radian Asset was again profitable on an operating basis in the third quarter.
The priorities for our Financial Guaranty business are priority number one to provide capital support for our mortgage insurance business.
Radian Asset has performed well and has consistently paid dividends to Radian Guaranty and is expected to pay approximately $50 million next year.
Priority number two to diligently manage our existing risk exposure while pursuing commutations and other exposure-reduction opportunities.
Our net par outstanding in Radian Asset has declined 10% from the third quarter of last year.
Since 2008 when we stopped writing new business in Radian Asset we have reduced our Financial Guaranty risk by $43.3 billion or 38% including large declines in some of the riskier segments of the portfolio.
Priority number three to develop evaluate and if appropriate pursue new business solutions that can further reduce exposure and create shareholder value.
In late September we announced an agreement between Radian and the National League of Cities to explore the formation of a new public-finance mutual bond insurance company.
We are working on details of the structure and further evaluating the opportunity.
In closing our progress notwithstanding we remain concerned by the economic environment particularly the absence of meaningful recovery in the housing and employment.
We cannot change the environment but we can continue to be steadfast in focusing on our priorities and by doing so position Radian to be a leader in our businesses.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thanks S.A.
As always I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the third quarter of 2011 and our financial position as of September 30 2011.
The MI provision for losses was $277 million this quarter compared to $270 million in the second quarter and $414 million in the first quarter.
The overall loss development during the quarter was similar to the second quarter with a little higher level of new defaults a slightly higher cure ratio a continuation of elevated loss mitigation benefits and minimal change to the composition of default.
With a large portion of loans remaining stalled in the late-stage delinquency bucket we have not gained further clarity on ultimate outcomes and have therefore left our roll rates essentially unchanged.
The breakdown of our incurred losses which is disclosed on webcast Slide 12 now shows: One the losses incurred on new defaults that arose during the quarter and were still in default at the end of the quarter.
Two the net change in reserves on loans that were defaults at the beginning of the quarter and therefore had existing reserves and this includes loans that are still in default loans that have either cured or prepaid and loans that have had a disposition including claims denials and rescissions.
This line also includes changes to our IBNR reserve for future reinstatements of denials and rescissions.
And three other miscellaneous incurred losses.
We made a change to this slide this quarter because we believe the most important takeaway is how much of our incurred loss is related to new defaults versus defaults that were reserved for in the prior period.
Similar to the second quarter the majority of our incurred loss this quarter related to loans that were new defaults in the quarter.
Cures in the quarter were as follows: for loans that were 2 to 3 months delinquent as of June 30 25.7% cured during the third quarter.
Of loans 4 to 11 months delinquent 11.9% cured.
And of loans 12 months and greater but not pending claims 4.6% cured.
These amounts are improved very slightly from last quarter.
The dollar amount of loss avoided on submitted claims related to denials and rescissions for the third quarter of 2011 was $165 million compared to $193 million in the second quarter of 2011.
These figures are net of the overturns that occurred during the quarter.
The amount in our balance sheet representing future expected denials and rescissions is approximately $646 million and that is before considering our IBNR offset for future overturns.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio is estimated to be 21.4:1 as of September 30.
The primary drivers of the changes to our risk to capital this quarter were the MI operating losses which reduced capital partially offset by statutory income at Radian Asset driven by a significant loss reserve reduction on a TruP CDO and on our public finance exposure.
As S.A.
mentioned effectively managing our capital position is a priority in order to continue to increase our level of profitable new business writings.
We saw improving credit trends on several Financial Guaranty asset classes during the quarter including on our TruP CDOs.
The reduction of GAAP loss reserves primarily relating to public finance credits caused a negative loss provision of $27 million this quarter.
The one problem CDO of ABS which we have been disclosing for some time is expected to experience interest shortfalls in the first half of 2012 which would require a statutory loss reserve upon this default.
Much like what occurred in the first half of the year the change in fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments was primarily impacted this quarter by a significant widening of Radian's own credit spread contributing to a net fair value gain for the quarter totaling $207 million.
The total of our September 30 2011 balance sheet amounts related to our derivative exposures and consolidated transactions is now down to a net GAAP liability of $245 million which is approximately $144 million less than our current estimate of the net present value of expected credit loss payments as we show in webcast Slide 8.
This means that if our projections are accurate pretax book value will be reduced over time by approximately $1.08 per share.
This differential can be potentially reduced or eliminated by commuting or terminating certain exposures at a payout that is less than the net present value of expected credit loss payment.
We always look for such opportunities if they make economic sense.
For operating EPS purposes premiums earned during the quarter from derivative transactions is $10.3 million and the year-to-date figure is $31.7 million.
Our holding company cash resources are approximately $600 million after giving effect to amounts we can redeem from our CPS securities and after accounting for approximately $50 million of contributions to our MI subs this quarter.
If we execute any significant commutations for loss mitigation purposes this could accelerate the related statutory capital charge and could result in capital contributions to Radian Guaranty.
Our next material holding company obligation will be the principal maturity of $250 million of debt in 2013.
We'd now like to turn the call back over to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just regarding the cash at the hold company of $600 million what was that last quarter? We said last quarter that we expected the available cash at year end to be $630 million and that's barring any large contributions due to unforeseen events.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But what was it actually last quarter? Well the actual number is going to be subject to payments that we made.
We made intercompany tax payments in the quarter so I'm not sure that's as relevant as the $630 million that I'm talking about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I can ask another question.
Did you dividend any cash to Radian Guaranty from the holdco during the quarter? Not during the quarter but we said that we expect to pay down $50 million to MI subs in the fourth quarter and that includes Radian Guaranty and other subs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what is the DTA impact of the NAIC accounting change on your capital levels? It's almost nothing.
We have only $7 million of admitted DTA on a statutory basis so the impact would be negligible.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the corporate CDO side is there any exposure in any of those to the recent MF Global bankruptcy? No there isn't.
And our next question comes from the line of Mike Grasher with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> S.A.
you mentioned the trends in October for new insurance written.
Is there any way to give us an update in terms of delinquency or filed claim trends? You mean on the whole book? Bob? Yes.
In terms of October? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The -- yes.
Preliminarily it looks like the count of delinquencies is down slightly in October.
And in terms of claims I think we're seeing a continued slowdown for the reasons that we have noted.
Research Division</strong> Okay Bob.
And then also S.A.
mentioned the $1.3 billion I think in 2012 for paid claim activity.
Bob is there any seasonality that we should model in for that? No.
I don't believe so Mike.
I mean I think we're looking at a situation where the claims received over time have come down and that is the reason for the overall decrease.
But in terms of the number you saw during the third quarter that is -- that's low because of the backlog situation.
So we do expect it to tick back up in the short term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just more question.
S.A.
you spoke about looking at the different alternatives for the Financial Guaranty and the relationship with the National League of Cities.
Is there any impact? Or are you sort of watching out to the side on what S&amp;P may come out with the bond rating criteria? Mike as I mentioned we evaluating the opportunity.
Really there are many factors that go into that evaluation process including the S&amp;P's new ratings criteria as well as determining whether there is a demand for -- on the part of issuers for guarantees.
Dave would you like to add anything to that? I think that covers it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with regard to the sort of conversations with issuers and the demand there can you share with us any feedback? Well thus far we've gotten positive feedback.
It's anecdotal and we are evaluating the potential on a more systematic basis.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Bob if we're trying to think about the capital at the holdco that's available to dividend down to the MI subs should we think about the $600 million less your $250 million maturities and any kind of debt service you have between now and then? Is that roughly the way to think about it? Well the debt service is covered under our expense sharing arrangements with the subs.
But certainly the $600 million is available to contribute to the operating company and we do have the maturity in February 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there anything else to think about it or is -- so we should think something in the area of $300 million is potentially available? Well I think at this point $600 million is available.
We have that flexibility and we're pointing out the potential ways it could be used.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what types of options are you thinking about pursuing to potentially reduce the additional risk at Radian Asset? Well there are -- I mean there are several ways.
I think naturally things are going to be running off particularly the structured book over the next few years.
And then you've seen us do commutations proactively and that's certainly something that's on our mind and something that we pursue.
As well many of the counterparties have the ability to walk away or reduce the exposure that way.
So it could be coming from a number of different alternatives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there many commutation opportunities left? I would have assumed that you would've at least gone after the kind of the low-hanging fruit initially.
Well there are always opportunities and we evaluate the economics of them.
So I think there are continuing opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And then finally the -- let's see your cumulative rescission rate had been coming down pretty steadily since peaking in 2Q '09 but at least the last 2 quarters that we have data on has been kind of edging up.
Is there anything you can point to as a change in trend there that's notable? This is Teresa.
We've just continued to now look at every file and we're seeing a lot of those come through from '06 and '07.
And so as a result of that we've just seen more rescissions as a result of that.
But we haven't sort of changed the process that we use for reviewing those claims.
One way to look at it is if the '06 and '07 books continue to perform poorly on an elongated basis that also creates more rescission opportunities.
And our next question comes from the line of Jon Evans with Edmunds White Partners.
Could you just talk a little bit about -- you addressed being able to pay off the bonds in '13.
I guess can you help us understand Bob why you wouldn't be buying them back in the open market right now? Just -- they're so cheap.
That seems like that'd be a positive for your capital.
Can you help us understand that? You did that last time.
All right.
I mean today we have the flexibility with the $600 million and it's certainly something that we continue to evaluate.
We understand where the market is on the bonds and it's a potential opportunity.
And we have to evaluate all of the alternative uses for that capital.
The other question I'm curious is can you just talk to us about refinancing then? That alone seems like that's putting a lot of pressure on your stock not being able to get to book value because people point that you can't refund that debt like PMI did et cetera.
I mean will you try to take it out before it's due? Will you do something or will you raise additional capital? Or will you just use the capital that you existingly have? Well I think -- again today we have that flexibility.
Refinancing is something we'll evaluate like all of the other options.
So there's no definitive plan right now except we look at the options and we try to evaluate what's best for the company and we understand that all of those things are alternatives.
And regarding the capital question currently we're not looking to raise capital because we have that $600 million remaining at the holdco to support our MI business.
That said though we're operating in an uncertain environment.
And there may be circumstances in the future where we would consider raising capital because we're writing more business and we continue to be in this uncertain environment.
But we would do so only after thoroughly evaluating other alternatives and all potential consequences and then do so if we believe it's in the best interest of the company and our shareholders.
Got it.
And then just one last question relative to the writing.
So you're going to see what you said is about a 20% sequential increase in your new writings from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
I know this is early but is there any way to think about the March quarter? Would you sequentially grow it then again or is there a seasonal downtick? And how much share do you think you're picking up out of the PMI business them not being able to write? It's hard to project out because there's a lot of factors at play.
And I'll let Teresa talk about whether we're gaining share which I believe we are.
But the industry forecast for next year is down somewhat from this year.
And typically from a seasonality point of view particularly the originations market tends to be more depressed in the first quarter and then picks up in subsequent quarters.
And we're not -- in this environment barring the HARP successes we're not seeing a lot of refi activity.
But we believe that -- the forecast by the way if you believe the MBA forecast picks up as we go into 2013 quite significantly on the purchase side.
But that said I'll let Teresa answer the question how we are performing competitively.
Well the first thing I would say is one of the factors going into 2012 that's important to note is the change in the loan limits.
So while we won't have seen that in the third quarter numbers it's possible that we could see some benefit from that in the fourth quarter going into the first quarter of next year.
Now the -- their -- that rollback on the FHA loan limit happened on October 1 and there are efforts underway to try to re-extend the FHA loan limits.
But I think that would be one of the biggest factors that could give the overall MI industry a lift.
I think that we continue to develop very good relationships and collaborative relationships with our customers.
We've grown our customer base and diversified it.
And I think that's all contributing to us growing our share.
As we -- as I think many of you know the -- it's difficult to get sort of the exact share numbers anymore with 2 of the competitors not reporting those numbers.
So -- but in terms of sort of the amount of NIW that we're writing and what we expect we do believe our share is growing and that we are seeing some benefit from PMI and RMIC in addition to just our overall relationships and growth of our business.
And we've said on our priorities this is -- this happens to be a very important priority for us.
We've expanded capacity added sales people increased our customer base significantly and we are prepared to take advantage of the opportunities that the market presents itself both as the FHA pulls back as well as there are opportunities to gain share from the customers and hopefully over the long term as the mortgage market returns to more normal and higher volume levels.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Howlett with Macquarie.
As always thanks for the update on the first lien domestic portfolio profit projection.
I mean it's been coming down the last several quarters.
Obviously it was down $200 million this quarter.
What's been driving it? Has it been the expected frequency on the sort of current book of business because you haven't really moved the reserves on the defaulted book of business? Yes.
It's really both Matt because we drive this model from economic forecasts.
And the economic forecast we use economy.com has kept sort of delaying the recovery and pushing it out further once it even begins.
So when we apply that to our model that increases the frequency of our book and thus increases the losses.
So it is a reflection of that economic forecast that changes in that embedded value.
Got you.
I follow you.
And then just a more specific question.
There's obviously the difference between -- I know it's on a present value basis but you expect $4.6 billion of losses on the book and you have $3 billion of reserves or so.
The difference the $1.6 billion difference what's the timing of that I mean based on your default curves? Obviously if it all happens in next year or next 6 7 quarters I mean you're not going to be profitable.
If it happens over a longer period of time you could turn it.
And I guess the question is one of your competitors is now saying "We're not going to turn profitable until 2014." They actually pushed it out a year.
I know this competitor happens to be in runoff.
You guys are different.
But what's the timing of that $1.6 billion difference? I mean can you give us any indication on when you think you could turn the corner to profitability? It's difficult Matt.
And when we do we will certainly be out there with it.
I think we've given you some indication the $1.3 billion expectation for claims paid for next year.
The number that we're putting out there are really the claims numbers.
The hard part is to turn that into incurred.
That's going to be very difficult.
I would say the timing is such that it's going to be over several years.
But in terms of what's next year what's next quarter that's the real difficult part that we've just been -- it's just been very very hard to project and therefore we're now out there with projections on it.
Got you.
And then I mean -- I know one of your competitors has put that out.
I mean is there anything to think that your book is different that you guys are writing business? I mean is there something that -- I mean are all players the same in the industry? I mean is there any way to think that your portfolio is performing better than the rest of the space? I mean it's hard -- other than comparing delinquency rates and things like that it's hard to compare.
But we don't know of a competitor that is way outside the norm in terms of the portfolio.
It's hard to imagine that we're not all somewhat similar.
We all wrote a lot in '06 and '07 et cetera.
Obviously there's a new entrant that this doesn't apply to.
But I do think that over time we've seen the new default levels come down.
And we expect that to continue and we're going to need that to continue for the numbers that we're projecting to come true.
Got you.
I mean you guys did -- you guys are the only ones that do provide the incremental profit that you're adding from the new business you're writing.
So that's -- I think that's one differentiating factor that at least Old Republic doesn't have at this time.
The last question is just on the CDO of ABS.
You mentioned that it's going to start deferring interest next -- in the beginning of 2012.
What's -- I mean is the reserve that you set up for that is that similar to what you have established on a GAAP basis? And I guess how much is that going to eat into your statutory surplus at Radian Asset with that reserve that you'll have to take? Yes I mean the GAAP is -- it's a fair valued for GAAP.
So there's been a liability up there for GAAP.
There still is.
For statutory it's going to be -- if and when it defaults it will be a probability weighted.
So it's a kind of complex formula but it's probability-weighted cash flows essentially.
And the -- some of the inputs are you know the size which is $450 million and you know that we're saying that the big payment or the principal payment we don't expect to make until at least 2036 or maybe much later.
So there would be a present value impact of that involved.
But we haven't put a number out there because it is sort of a complex probability weighted based on the situation when a default would occur.
Got you great.
And will this impact at all?  Or do you know at all if it will impact the sort of annual dividend that Radian Asset upstreams to the parent typically in the summer? Well the $50 million that S.A.
put out there was our expectation of the dividend we will pay in 2012 and certainly we're aware of the situation.
And our next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about the development of sort of statutory losses in the coming quarters as it compares to GAAP? Just to get a sense as to how statutory capital for the MI should look.
Yes.
I mean if you look at the MI segment that's the statutory.
It's fairly close.
I mean the losses are fairly close to premium.
So it's -- I think it's a fair representation.
Now you're going to get -- the big differences are the fair value stuff which is mostly on the FG side so you can really back that out.
And then you are going to have some impact from the investment portfolio depending on what it is and how it's treated.
But I think on an operating basis you can look at by segment and get a fair representation of what's going on on a stat basis.
And on Financial Guaranty if you eliminate the fair value stuff you also get a fair representation.
There are differences but you'll be in the ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just to clarify that $600 million of parent company cash that already reflects the $50 million contribution.
It does yes.
And our next question comes from Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I want to revisit the market share topic a bit.
Obviously one of the stated goals is to continue to grow and write profitable business as best you can.
You took what seems to be a lot more share in your forward guidance some share as well from one of your competitors.
So I'm looking at the FICO runs on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Is it -- are you pricing things more aggressively in light of the cost saves you've taken on and the returns are the same? Are you going down the FICO ladder a little bit? Can you talk a little bit about what your -- what's driving some of the incremental volume there on the new business side? Sure.
I mean I think it's a number of things.
I think we're pretty priced competitively in the market and from a guidelines perspective.
I think a lot of it has been we refocused how we were working with customers at the beginning of this year and we actually split our sales force into sort of 2 segments.
And one area was focused on growing share with existing customers and we became very focused on that.
And I think we've been successful in that regard.
The other was to not only sign up new customers but also to make sure that we started generating new business from those customers.
So I think that we're seeing that.
I think that also we've tried to be very good in terms of how we handled what was going on with our competitors in the industry.
And we have indications that we may have benefited from sort of how we handled what was evolving in the industry in that customers viewed us favorably in that regard as well.
But you have to look at this also at -- over the long term.
While you're seeing these numbers now this story has really been unfolding over the long term.
Historically Radian's share was concentrated on the 10 largest players -- lenders in the market and we deliberately started the process of diversifying our customer base.
And through the entire downturn we've consistently been adding sales capacity and production capacity and that has been happening year after year.
That said the origination numbers tend to go up and down every quarter and they may go down and up as we move along.
The secular trend in terms of the volume we've written has been up.
But I wouldn't place a lot of reliance on quarter-to-quarter numbers because those could go up and down.
We are committed to on a secular long-term basis continuing to place a high priority on business.
Yes.
And I would say that I don't think there's been any change in our risk appetite from that point of view.
It's just been on making sure we do the best job at capturing profitable business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up question on the operating expenses.
In light of the headcount reduction you had in the quarter the numbers were a little higher.
And I think in the prepared comments you said that number was going to trend down 10% year-over-year with some addback for some sales development.
Did I understand that correctly? That is correct.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but S.A.
just taking a step back a little bit.
You mentioned among the priorities in the mortgage insurance business is to be active in the dialogue of restructuring of the mortgage finance and MI industries.
Could you just give us a flavor of what you expect the mortgage market to look like and the role of MIs as we go forward.
How that -- -- expect it to change or stay the same or the opportunities that you guys have or prospectively? I mean first of all the QRM process is going to unfold.
And while everybody looks at the QRM process in terms of -- and the DSC reform process in terms of how it could narrow the base of business we do and that is certainly possible at the top end there's also conversations on the Hill where tax -- where there's a indication that the government may reduce the support from 80% LTV government guarantees from 80% LTV to a lower level say 70% and move downwards.
While we don't know what's happening we monitor the situation and we want to be alert to those kind of opportunities happening.
And I'll let Teresa who's closer to the Hill to address that part.
But also in terms of that priority we're also focusing on opportunities to pick up share of business from other players and so on.
There -- this is a very fluid situation.
And I think what we do here is that there's -- while you're seeing bills coming out including the one that Congressman Garrett just released that there's not an expectation that we'll actually see legislation until 2013.
Having said that in our discussions on the Hill there's -- continues to seem to be a lot of support for the re-emergence of private capital including MI.
So we're hopeful in that vein that we will see a role and potentially an expanded role for MI going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there -- and even outside the context of QRM it seems like lots of financial holders or holders of financial risk are unwilling or unable to take mortgage credit risk.
I mean it seems like there's a opportunity beyond QRM.
Would you agree with that? I think that's possible.
I think one of the issues has been what's the size of the QRM and then what's the size of the non-QRM.
And there's been a lot of discussion in the industry around the fact that if you had a significant base of non-QRM there would be opportunities there as well.
So we are looking at that to make sure that we have an opportunity to play on both sides of that if you will.
And our last question comes from the line of Mike Grasher with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just Bob wanted to ask about and maybe an update on the performance of the non-CDO RMBS portfolio.
Looks like the subprime policies have moved around a little bit fewer policies there.
Just wondering if there's any change in reserve activity or the underlying performance of the portfolio.
Yes this is Derek Brummer.
There aren't any material changes in performers in the RMBS.
I think our GAAP claim liability this quarter is coming down marginally but otherwise pretty stable.
And please continue with any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining us.
And like we said on the call while we cannot change the economic environment and particularly the slow housing and unemployment levels we remain focused on our priorities.
Look forward to talking with you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you very much for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Emily Riley Vice President of Financial Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter and full year was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are: Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2010 Form 10-K and our third quarter 2011 Form 10-Q.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily and thank you all for joining us.
2011 has been an important year for Radian as we position the company for growth and future profitability.
The past few years have been impacted in many respects by the macro environment but we are now beginning to see some improvements in the economy and are capturing opportunities for profitable new business for Radian.
We are pleased with the progress we have made and look forward to differentiating ourselves in the market as a leader in new business.
The enhancements we have made in our capital position and operations are built upon the key priorities that we have highlighted throughout 2011 and which remain our core focus.
During the call today I will first provide a high-level overview of our fourth quarter results then an update on capital and liquidity and report on progress on our key business priorities.
Bob will then provide details on our financial position before I offer a few summary remarks and we open the call to your questions.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $122 million or $0.92 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value gains of $102 million and an income tax provision of $65 million.
For the full year 2011 we reported net income of $302 million or $2.26 per diluted share which includes a fair value gain of $822 million.
At December 31 our book value per share was $8.88.
Our financial results were once again impacted by the challenges of our legacy portfolio and the macroeconomic environment.
At the same time the credit environment is stabilizing and we are encouraged by the steady improvement in our delinquency portfolio and our ability to write more high-quality business in the fourth quarter.
The amount of NIW written in the fourth quarter of 2011 could generate nearly $50 million in after-tax income over its life.
And as the market leader in new business we have positioned ourselves well to capitalize on the opportunity afforded by the improving environment.
Now let's turn to our capital and liquidity positions and the progress we've made to strengthen our company.
First our risk-to-capital ratio which is a key measure of Radian Guaranty's financial strength for our stockholders regulators and customers was 21.5:1 as of December 31 2011.
Our risk-to-capital ratio in the fourth quarter includes a $100 million contribution from Radian Group but importantly does not include the impact of the recently announced Assured  transaction or any potential benefit from the termination of 14 corporate CDO transactions in the first quarter of 2011 due to counterparties exercising their walkaway rights.
Next Radian Group maintains $480 million of available liquidity today.
We have $250 million of debt that matures in February 2013.
Earlier today we launched a tender offer to opportunistically reduce that amount -- to reduce the amount of that debt outstanding.
Finally we have received waivers to write business in certain states that impose a risk-based capital requirement.
And we are in the process of finalizing agreements with both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for RMAI a licensed subsidiary of Radian Guaranty to be approved as an eligible mortgage insurer to write new business.
We expect to announce the details of these agreements in the near future.
With our risk-to-capital ratio and holding company liquidity we are confident that Radian is competitively well-positioned to continue our momentum in writing new high-quality mortgage insurance business.
Now let's turn to our key business priorities and the progress we have made to improve the financial strength and operating performance of our company.
We'll begin with mortgage insurance.
Priority number one to write as much profitable new businesses as possible.
In the fourth quarter we led the private mortgage insurance industry in driving business with 31% share of the market.
We wrote $6.5 billion of new insurance in the fourth quarter compared to only $4.1 billion in the third quarter and $3.8 billion a year ago.
This business is extremely high-quality consisting of prime business with 94% having FICO scores of 700 or better.
And we are off to a strong start in 2012 writing $2 billion in new business in January.
Importantly as a testament to our success in growing and diversifying our customer base half of our business came from 22 customers in 2011 compared to only 4 customers in 2009.
This customer diversification also positioned us to benefit from a larger share of the mid-sized the regional and community bank lender segments that grew their share of the mortgage industry volume disproportionately in 2011.
While our NIW is impacted by our share of the private mortgage insurance market it is mainly driven by mortgage industry volume and the mortgage insurance in force FHA penetration rate.
The mortgage industry volume stands to increase as the housing sector recovers over the next few years.
And we believe the MI penetration rate will improve further as Washington's commitment to promote private capital over public capital plays out.
This commitment was underscored by the FHFA earlier this week in their newly released GFC reform strategy.
Priority number two to diligently focus on loss mitigation by quickly paying deserving claims while enforcing our rights on each poorly underwritten fraudulent or negligently serviced loan.
We paid $292 million in claims for the fourth quarter and $1.5 billion for the year.
We believe claims peaked last year and are expecting to pay $1.3 billion in claims for 2012.
Priority number three to participate in the regulatory and legislative debate on the future of housing finance.
We continue to engage with legislators and other decision-makers in Washington both directly and through trade associations and think tanks.
Earlier this month we sponsored our third housing finance discussion panel on Capitol Hill where a group of mortgage industry experts unanimously supported a healthier balance between the public and private sectors in today's mortgage market.
We also hear this sentiment as a consistent theme in our meetings with key legislators.
Priority number four to rationalize our expenses in light of the weak mortgage origination forecast.
In 2011 we implemented a major expense reduction initiative and we continued to focus on reducing expenses through continuous improvements.
Our actions in 2011 reduced -- included a workforce reduction of approximately 7% of Radian's corporate and mortgage insurance staff.
Turning to Financial Guaranty.
Radian Asset continues to serve as a unique source of capital for mortgage insurance.
The priorities for our Financial Guaranty business are priority number one to provide capital support to our mortgage insurance business.
Radian Asset has performed well and has consistently paid dividends to Radian Guaranty and is expected to pay approximately $50 million in 2012.
As I mentioned earlier Radian completed a 3-part transaction with Assured Guaranty last month that included the commutation and ceding of public finance business that is expected to add $100 million to Radian Guaranty's statutory capital in the first quarter of 2012.
Priority number two to diligently manage our existing risk exposure while pursuing commutations and other exposure-reduction opportunities.
Our net par outstanding in Radian Asset declined 12% from the fourth quarter of last year and including the first quarter Assured commutations our net par outstanding declined by 32%.
Since 2008 when we stopped writing new business in Radian Asset total net par has been successfully reduced by $62 billion or 53% including large declines in the riskier segments of the portfolio.
The first quarter counterparty walkaways mentioned earlier from the termination of 15 -- of 14 corporate CDO transactions will reduce our Financial Guaranty exposure by an additional $5.8 billion.
We took advantage of prudent portfolio decisions helping us avoid most of the CDO RMBS business that adversely impacted our FG peers.
And we restructured our Financial Guaranty business to become a source of capital for our mortgage insurance business.
In an industry with many casualties our Financial Guaranty business stands out in terms of its credit mix disciplined exposure reduction and steady dividend contributions.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Bob? Thank you S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the fourth quarter 2011 and our financial position as of year-end 2011.
The MI provision for losses was $333 million this quarter compared to $277 million in the third quarter.
Our loss development during the quarter was similar to the third quarter and about as we expected with a higher level of new defaults that we attribute to seasonality.
For the year MI incurred losses were $1.3 billion down from $1.7 billion in 2010.
Primary new defaults for the year were down by 18% compared to 2010.
We are expecting continued improvement in incurred losses in 2012 but we still expect an operating loss for the year in the MI segment.
Based on current projections we expect to return to a small level of MI operating profitability for the 2013 year.
Our projections assume an annual reduction in new defaults of between 14% and 15% for each of 2012 and '13 which is significantly less than the percentage reduction we saw in both 2010 and 2011.
Among our additional assumptions are no material increases to our expected roll rates and a very slow but steady improvement in the overall economic conditions consistent with the economy.com projection.
Our increased level of new writings in 2011 brought our year-end risk in force from 2009 through 2011 books up to 28% of our primary risk in force and the most problematic 2006 and 2007 books are down to 1/3 of our primary risk in force.
This positively differentiates Radian from much of the industry.
While we believe that our existing MI book of business has a positive embedded value the sensitivity of our results to the future economic situation and the ultimate success of government programs such as HARP 2 and the proposed expanded HAMP makes it difficult to determine a point estimate of our embedded value.
We believe that the embedded value of our book is clearly positive.
However our current estimate is down substantially from previously disclosed point estimates primarily due to the continued slowdown in the pace of the economic recovery which has increased our ultimate claim projections on today's performing loans to a 9% level.
Cures during the quarter were as follows.
For loans that were 2 to 3 months delinquent as of September 30 23.9% cured during the fourth quarter.
For loans 4 to 11 months delinquent 11.2% cured.
And of loans 12 months and greater but not pending claims 4.7% cured.
Obviously any success with regard to the newly proposed expanded HAMP program will help us achieve our expected cure rates.
The dollar amount of loss avoided on submitted claims related to denial and rescissions for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $135 million compared to $165 million in the third quarter of 2011.
These figures are net of the overturns that occurred during the quarter.
The amount in our balance sheet representing future expected denials and rescissions was $631 million before considering our IBNR offset for future overturns.
We increased the amount of IBNR this quarter due to an increase in our estimate of future rebuttals.
The increased number of our claim investigations during 2011 has resulted in a higher number of rescissions and denials although the percentage of rescissions has come down as expected.
Our thorough process which allows servicers ample time to find documentation or provide additional information before we record our denial and rescission has not changed.
And our rebuttal experience over the past 2 years has been incorporated into our accounting estimates and thus we believe our IBNR appropriately considers potential future overturns.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio is estimated 21.5:1 as of December 31.
A primary driver of the changes to our risk-to-capital components this quarter were the MI and FG statutory operating losses which reduced capital.
This incorporated the increase in mortgage insurance reserve per default the statutory reserve booked during the quarter on our CDO ABS transaction and a $15 million increase in reserves related to the Jefferson County Alabama bankruptcy.
Our year-end loss reserve on Jefferson County is now $27 million compared to our total exposure of $228 million.
Our risk-to-capital ratio benefited from several deliberate actions including intercompany reinsurance commutations a reorganization of certain Radian insurance subsidiaries and the capital contribution of $100 million.
As S.A.
mentioned effectively managing our capital position is our main priority in order to maintain and grow our level of high-quality new business writings.
While some of the positive impact of our capital initiatives was realized by the end of 2011 we will receive additional benefit of approximately $100 million during the first quarter due to the Assured transaction and we are expecting additional risk-to-capital relief in 2012 from an external quota share reinsurance policy on our newly written business that we are working to complete in the first quarter.
We saw a continuation of improving credit trends on several Financial Guaranty asset classes during the quarter including on our TruPS CDOs that you can see clearly in the last 4 columns of webcast Slide 27.
Based on the recently announced transaction with Assured and a growing number of structured finance transactions that have been terminated during the first quarter of 2012 we are continuing to accomplish our goal of reducing the par exposure in Financial Guaranty in order to increase the level of and improve access to our Financial Guaranty capital.
A large proportion of our contingency reserves relate to our corporate CDOs which either expire over the next several years or for which more counterparties are exercising their walkaway rates.
This is a short- to medium-term statutory capital opportunity that is unique to Radian.
Despite having a pretax loss for the quarter we had income tax expense of approximately $65 million.
$57 million of this expense is due to nonoperating remeasurement of our FIN 48 on certain tax positions relating to the RMIC tax issue we have previously disclosed.
As reported we have reached preliminary agreement with the IRS Appeals division but were recently notified that the Joint Committee on Taxation is opposed to this agreement and thus this settlement negotiation will be reopened.
We have guaranteed the ultimate tax liabilities at Radian Group which allows us to keep the cash at the holding company while awaiting the final outcome rather than contributing it to the insurance subsidiary based solely on the additional liability we have booked.
The existing deposit amount with the IRS is $89 million.
While the ultimate outcome of this matter is uncertain a settlement at that level would require approximately $73 million from Radian Group to reimburse our insurance subsidiary for the tax payment.
As of year-end 2011 the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is approximately $800 million or $6 per share.
After the $100 million contribution to Radian Guaranty which satisfies the GSE's immediate requirements in connection with RMAI eligibility we have $482 million currently available at the holding company.
Absent any additional capital contributions we expect to breach 25:1 after the first quarter of 2012.
More contributions are possible during 2012 and 2013 to make certain that we keep writing new business including our requirement to provide Radian Mortgage Assurance with $50 million from Radian Group when we've breached 25:1 at Radian Guaranty.
There is also a potential need for holding company cash when our IRS issue is finalized which could occur in 2012.
$250 million of our debt matures in February '13 and as disclosed we have launched a tender offer for this debt with $100 million of targeted cash spend at a price between $78 and $86.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Over the past year we have taken proactive measures that have allowed us to maintain a competitive risk-to-capital ratio for Radian Guaranty while ending the year with $480 million of holding company liquidity.
This was achieved through investment gains internal reinsurance the restructuring and commutations which demonstrated our ability to improve our risk-to-capital position.
We will continue to explore similar opportunities to further enhance our statutory capital position as we move forward.
We also expect to have the ability to write new business above 25:1 through state-level waivers and the GSE approvals of our RMAI subsidiary.
As a result of all our actions we have successfully positioned Radian's mortgage insurance business to compete even more effectively with a growing and diversified customer base.
While there are some things we cannot change we are focused on those we can by continuing to differentiate and position ourselves as an industry leader as the economy shows signs of improvement.
We have substantially strengthened the position of our mortgage insurance business to compete successfully in the market for high-quality new business and benefit from future mortgage volume growth.
As demonstrated by our January NIW and our strong pipeline the positive momentum in new business in the fourth quarter has continued into 2012.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Bob could you provide a little more detail in the nonfinancial benefits of the risk-to-capital this quarter? It looks like whatever you did internally beyond $150 million added to your subs had a net impact of another $100 million benefits.
So can you detail what else happened during the quarter that helped that ratio out? Yes Jeff.
And I think we said it.
There was internal reinsurance done which that ceded risk so that comes off the risk in force.
There were commutations done.
And typically we've done commutations that positively impact our capital by a little bit.
And then there were also -- there was restructuring of the insurance subs.
The most prominent of those was the RMAI subsidiary which has $70 million of statutory capital and is now a direct subsidiary of Radian Guaranty.
So all of those things were done and impacted the statutory risk-to-capital ratio.
LLC</strong> And then on the risk -- the rescission and denials obviously you booked in an additional IBNR this quarter for rebuttals what type of range of rebuttal expectations do you have factored into your assumptions? And what is the cumulative amount in your reserves that you're assuming in terms of a benefit for R&amp;D in the future? As I have said the expected future denials and rescissions the benefit built into the reserve growth is $631 million.
The offset or the IBNR against that would be about $129 million.
So that's the future expected overturns that's in the number.
And in terms of rebuttal or overturn assumptions I would say that on rescissions it's a relatively small number and on denials it's a much higher number.
And we specifically allocate the ultimate number to the mix between rescissions and denials.
LLC</strong> And just on that $631 million rough breakdown of benefit from rescissions versus denials? Yes I mean I don't have that breakdown.
But typically historically it's been more rescissions than denials.
The recent experienced denials have come up in relation to rescissions.
Our next questions will come from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> First question quickly Bob what would be the impact roughly of the $100 million benefit from the commutations in the next quarter? All the things being equal would that take you down to around 19:1 risk-to-capital? Is that about right? Yes I mean we'll be publishing the exact formula or calculation for the risk-to-capital ratio in our 10-K so you'd be able to see the components.
And then you'll be able to put the $100 million -- the $100 million is a capital benefit and I presume you're talking about the assured transaction.
So it's kind of a moving target.
So we hesitate to say exactly what it's going to mean but you'll be able to incorporate that $100 million.
And then obviously you're going to have other things going on during the first quarter that will impact both risk and capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what type of benefit might you get from that quota share reinsurance contract you mentioned on the new business? When we finalize the agreement and we did say we expect to finalize it sometime during the first quarter we'll put those numbers out there.
But we're not doing it yet because we're still in the process of finalizing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the $15 million increase you mentioned the reserve for Jefferson County does that reflect everything you know -- we kind of know on that situation year-to-date? I think I read recently that the county was diverting cash from the sewer project for general use.
Is your current reserve kind of reflect the latest developments there? Yes absolutely it does.
This is Dave Beidler.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And finally what are your expectations for benefits from HAMP 2.0? And is that reflected in your reserves? I think -- this is Teresa.
Are you referring to the HARP 2.0 and then kind of expanded HAMP...
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry.
I meant -- more specifically I meant the HAMP like in particular the increase in the incentives they're providing on principal forgiveness.
Yes I think we're not really in a position to say sort of how much of a pickup we think we'll get from that.
We certainly think that it's going to be a positive.
So to the extent that more borrowers can qualify for it and that there are more incentives to take people through modifications that should definitely be a positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But nothing specific to reflect in the reserves at this point? No.
No I would say that we believe the extended HAMP will help us achieve our projected cure rates that are built into our reserves.
Next we have a question from Jon Evans with Edmunds White Partners.
Can you just talk a little bit about I guess your thought process relative to minimum capital that you need to have at the holding company? So you have $480 million right now.
If you're successful in this tender if you look at the high end of the range $86 plus $40 that's $90 a bond you're basically going to pay.
So what kind of minimum do you think you need to have at the holding company? And then can you talk a little bit about your thought process relative to refinancing the '13s? Because it seems like that's a key issue to get to the other side for the stock.
So could you help me understand that? Yes I mean I would say it's very difficult to put a number out there.
What I would say is that we're carefully managing our holding company liquidity.
We've done that for several years now.
And at this time we're comfortable with the tender offer at the level that we've gone out with.
But it's very difficult to just put a number on it.
Clearly we want to keep as much flexibility as possible.
However our main priority is to keep writing new business.
We think that's the best ultimately for the company and the shareholders.
So we're going to do what we need to do to make sure that we keep writing.
So it's a process that we have to go through and we have to make judgments but it's something we're very carefully managing.
Bob could I ask you one follow-up just relative to that? Because it seems like it could be pretty important for the stock.
I assume you're not going to wait until the last minute to refi the '13s right? We'll carefully review all of our options as we always do.
And I think you've seen the first step with the tender in addressing the 2013s and we'll keep reviewing it and decide what we think is best for our company.
And then a question relative to the delinquencies.
Can you help us understand your guys' thought process? You've seen a trend where they have continued to go down sequentially but not just year-over-year.
Do you think that trend of sequential decreases even though it's small continues as the books start to burn out? Or could you give us any thoughts relative to that? We do.
We think that delinquencies will continue to climb.
We even put out there the new delinquency decline expectation between 14% and 15% for the next 2 years.
So yes we do.
And it's driven by the change in the profile of our book of business.
We've got 28% of our book now made up of from 2009 and subsequent.
The most problematic books are our lower percentage of the book and what's left in the current section from the poorer vintages has been performing.
Next we go to the line of Robert Haines with CreditSights.
Could you give me a sense of what the dollar amount of your aggregate statutory capital is? And also I know the state of Pennsylvania is not an RBC state.
But what is the minimum capital requirement for MIs domiciled in the state of Pennsylvania? The statutory capital levels at year end will be approximately $843 million and Pennsylvania minimums are a very small level.
They wouldn't come into play.
Next we have a question from Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us the kind of upper balance for the IRS potential? How much extra cash above what you're currently expecting could that end up being? I mean there's a range out there.
I would say what we said is at the level we've booked to.
If we settled at this level it would produce the need for about $73 million.
The upper range is a little bit more than that but we don't -- at this point in time we don't expect to settle at a level above that $73 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- I'm just trying to look at how the CDO of ABS impacted capital.
It looks like the contingency reserve in the FG business was flat quarter-over-quarter.
I would have thought it would have decreased more with -- or it was down about $10 million would decrease more with the CDO of ABS.
Can you just walk me through how that impacted the actual capital level of the MI? We had given a range last quarter of a stat capital impact of between $88 million and $109 million.
The actual stat capital impact in the quarter was $91.8 million.
The contingency reserves I don't think you mean that that impacted the contingency reserve.
The contingency reserve is going to go up based on premiums.
It's going to go down based on reduction of exposure.
So that reserve on the CDO of ABS wouldn't specifically impact contingency.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess finally looking at Jefferson County how should we think about the $27 million reserve in the context of the overall exposure? Like what are the inputs that are calculated based on that? What kind payment curtailments do you expect on a percentage basis? And really just trying to put it down for myself on if payments are less than you expect to make an adjustment -- I mean what are your expectations that are embedded in that reserve today? Setting up our reserves encompasses a probability weighting of a number of scenarios including the ones you mentioned.
And based on all the information that we have to date and the things that we've read publicly all those factors have been considered in calculating that reserve.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there a potential you can give a weighted average probability that results in the reserve calculation for payment curtailment? As a percentage is it 10%? Is that what the number ended up being? We're not going to disclose that no.
We go now to the line of John Benda with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I'm on the call for Jack Micenko today.
Just a couple of questions for you.
First on your default book did you disclose the percentage of GSE and private-sector loans? Is there a breakout for that? Like is it 70% of those are GSE loans or...
We don't disclose it but it's in that range.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question was around the cure rates that you guys gave for the fourth quarter.
Looking on an annualized basis could you -- would it be safe to say that you would expect to annualize those kind of numbers? Or how do you look at that? It's very difficult to say that because many of our defaults -- and we've talked about this in the past many of our defaults are redefaults.
So they go into default they cure and then they redefault.
So I think we said something like 2/3 maybe even more of our defaults are redefaults.
So annualized you're probably talking about the same defaults quarter-after-quarter.
So it's a very difficult thing to do that's why we don't do it.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question with Financial Guaranty.
How do you motivate counterparties when you commute some of that exposure? I mean is that just they are looking for the business? Or I mean how does that really work on the whole when you're seeking counterparties? Well there are a host of different answers to that question depending on the kind of exposure and who the counterparties are.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
But would you say they are more abundant? I mean is it a tougher process? I'm just trying to think what the ability for more of that is in the future is basically the question.
I could talk to the corporate CDOs if you think about those the maturity is near-term right? Most of them -- we published that when they are going to mature.
So as they approach maturity there's less market volatility associated with them.
We said before that there's -- we believe there's very little credit risk associated with them.
So for instance the counterparty could decide "I'm going to stop paying premiums for the rest of the life" and essentially walk away which they have the right to do.
And that's really what's happening on the first quarter deals that S.A.
had talked about.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last thing.
On your NIW growth it seems like it's really outpacing like for instance MTG.
I mean where are your additional opportunities coming from versus the competitors that remain in this space in terms of market share gain? Is it just the stronger sales force or...
I think it's a couple of things.
I mean one is that as we've been reporting for the last couple of years we've been diversifying our customer base.
And so we've continued to add a lot of customers onto our customer base.
We've also strengthened our sales force.
We restructured our sales force last year to focus on both cultivating our existing customers as well as bringing on new customers and really transitioning those new customers into customers that were submitting new NIW.
And I think all of that played into helping to position us – and the good relationships that we have with our customers helped position us in terms of the increase in NIW that you saw.
So we also benefited to some extent in the very near past from 2 of our peers no longer writing business.
But as Teresa said this has been a very systematic process of continuing to invest in our business go after a diversification and expansion strategy to increase the number of customers we do business with and invest in the business in terms of sales and other -- training and other capabilities.
We also have I believe one of the best training capabilities that we offer to our customers.
And like I said in my comments we benefited from having positioned ourselves whether by design or luck to benefit from the disproportionate volume increases we saw among the mid-sized independent mortgage companies the community banks and the regional banks.
Our next question comes from the line of Stuart Yingst with Claren Road.
Bob can you clarify one thing? You said you expect to be above 25:1 absent sending down additional capital at the end of the first quarter.
Does that include the $100 million Assured transaction? Yes.
The first quarter will benefit from the Assured transaction.
So the statement about expecting to go above 25:1 without any additional capital contributions after the first quarter yes that's accurate.
After the first quarter.
After the first quarter okay.
And then can you kind of just give us a little bit more color on your outlook for the delinquent inventory and how you see your reserve for the delinquent loan metric changing over time? If I back out paid claims it looks like the delinquent inventory is still growing.
It grew about 10 000 loans in 2011 and 8 000 loans in 2010.
So absent paying claims it seems like it's still growing.
What sort of changes -- does the cure ratio jump? Or it seems like you're on pace to kind of liquidate the entire delinquent inventory.
Well it's more about the new defaults right? So the new defaults are driving incurred losses.
The cure rate obviously that's built into our reserves and we expect that to occur over time.
But the primary driver of the improvement will be a decrease to new defaults which we've seen over the past 2 years has occurred in a pretty substantial amount.
Okay.
So as -- so should the cure ratio be above 100% outside the kind of the 2 or 3 seasonally strong months then going forward? Not necessarily.
No it will improve over time.
At some time it will be but we didn't say when.
I think you've got to think about incurred losses being driven mostly by new defaults now.
We're having less of an impact from development on the existing defaults and we did a slide on that to kind of show you that.
So incurred loss in the future will be driven more by the new default development.
Okay.
So I mean the thing I struggle with is the cure ratio seems to -- or cure seem to burn out as well with the new defaults so that's why I sort of am trying to get a little more clarity.
Yes no that's right.
I think that the cure rate has been low for really the last couple of years due to all of the reasons that with modifications and slowdowns in servicer actions a lot of these government programs HAMP the expanded HAMP which is proposed will help.
And ultimately we believe our cure rates will be achieved but it's slow and it's over time it's not right away.
Okay.
So should we continue to see the reserve per delinquent loan metric to continue to edge up then? You could.
I mean a lot of the reserve for default is going to be dependent on the weighted average age how many claims are in-house that haven't been paid how many delinquencies are new versus old.
So that's going to be a big driver of the reserve for default.
In addition to severity which is almost at the max we don't think reserve for default will go up as a result of severity changes anymore.
That's about as high as it can go.
But if you see reserve for default go up it's either going to be because we've increased roll rates which is possible but we don't expect to happen or because more of the delinquency population is older and therefore requires a higher reserve.
We'll go next to the next question now which comes from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Bob I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks and it goes a little bit to the last question that expanded HAMP HARP 2.0 is going to help you achieve your cure rate assumptions built into the reserve.
I mean how are we supposed to interpret that? Is that you are now incorporating expanded HAMP and HARP 2.0 in your reserve methodology as of December 31? Or was perhaps your prior cure assumption a little bit optimistic? No I'd say neither Steve.
No I think that we don't incorporate specifically HAMP and it would be HAMP because HAMP is on delinquent loans.
The HARP is going to help on the current loans avoiding future default which is a great thing as well.
I would just say that the more that can be modified and with the eligibility criteria potentially expanding that is beneficial in helping us achieve our projected cure rates.
But it's not specifically in there because it's too difficult to do that.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
And there too much sort of bias that's higher.
Is that a fair assumption? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> I mean is it just too early to sort of bias your cure rate assumptions higher based on expanded HAMP I guess is the...
Yes I would say that's accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the past few quarters you guys have put out your net profit for your first lien domestic portfolio.
And I think it ended last year at like $1.5 billion net profit as of September 30 to -- well $1 billion of net profit estimated.
I think in your prepared remarks you talked about that still being a positive number.
Where are we today as of -- if you've disclosed that I apologize I didn't see in the slide deck.
Well we're not going to be disclosing a point estimate going forward due to the difficulty in doing that.
It's dependent so much on the future macro economy.
Some of these government programs we're just  not comfortable with a point estimate.
I think we made it very clear that one it's positive; and two the changes have been more related to the current portfolio and our expectations for future claims on the current portfolio which we said now the claim rate on the current portfolio is up to 9% in our projections.
And that we're very comfortable with that number.
But in terms of the point estimate we're really not comfortable anymore because it changes due to these things that are beyond our control and in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And when you say -- I think you inferred that the net profit is probably lower than previously thought.
Lower than the $1.5 billion you saw at the beginning of the year or lower than the $1 billion you saw at September 30? Just to clarify.
Yes lower than both.
But yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the quota share reinsurance I mean any color on the counterparty for that agreement? Is that...
No we wouldn't be disclosing the counterparty.
But it would be -- obviously it would qualify and we would obtain statutory credit.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
I was just curious if that was a subsidiary of an originating institution or a bank or whether it was just a standalone insurance company.
Yes.
No we wouldn't be disclosing that.
We now have a question from the line of Pat Dowd with King Street Capital.
What is the dollar amount of delinquent risk in force? I mean you can probably calculate that yourself.
It's not readily in front of us.
But you know the amount of the liquid loans and you know the average loan size and coverage amount.
So it's pretty calculable.
Okay.
So if I take the number of delinquent loans times the average claim I think that's $5.8 billion is that the right context? Or you can take -- I mean you can take default rate times the risk in force.
That's a good way to do it or you can -- I mean there are a lot of ways to get close to it.
Okay.
Is that something -- I think if you multiply the default rates times the risk in force you get to a lot lower number than if you multiply the delinquencies times the average claims.
I'm just not sure which...
We've actually been able to get that number while we're waiting so it's about $5.6 billion.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then on RAA surplus it was flat quarter-over-quarter at $1 billion.
You talked about the $92 million hit from the ABS CDO reserve.
Where did the offsetting gains come from? I mean typically we have contingency reserve releases that increase that surplus.
So that could be part of it.
And the other operating results for the quarter would also be a component including potential investment gains.
So there are a number of things that impact it.
Okay.
You don't have it on hand now? Not the components no.
Okay.
And then finally can you just walk us through the bridge from $726 million of cash at the holdco as of September 30 to the $483 million? I mean I know some of the major components of that but it seems like there's a decent amount going on there.
Yes so in the fourth quarter of '11 there was the tax payment that we had disclosed intercompany that was about $84 million.
There was also a capital contribution of $50 million which we disclosed as well last quarter.
And then the $100 million capital contribution that was incorporated this quarter.
That's the -- those are the primary components that gets you close.
We have other minor things that flow in and out quarter-to-quarter.
And our final question today will come from the line of Matthew Howlett with Macquarie.
Bob I mean the guidance on going above 25:1 in 1Q a little bit higher than I would've thought.
I guess maybe you could help me understand a little bit better.
If your cure ratio was 100% in January like you put out.
Defaults are -- I guess in January were going on at a rate of 20% and then maybe that might slow.
But given the benefit of seasonality in February and March and your expectation that reserves at the MI section will be really driven by new notices of default which I peg sort of around the 21 000 area in 1Q how do you -- how does that drive the risk-to-cap up? And what else is it the growth of the numerator? Is it adjustment to the existing reserves? Anything else you can help me understand that would be appreciated.
I think there seems to be some confusion around this because I think what we said was that sometime after the first quarter we may exceed 25:1 risk-to-capital.
And so that was the main thing we said.
After the first quarter we may exceed 25:1 risk-to-capital.
Obviously there are many moving parts to it that the future development of losses the other uses of capital that go into it.
There's also offsets in terms of potentially what else we may be able to successfully do similar to what we've done in the past that would offset it.
But we wanted to in terms of being fulsome in our discussions lay that out for you.
We don't have any exact date that we expect that to happen but we wanted to lay it out.
Got you.
Thanks for clarifying that.
And then just -- you maybe aware of this already but a competitor Genworth has said that new defaults they think are going to go down a rate of 20% this year.
I know your January numbers year-over-year were that.
Is there anything a reason to believe that your book would improve at the rate that another's MI? It seems like you guys are all kind of the same in terms of performance.
I don't know how to -- I don't know their portfolio well enough to know whether we'll be similar or different.
But I think the macroeconomic factors that seem to be driving the default improvements apply to everybody.
And more of our defaults come from the full doc loans as we go forward.
But Bob actually gave a number of what our expectations are and how they compare to past.
And I would say that an expectation of between 14% and 15% and an expectation of 20% are very similar.
They're both in a range that is reasonable.
And how did we -- how did that compare to what happened in the past Bob? It's lower.
Our number for the year 2011 was 18%.
For the year 2010 it was 30%.
So it is lower than what has happened over the past 2 years.
That's our number.
And again I would view those 2 numbers as being pretty similar.
And we hope they are right.
Exactly.
And then one more question and it's probably directed at you S.A.
I mean the House Committee on Financial Services I think last week approved the FHA Emergency Act.
And it looks like they're going to raise the monthly insurance premium the high end of it to $205.
I think they're currently at $115.
They can go up to $155 but they're going to push it up.
It sounds like they may raise it to build up a shortfall in their reserves.
I mean and if they do go up to $205 how much beneficial will -- how much of the premium or discount will you guys be towards the FHA? I mean how much of a benefit toward a customer gain in going through private MI versus an FHA premium at those rates? I think Teresa is the best person to answer that.
Well I would say that the increases in FHA would be helpful to us.
I mean with the changes that occurred in '11 with them increasing their fee in April of '11 and a decrease in the MI premium that we put in place in for borrower paid in the middle of the year that already made the product competitive with FHA.
Some of the changes that occurred at the end of the year where the GSEs were required to increase their G-Fee to pay for the 2-month payroll tax deduction extension with sort of narrowing that benefit particularly when it came to note rate.
So any increase in the FHA premium would be a positive in helping to make the MI more compelling for a borrower from a payment perspective than FHA.
And I think with that operator we are ready to wrap up the call for today.
And I'd like to thank all the participants who participated in it and see you at our next quarter call.
With that that does conclude our conference.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Radian's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of financial communications Emily Riley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are: Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2011 Form 10-K.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily and thank you all for joining us.
Today I will first provide brief highlights of our quarterly results then I will focus my remarks on how we keep our eye on the prize in terms of producing future shareholder value.
I will discuss 3 key areas: first how do we think about Radian's future value for our shareholders a value that we hope to realize once we finally exit the downturn and shed our legacy burden; second what are some of the challenges we face in getting to the prize; and finally what are we doing today to navigate through those challenges.
Next Bob will cover the details of our financials which have some complexities again this quarter.
Before we open the call to your questions I will offer a few final remarks.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the first quarter of $169 million or $1.28 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value losses of $91 million.
At March 31 2012 our book value per share was $7.65.
Now let me discuss the future prize that keeps us focused motivated and excited every day at Radian.
We believe our core mortgage insurance business today is attractive with strong returns outstanding credit quality and sound pricing.
We continue to capture a much larger share of new mortgage insurance business today than ever before in our history in an extremely competitive but high-quality market.
In fact our market share of this profitable new business is double what it was in the challenging underwriting years of 2005 through 2008 and this increased volume is improving the overall credit profile of our MI portfolio.
In the first quarter we again wrote $6.5 billion of new Mortgage Insurance business and our pipeline remains strong with NIW reaching approximately $2.6 billion in April.
Slide 15 shows the performance of our primary Mortgage Insurance books by vintage where you can see that the most recent books of business which are becoming a much larger portion of our total portfolio have been performing extremely well and are projecting strong returns on capital.
Importantly as of the first quarter the 2009 through 2012 books grew to 31% of our primary risk in force and the most problematic 2006 and 2007 books are down to 31.5% of our primary risk in force.
We view this shift as a positive differentiator for Radian and one of the primary drivers of our expected return to operating profitability in 2013.
Moreover the MI industry volume could benefit in future years from higher mortgage originations increased private MI penetration versus the FHA and the potential opportunity for an expanded private Mortgage Insurance role in the mortgage market.
As we have mentioned in previous calls each $1 billion of NIW is expected to generate approximately $7.5 million in future after-tax value.
Our Financial Guaranty business continues to serve as an important source of capital for Radian Guaranty and we have reduced our net par exposure from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian assets stopped writing new business to $45 billion in the first quarter of 2012 primarily through a series of successful commutations including our recent Assured transactions and our even more recent success in committing a large CDO of ABS exposure and a significant portion of our riskiest TruPs exposure.
These actions have been stacked positive and importantly provide increased likelihood to the future availability of Radian Assets Capital for Radian Guaranty.
It is also worth noting that while we're using its net par exposure Radian Asset has paid out total dividends of $330 million to Radian Guaranty since 2008.
An additional $323 million in contingency reserves remains to support Radian Asset's existing risks representing a potential opportunity to add to Radian Guaranty's statutory capital through future exposure reductions.
Radian Asset expects to pay another dividend to Radian Guaranty in July of approximately $50 million.
As mentioned earlier we continue to project a return to a small level of operating profitability in 2013.
While challenges and uncertainties clearly remain some of which I'll discuss shortly it is important to note that in the scenario of Radian returning to sustained profitability our statutory earnings would be tax-free for a significant period of time due to our substantial NOLs.
Now let's review a few of the major hurdles we must clear in order to achieve the prize.
They are: the performance of our legacy Mortgage Insurance and Financial Guaranty books; the still uncertain macroeconomic environment and the state of the housing market; various regulatory uncertainties including QRM QM and GSE Reform; and the effective management of our statutory capital and holding company liquidity.
Each of these is difficult and will require significant attention and focus.
However we have been engaged in these efforts for quite some time and have consistently demonstrated our ability to overcome obstacles.
In light of the prize we are seeking we will continue to pursue all viable alternatives and opportunities to achieve our objectives.
Let me now review what we are doing today to navigate through these challenges.
First we have taken many actions to improve Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital position in order to keep writing new Mortgage Insurance business.
These actions include internal and external reinsurance reductions in commutations of risk exposure and harvesting investment gains.
Since moving Radian Asset under Radian Guaranty in 2008 we have reduced Radian Asset's net par exposure by 61% allowing us to take advantage of contingency reserve releases that benefit Radian Guaranty's risk to capital.
In the first quarter our risk-to-capital ratio improved to 20.6:1.
In addition to the capital management actions we've already completed we announced an external quarter share reinsurance agreement in April to further support our risk-to-capital ratio going forward for Radian Guaranty and we will keep seeking more alternatives and opportunities.
Absent for the capital support we do expect Radian Guaranty to exceed 25:1 in the latter half of 2012.
However when this occurs we have a plan in place that has been approved by our regulators and the GSEs to continue serving our customers and the housing market uninterrupted through a combination of Radian Guaranty and its subsidiary RMAI.
Second we continue to focus diligently on loss mitigation.
As we continue to work through the troubled 2006 through 2008 books our reserves to support our mortgage insurance losses stands at $3.2 billion today and our primary reserves per default increased this quarter to $27 833.
You will see on Slide 16 of today's presentation that our rescission and denial activity remained steady while we continue to work through the poor underwriting years of 2005 through 2008 while allowing ample time for our customers to challenge our decision and to provide documentation and support for each claim.
However the number of denials has grown significantly in recent months and Bob will discuss this in his remarks.
What is most important to remember is that we continue to pay appropriate claims while enforcing our rights on each poorly underwritten fraudulent or negligent reservist loan.
Our loss mitigation efforts are focused both on helping borrowers while current on their mortgage to improve their ability to stay current as well as on assisting those borrowers who are delinquent but have the means and the desire to fulfill their obligation and stay in their home.
For current borrowers the HARP program continues to gain traction and accounted for $930 million of insurance in the quarter that is not included in our NIW total.
Third there are positive strengths and improving results.
The credit environment appears to be stabilizing and we are encouraged by the continued decline in the number of delinquent mortgage loans in our portfolio as well as the decrease in our primary default rate to 14%.
Finally our industry continues to slowly but steadily regain share from the FHA and we believe private MI market penetration has more than doubled from the beginning of 2010 to its level today.
The FHA has raised prices 3 times in the past 2 years and has clearly stated its intention to reduce its risk and take on a more traditional role in the housing finance market.
More broadly we continue to hear resounding support in Washington for a larger role for private capital including private Mortgage Insurance in the future of housing finance.
Now I would like to turn the call to Bob for details of our financial position.
Bob? Thank you S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the first quarter of 2012 and our financial position as of March 31 2012.
MI provision for losses was $235 million this quarter compared to $333 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $414 million a year ago.
The loss development during the quarter was much improved as we expected with a lower level of new defaults that we attribute partially to seasonality and partially to the slowly improving economy and improving credit composition of our enforced book.
Primary new defaults for the quarter were down by 20% compared to the first quarter of 2011 which was a little better than anticipated.
The recent slowdown in claims paid and increased level of denials led to a reduction in the expected reinsurance recoveries from our soon to expire Smart Home transactions by approximately $27 million which increased our net losses incurred this quarter.
The remaining Smart Home recoverable as of March 31 2012 is $38 million.
We're expecting a continuation of favorable incurred loss trends for the balance of 2012 compared to 2011 and we still expect an operating loss for the year in the MI segment in 2012 and a return to a small level of MI operating profitability for the 2013 year.
Cures during the quarter by bucket are depicted on webcast Slide 13 along with a new separate line that breaks out pending claims from the 12 month plus delinquent loans.
Overall cure levels have improved but are still below our anticipated levels and the cure is coming from the older delinquent loans came down from previous quarters.
The dollar amount of loss avoided on submitted claims related to denials and rescissions for the first quarter 2012 was $246 million compared to the $135 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
These figures are net of the actual returns that occurred during the quarter.
The amounts in our balance sheet representing future expected denials and rescissions is $582 million before considering our IBNR offset for future overturn.
The increased scope of our claim investigations beginning in 2011 has resulted in higher numbers of denials and has slowed down the claims paid level.
To repeat what we said last quarter we believe we have a thorough process which allows the servicer ample time to find documentation or provide additional information before we record our denial or rescission.
We also believe we have cautiously accounted for the recent increased level of denial activity because of the uncertainty around the sustainability of this rate.
In our assumptions approximately 50% of completed denials are expected to be reinstated mainly as a result of servicers ultimately finding and producing the documents necessary to perfect the claim.
You will see a change to Slide 16 where we have estimated the number of future reinstatements that are cumulatively presented on the slide rather than waiting for the actual reinstatements to occur.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio is estimated to be 20.6:1 as of March 31.
The primary drivers of the changes to our risk-to-capital ratio this quarter were additions to stat capital from the Financial Guaranty business primarily from the Assured transaction of which most of the total anticipated $100 million benefit was realized this quarter offset by the MI operating losses which reduced capital.
Radian Guaranty ended the quarter with $920 million of statutory capital.
In terms of future risk-to-capital impact as we announced a few weeks ago we've entered into an external quota share reinsurance policy on our newly written business that will allow us to reduce our net risk in force by an estimated $1.25 billion to $1.6 billion by year end with about half of that benefit coming as of the end of the second quarter this year.
We consider this reinsurance to be an effective way to manage our risk-to-capital ratio in light of our dramatic increase in new insurance written over the past year.
With regard to Financial Guaranty performance the $31 million provision for losses this quarter was driven by a $19 million increase in loss reserves on our Greek sovereign exposure to a current loss reserve of $24 million out of the total exposure of $31 million and some increased reserves on a series of smaller RMBS exposures.
Our quarter end loss reserve on Jefferson County is $26 million compared to our total exposure of $225 million.
While the Assured transaction was positive in that it reduced exposure and produced an increase in stat capital it negatively impacted our GAAP results for the first quarter in 2 ways: first there was a write-off of associated deferred acquisition cost of approximately $16 million; and second there was a negative earned premium impact of $22 million due to the fact that our unearned premium used for settlement purposes was the statutory figure for the difference between it and the GAAP BCR had to be reversed this quarter.
As we announced previously we commuted our large problematic CDO of ABS transactions along with a series of non-investment grade TruPs CDO.
This transaction was another example of our successful track record with mitigating losses in problem Financial Guaranty credits.
In the second quarter we will book a very small statutory gain in the transaction and we will book a loss for GAAP purposes because the commutation payment is higher than our net fair value liability.
The substance of this transaction is as follows: We've eliminated exposure on the $450 million deal that we believe would have been a total loss.
We've also commuted our exposure on $700 million of TruPs.
The transaction eliminates 81% of our B and below rated TruPs and 51% of our B and below rated total portfolio.
For this benefit we paid out $210 million of which we will initially book a projected recovery of $75 million.
This $75 million is still at risk as the actual ultimate recovery will depend primarily on the future performance of the commuted TruPs CDO.
The fair value losses for the first quarter of 2012 were driven mainly by Radian's credit spread tightening which reflects the market's improved view of Radian's outlook.
Within the $18 million net loss in other financial instruments the $15 million gain the company's debt repurchase as part of the tender offer for a portion of the 2013 debt.
Other operating expenses for the quarter increased by $5 million due to the implementation of a new accounting standard for deferred acquisition costs.
Essentially more costs are now being directly expensed in our other operating expenses rather than being deferred and amortized.
In addition we had an operating expense increase of approximately $6 million compared to the last quarter from variable stock-based compensation during the quarter.
As of March 31 2012 the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is approximately $880 million or $6.60 per share.
After the $133 million spent on the tender offer we have approximately $350 million currently available at the holding company.
There are no contributions required to be made to any of our MI subsidiaries this quarter.
Absent any additional capital support we expect Radian Guaranty to breach 25:1 sometime in the latter half of 2012.
More contributions from the holding company are possible during 2012 and beyond including our requirement to provide Radian Mortgage Assurance with $50 million from Radian Group breached 25:1 at Radian Guaranty.
There is also some potential use for some holding company cash when our IRS issue is finalized which could occur in 2012.
The remaining $104 million of our 2013 debt matures next February and we have $250 million of debt maturing over 3 years from now in June of 2015.
I'd like to now turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Before we turn the call over to the operator I would like to reiterate the following points.
One we wrote $6.5 billion in NIW representing a large share of today's high-quality and profitable business.
Two since 2008 we reduced our Radian Asset risk exposure by 61% while paying $330 million in dividends to Radian Guaranty and our statutory surplus now stands at $1.1 billion.
Three at the end of the first quarter our risk-to-capital ratio improved to 20.6:1.
Four we have $350 million available at the holding company liquidity after opportunistically reducing our debt maturing in 2013 by $146 million.
And finally at Radian we are keeping our eye on the prize and focusing on actions that improve the likelihood of achieving the prize for our shareholders.
And now I'd like to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk about your expectations for the pace of paid claims in the second quarter and the remainder of 2012 kind of given the variability we've seen there recently.
Doug we do expect claims paid to increase for the balance of the year.
We did revise our total year expectation to $1.1 billion and the expectation for the next 3 quarters will be in the $300 million range.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then also sort of on the rescissions and denials it spiked up in March.
Was that kind of more unique to something that happened in March or what can you tell us about that level Bob? I think any one month is hard to explain.
So there could be things occurring there at the very beginning of the month or at the end so we really tend to look at the quarters' numbers.
That being said the quarters' numbers are up as well and it's driven mostly by the increase in denials that we attribute to the scope increase that we've put in in 2011 while we're examining substantially all of the claims that we received.
All right and we'll now go to the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bob could you remind us kind of what the reserve implications are from denials? Or did those cease to be past due and therefore you're not allowed to hold reserves against them? Is that right? Or is there actually some accounting for the fact that you assumed that 50% of those will ultimately become valid claims? Yes so once we do finally record the denial and that comes after obviously giving the servicers time to provide the documentation then the denial is booked.
However because of the expectation that 50% will ultimately be reinstated we essentially put up an IBNR to account for that 50% expected reinstatement level.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And how does that 50% reinstatement compare to the experience you've had so far with denials? It's a little bit higher than the actual experience.
So the actual experience has been a little bit lower than that but our expectation is that it will be around 50%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just give us some color on what the most common reasons are for denying claims? Substantially all of that is related to documentation so it's not providing the necessary documentation required to perfect the claim.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Could you help quantify -- I'm sorry if you did this earlier but quantify the GAAP hit that you're going to take in the quarter from the commutation of the CDO of ABS and TruPs transactions? We didn't say it'll be in the 10-Q.
However the reason that is occurring is because the commutation payment is higher than the net fair value liability.
As you know the fair value liability is done in a way that doesn't necessarily reflect settlement value.
It incorporates Radian's credit spread which has a big impact on reducing the fair value liability.
So that's really why it's occurring but the actual amount will be in the 10-Q.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And last can you give us a sense for how many of your remaining Financial Guaranty exposures you view as having the potential to result in additional commutations and what the benefit could be there? This is Dave Beidler.
We're always in talks with counterparties about commutations and recent disclosures highlight a couple of them.
There are benefits there and potential there although it's hard to put a number on it ahead of time.
As we said earlier we have a great track record in terms of our success in commutations.
Since we've dealt with some of the major opportunities we have some smaller opportunities left.
That said we will continue to try and hopefully succeed in the future.
And now we'll go to the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us some clarity around what exactly is the $7.5 billion of European structured exposure? Is that mostly corporate CDOs? Can you repeat that please? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
In your K you -- outline is about $7.5 billion of European structured exposure in the FG unit.
I was wondering is that mostly corporate CDOs? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are any of those European banks? Well with respect to that exposure it's going to be classified as European as the majority of the underlying referenced obligations are European so there would be some European banks within that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and most of those are higher in the capital stack correct? Yes I mean the attachment points for the corporate CDOs 91% of them will have an internal rating of AAA so there's substantial subordination.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with denials could you just maybe give me some clarity on why your experience is different than the rest of the industry as far as servicers are not being able to find paperwork? This is Teresa.
We don't really know what the processes are at some of the other MI companies.
So it's difficult for us to sort of give a comparative in that regard.
But we do let servicers know what we're missing.
We give them a lot of time to try to provide that documentation.
But what we found is that sometimes until we actually give the denial the documents aren't forthcoming.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a broader question.
Do you have a view on kind of when cyclicality will be more dramatic? This quarter I think it's difficult to tell it because of the seasonal impact but just maybe a view on credit and when cyclicality really starts to pull through? This is Scott Theobald.
Listen that's a very tough question.
We continue to see seasonal trends.
We've been anticipating a cyclical recovery in the housing market for at least a few quarters now.
We're still optimistic.
But if the economy starts to grow and the housing market begins to clear that we'll start to see higher house prices and a favorable cyclical impact on our default inventory and future default activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final question what percentage of your new defaults are repeat offenders? About 75% of them.
And now we'll go to the line of David Epstein with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all the first lien reserves were up to 27 833 versus 26 007.
Why were those up so much? The primary reason is really the aging of the portfolio.
So we didn't change our roll rates by bucket.
They're just more loans with a higher reserve.
So pending claims are up and aged delinquencies are up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Slide 12 and as this probably relates to rescissions and denials but can you go into a little bit more detail on why components of provision for losses in regards to existing defaults we're down from 226.9 to 226.57 and you have a footnote there but could you please elaborate a little bit? I mean as the composition changes and this has improved a lot where in the past years we had a significant amount of our occurred losses that were coming from development on existing defaults.
That has come down through 2011 and has continued to come down in 2012.
And in the future we're projecting that most of the incurred loss that we see was driven by the top line or the new default line as opposed to the other two.
Research Division</strong> Does rescissions and denials come into that equation? They do get factored in.
Now we estimate them so if we're right about the estimates then there shouldn't be a net impact.
But intra-quarter there could be some and obviously we revise our estimates as we get new information so there'll always be some movement.
And now we'll go to the line of Matthew Dodson with Edmunds White Partners.
Actually this is John Evans but could you just talk a little bit about -- you did a great job buying back this debt early.
Your capital has gone up at the holding company.
How do you plan to take out the maturities in '13? Cash? Well we have cash at the holding company.
So whether we do it prior to maturity or at maturity it will be done likely be done in that way.
Okay well I guess the question I have for you is and I didn't articulate it very well I apologize.
But will you have -- after that money goes away if you assume that you have a $104 million that goes away you basically have $250-ish million roughly left.
Is that enough do you believe at the holding company or do you need to potentially raise more debt? Well it's something that we'll continually assess.
Obviously we have the '15 as the next major need at the holding company but that's over 3 years from now.
So we will continually assess and we're going to preserve liquidity as best we can and continue to write business at the MI sub which is really the driver of future value.
And now we'll go to the line of Scott Frost with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to make sure the understanding is that you guys are going to -- is it fair to infer that you expect to stop writing business out of Radian Guaranty in the latter half of the year when your risk-to-capital goes over 25:1? And is it your -- that's what we should infer from this right? Not at all and Teresa will answer that.
No in fact the way it works is that we've been seeking waivers from some of the states.
And many of the states don't even have a hard stop with respect to risk-to-capital requirements.
There are only about 16 states that fall into that category.
We've already received waivers from 7 of them and we have applications pending in another 4.
So the idea is that even if we were to go over 25:1 we would continue to write business in Radian Guaranty in the majority of states.
And in the states where we couldn't write business in Radian Guaranty that's why we got approval from the GSEs to write in RMAI Radian Mortgage Assurance and we would write business in just those states in RMAI.
Research Division</strong> So you fully expect RGI to keep writing business through all this business as usual no expectations otherwise right? That's fair to say.
That's correct.
We want to as we've said we have a plan to write business uninterrupted by using a combination of Radian Guaranty and RMAI and we expect to use Radian Guaranty in the majority of the states and RMAI only on those states where we need to and we have approvals from our regulators as well as the GSEs to continue doing that.
Okay and now we'll go to the line of Jordan Bloom [ph] with RBS.
It's actually Dan Vasquez.
So we had a question regarding Slide 13.
Am I reading it right that of all the accounts who have not paid in over a year you only expect 46% of total net default rate on that entire bucket? And just as a follow-up to that I noticed that it's down from 54% in the fourth quarter.
Just wondering if you could comment on what's behind the assumption in the material decrease here? Yes.
The 42% is paid right? So that would be net of the denials and rescissions.
57% would be the claims received.
And the reason it's not comparable with the fourth quarter is we've broken out the pending claims on a separate line in the fourth quarter and prior to that pending claims were always a part of that.
Okay so 46% total is what you expect to pay on all accounts who have not paid in over a year.
Is that the correct assumption at this point in time? That's correct.
Got you.
And one last question on the reinsurance agreement just curious what's your motivation behind reducing the risk through -- it's presumably the more profitable in new insurance and I wonder if you could share anymore details including who the counterparty is? We won't say who the counterparty is and that won't be disclosed.
However the transaction is done to manage our risk-to-capital.
And that's very very important to continue writing.
As you see we've written significant share of the new market and the new business and keeping our risk-to-capital at an appropriate level will enable us to continue to write which should generate significant value.
I'll also point out that after 3 years we do have the ability to commute the transaction depending on obviously that will be our option and it will depend on our capital position.
So if it's performing very very well and our capital position is improved we can commute and take back the business.
As we looked at a set of alternative ways in which we could continue writing the business in our view this represented the best alternative for the shareholders.
It's an indirect way.
It's not quite raising capital but it's an indirect way of getting capital support by transferring a portion of risks.
And we also felt very comfortable with the fact there was somebody a party out there which was strong in credit ratings that believed in our risk and was willing to share our risk.
And now we'll go to the line of Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering do you think the increase in HARP refi activity could do anything to help the ultimate credit losses on those legacy books? Yes we certainly do.
I mean the view is that it should decrease the number of new defaults that we would see from the legacy books to the extent that borrowers can be put in a better position to pay.
And I think it also says something about the borrowers wanting to stay in their homes by making the effort to pursue a refinance.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
And then the HARP volume you're seeing is it still same servicer or do you see loans moving from one servicer to another as well? It's still -- the majority of it is still same servicer.
We are starting to see some particular new servicers really more engaged in the program.
But the majority is still same servicer.
All right and now we'll go to the line of Michael Deuschwitz [ph] with Green Courte [ph].
A couple of questions here.
You mentioned I think in the press release on exhibit I think it's E that the commutation cost of $108 million in cash.
Was that from the holdco or the insurance co.? This was the Assured? Yes.
On the Assured commutation.
It was from the insurance company.
How was that paid? Just from cash in the balance sheet or through loans from somewhere else? Sorry? The computation is in the insurance company.
Was there a loan down to the insurance company for that transaction or just you have paid from the cash on the balance sheet down there? No.
The cash -- the company has significant investments in cash.
Understood okay.
And you said at the end of the statements I think it was kind of fast that the holding company is going to pay $50 million down to the insurance company at some point this year? The holding company is required to contribute $50 million to Radian Mortgage Assurance if and when Radian Guaranty breaches 25:1.
So that's part of the GSE approvals for RMAI.
So that would come from the holding company.
Could it actually grow or is it just $50 million? Is that the max guarantee? That's the requirement.
Okay and just a final question here.
Is there an update on the tax transaction? I think you mentioned last quarter there was about an $80 million or so of tax due to the IRS? There's no real update but that is not the amount due that's the amount that is booked.
We said if there was a settlement at the level that is booked that would be the outflow.
But there's no real update other than we're in negotiation and hope to get a favorable settlement at some point soon.
And now we'll hear from the line of Matthew Howlett with Macquarie.
Just on Financial Guaranty.
I know there's a lot of noise this quarter.
How do we -- how would you commence of the modeling going forward? Should we sort of look at one of the sort of the earning breakeven type results you did in the past? And how do you suggest us to look at that going forward? Yes Matt.
I think that's fair Matt.
There will be things with the obviously the Assured transaction created some items this quarter that impacted GAAP.
If we do things like that in the future there could be some unusual items.
But I think a fair representation is a breakeven go forward.
Got you.
And then would you guys give an update on I think there was a possibility of some CDO holders exercising their walkaway rights in the first quarter.
I know there's some maturities in that coming up but was there any update on that? We had some CDO walkaways in the first quarter supposedly shorter dated exposures but we've seen more activity in that area.
Okay got you.
And then just moving to the U.S.
MI.
Bob you said that the rate of new notices default decline was a little bit higher than your expectations.
I think you guys were guiding to a sort of a 14%-15% year-over-year decline in net new notices.
Anyway it's up a little bit in the first quarter.
Do you expect it to go back toward your guidance in the back half of this year or do you think that the rate that it's heading at is going to be maintained? Yes Matt.
I mean I think it's encouraging that it was a little bit higher than expected.
But I think our projections are for a 14% to 15% decline in both 2012 and '13.
And we haven't updated those.
We'll see what happened in the second quarter and if we have reason to update it we will.
And we'll be very happy if it's better.
And now we'll hear from the line of Jack Micenko with SFG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> RMAI I'm just wondering what the capitalization there is or will it be capitalized for the $50 million.
Just trying to get a sense of what kind of capacity is in that sub.
Today it's about $17 million.
So with another $50 million it would have $67 million.
And that's pretty substantial capacity.
Certainly at the beginning it's got no business in it today.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then looking on Slide 19 the '06 default seemed to inflect a bit in the last several months and rise again slightly.
Anything specific there or anything you could talk about in terms of that '06 trend on the vintage? This is Scott Theobald.
That's mostly the denominator effect as that book slowly fades away.
Now we'll hear from the line of Jeff Pundt with The Dowling and Partners [ph].
Bob what was the IBNR reserve specific to the denials as of quarter end? It went up from last quarter Jeff.
So I'm going to say to say it's over $100 million.
But we'll get you an exact number.
I don't have it right at hand.
Okay and what has your experience been in terms of the timeline for an overturn? It varies Jeff.
We give them a substantial amount of time but sometimes it would come earlier.
But it could go longer.
I would say it varies.
I mean is it fair to say that you'll probably get hit with the overturns this year in the back half? Or with the fourth and first quarter still on the '13 would be -- what's your expectation? I think from the first quarter denials I think yes is the answer.
Okay.
And then lastly you indicated that the cure rates that you're experiencing are a lot slower obviously than what you've booked the reserves to.
What specifically accelerates your performance? That purely the economy and employment trends? Or is there something else out there that you're focused on that will help you realize the rates you're booked to? One of the big things is the completion of a lot of our modification programs because we know that so many of the borrowers are in modification programs in some stage.
And they've been slow to be completed so that's a big thing that we are expecting and we're aiming for.
I guess on that front what percent of your book is currently involved in some form of modification then? We've disclosed that in the past.
It's a hard number to get but it's -- we believe it's in the 20s in terms of the percentage of delinquent loans.
Great.
And now we'll hear from the line of Sean Farrow [ph] with Deutsche Bank.
Just with the breakdown that you guys have given historically on the primary loans in default and the net projected default to claim rate looks like it went up from 45% historically up to 48%.
Just wanted to get a sense of if that was because you guys had broken out the pending claims and had a little bit more detail on the 12 payments or more which includes the pending claims and that being a higher number or why that 45% went to 48% this quarter.
It's not because we broke it out.
It's because there are more loans in the bucket.
Again we didn't change our roll rates by bucket.
The later stage buckets including pending claims which obviously at the highest reserves are bigger component of the reserve and therefore that number is going to go up naturally because of that.
Got you.
And clearly that -- so when we're looking at it kind of historically versus what you guys have disclosed this quarter the 12 payments or more should include the pending claims I mean when you look at the breakdown or when we look at the aggregate of those 2 combined.
That's right.
In the past it has.
Do you know what the apples to apples would be for 12 payments or more and the pending claims on that net projected default to claim rate for this past quarter? It would be very similar very very similar because we haven't -- again we haven't changed by bucket the default to claim rates.
Okay because you guys had about 54% last quarter so probably you're right in line with that? Very very similar yes.
And now we'll go to the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Stelmach.
Real quick you guys said that I think 3 quarters of new defaults are sort of repeat offenders.
Is that the right number that you gave roughly? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And of those any feel for how many were reperforming earlier because of HAMP that will now no longer have that HAMP benefit versus just borrowers were simply bad at managing the cash flow month-to-month and so eventually it eventually would go into delinquent but never really end up in a claim.
Any feel for what percentage that could be? Not off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> I guess in other words do you feel that a higher percentage of repeat defaulters this time around would actually go to claim versus historical experience because a lot of repeat defaulters were reperforming because of HAMP that's no longer available to them.
No I wouldn't go that far.
I don't think there's any change in the opinion as to how these defaults will all sooner be resolved.
Besides that HAMP that as the economy going on there's a number of factors involved such as HAMP.
Research Division</strong> So but nonetheless you should be encouraged by 3/4  sort of being repeat defaulters and perhaps avoiding claim to a large degree than some of the newly defaulted...
No.
To the extent that they repeat default demonstrate that it could cure at least one step is actually a good sign.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then Bob just on Page 13 not to continue to hash this out but I think most folks look at the 12 months plus gross claim rate of 57% the question that's always asked is why is that not 100%.
Can you -- obviously you're net down of 46% after rescissions and denials but can you just sort of bridge that gap for us? Is that sort of Radian's historical experience in terms of those late stage buckets? Is it sort of bottoms up loan by loan analysis on what you think those borrowers will ultimately do or how they've also reperformed.
How should we think about that? Why is that not 100%? First of all the actual experience has been less than this.
So that's the first point.
And then there are really 4 reasons why we think that many of these 12 plus loans will not be submitting claims to us.
The first one is that we do have an existing cure rates.
It's been running about 4% per quarter.
We've been disclosing that so that demonstrates that some of the loans are actually curing.
Second we talked about this big modification efforts by services by the government new programs and significant amounts of our loans are in MOD programs.
The thing you have to realize is that a lot of these loans are 12 plus because the borrowers have chosen not to pay their claims or I'm sorry not to pay their mortgage because they want a deal.
They want a mod or they want some sort of a program.
So they're really not the same as historical 12 months delinquent loans.
We know from doing the outreach efforts that we've done that a lot of borrowers have the ability to pay.
They're waiting because there maybe -- they may get a deal that decreases their payment.
And some of them if time goes on enough have improved their economic situation gotten a job and we find the majority do not want to leave their home.
They want to stay in their home.
And then the fourth one and we've spoken about this but it's hard to quantify is that a lot of the older loans are aging not just 12 plus but 2 3 4 years.
And we think there's a reason why they're not becoming claims either documentation title servicing and a lot of the external models that we look at that estimate MI reserve actually start taking down the roll rates as the loans become significantly aged.
So for all of those reasons we think are 57% of roll rate is appropriate for the 12 plus delinquent months.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And on the aging when is the contractual obligation void for you guys to pay the claim like after how long? 3 years 4 years? There's nothing that says if a loan is of certain amount of time age that we won't pay the claim.
It's just that there's a good sign if something is  3 4 5 years that something else is going on that might affect it.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it could be that that loan still goes to foreclosure yet the claim never comes through to Radian because of those reasons? This age portfolio there's not enough documentation to actually file the claim? Because they've gone through foreclosure or they get the foreclosure for a different reason not complete it.
You would logically expect once a loan gets to that stage that servicers would want to get it foreclosed and get the money back to the investors.
And if that hasn't happened in 2 years there has to be some reason as to why it hasn't happened.
Research Division</strong> Right yes.
And so in other words what's bridging the gap between the private label markets is that 100% of that 12 months plus bucket goes in the foreclosure and what is actually a claim to an MI company are 2 very different things.
That's right.
And I will turn the conference back over to Mr.
Ibraham.
Well I'd like to thank you all for participating on our call and see you again next quarter.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
With that being said I'll turn the conference now to Ms.
Emily Riley Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And welcome to Radian's Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and it as well as the slides that will be referenced during today's call have been posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty; and Derek Brummer Chief Risk Officer and General Counsel of Radian Asset.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the Risk Factors included in our 2011 Form 10-K.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
And thank you all for joining us.
Today I will first provide brief highlights of our quarterly results then I will focus my remarks on the topics that we believe are most important to you: how we at Radian continue to expand our mortgage insurance franchise and capture a larger share of new high-quality business while effectively mitigating losses in our legacy portfolio what we're doing to reduce our risk exposure in financial guaranty and provide important capital support for our MI business and how we are managing our capital and positioning Radian for success and a return to profitability.
Next Rob will cover the details of our financials and then I'll provide a few summary points before we open the call to your questions.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the second quarter of $119 million or $0.90 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value and other financial instrument losses of $95 million which consisted primarily of the impact from the April commutation of our troubled CDO of ABS transaction and certain TruPs exposure.
As you know commuting these exposures and removing this risk for Radian was a critical achievement that helped us further reduce our financial guaranty risk and preserve our capital.
Bob will discuss the accounting implications during his remarks.
At June 30 2012 our book value per share was $6.75.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio remains steady at 21:1 in the second quarter.
The maintenance of our risk-to-capital ratio over time has been achieved by the many actions we have taken to manage our risk-to-capital position including internal and external reinsurance reductions in commutations of risk exposure and by realizing investment gains.
We believe that Radian is positioned to continue writing new high-quality mortgage insurance business uninterrupted well into the future.
Now let me turn to the topics that we believe are top of mind.
First we continue to write more new mortgage insurance business with outstanding credit quality that can generate strong returns.
In recent months we have been capturing the largest share of new mortgage insurance business than ever before in our history in an exceptionally competitive but high-quality market.
In the second quarter we wrote $8.3 billion of new mortgage insurance business and wrote $14.8 million through the end of the second quarter.
We wrote 3x as much of new business as in the first half of 2012 as we did in the first half of last year and the momentum continued in July with another $3.4 billion of new business written.
The business written in the month of July alone is estimated to generate $20 million in after-tax value over its life after adjusting for reinsurance and perhaps even more if the credit performance is better than expected as has been the case with our most recent originations.
There's no denying that our sales and customer service teams have hussled.
Their energy and enthusiasm help to set Radian apart as we continue to increase the amount of business we are writing.
We have successfully retained our traditionally strong share of business from the nation's largest lenders while steadily increasing our business volume from credit unions community banks and independent mortgage lenders.
In fact 18% of our NIW in 2012 came from customers new to Radian since last year and nearly 40% from the approximately 1 100 customers new to Radian since 2008.
Importantly as of the second quarter the 2009 and -- through 2012 books grew to more than 35% of our primary risk in force and the most problematic 2006 and '07 books are now down to just under 30%.
If the pace of our new business volume continues we expect that by mid-2013 our book of business written after 2008 will be larger than the book written in 2008 and prior.
We view this shift as a positive factor that differentiates Radian and view it as one of the primary drivers of our expected return to operating profitability in 2013.
Second we continue to focus on mitigating losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio.
There are positive trends and improving results in our legacy book as the total number of deposit loans continues to decline.
The default rate on our primary books fell further in the second quarter to 13% and the default rate on primary flow business fell below 10%.
As we continue to work through the challenging 2006 through 2008 books our reserve to support our mortgage insurance losses stands at $3.2 billion today and our primary reserve for default increased again this quarter to $28 413.
You will find the details of our rescission and denial activity on Slide 19 of our webcast presentation.
These rates remained steady and elevated as we work through the legacy books where underwriting and servicing shortcomings are prevalent.
As you can see on Slide 20 our denial activity has increased with most of the denials coming from one servicer.
Bob will provide more details on this in a moment.
What is most important to remember is that we continue to pay appropriate claims and have paid in excess of $5 billion since 2008 while enforcing our rights on fully underwritten fraudulent or negligently serviced loans.
Third our financial guaranty business continues to serve as an important and unique source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
We have reduced our net core exposure from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $42 billion in the second quarter of 2012 primarily through a series of successful commutations a reduction of total financial guaranty risk exposure by 64%.
Importantly as you can see on Slide 25 our long-duration muni exposure was reduced by 74% since 2008.
Our remaining structured finance exposure consists primarily of our corporate CDO book.
As you can see on Slide 28 of the $20.2 billion in corporate CDO exposure $10.1 billion or half matures by the end of 2013 and the remainder by the end of 2017.
Since 2008 Radian Asset has paid Radian Guaranty a total of $384 million in dividends including the most recent dividend of $54 million.
Radian Asset expects to pay another dividend of approximately $40 million to Radian Guaranty next year.
In May Radian Asset also released $55 million of contingency reserves with the approval of the New York Department of Financial Services which increases the total release of contingency reserves related to the direct book since 2008 to $270 million.
As mentioned earlier in April we significantly improved the credit profile of our financial guaranty book by commuting our large CDO of ABS exposure and a significant portion of our riskiest TruPs exposure.
An additional $288 million in contingency reserves remains to support Radian Asset's existing risk representing a potential opportunity over time to add to Radian Guaranty's statutory capital as the exposure is ultimately reduced and contingency reserves are released.
Fourth we continue to project a return to a small level of operating profitability in 2013.
While the challenge of our economy and legacy portfolio clearly remains we believe on our -- we believe based on our experience and trends that we will achieve a small operating profit next year.
Finally our industry continues to slowly but steadily regain share from the FHA and we believe the private MI market penetration has more than doubled from the beginning of 2010 to its level today.
The FHA has reached twice as 4x in the past 2 years and has clearly stated its intention to reduce its risk and take on a more traditional role in the housing finance market.
More broadly we continue to hear resounding support in Congress for a larger role for private capital including private mortgage insurance in the future of housing finance.
At this time it appears unlikely that any significant legislation impacting our industry will be taken up before the election.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the second quarter of 2012 and our capital and liquidity positions as of June 30 2012.
The MI provision for losses was $208 million this quarter compared to $235 million last quarter and $270 million a year ago.
The improved loss development this quarter was driven by the decline in new defaults due primarily to the improving credit composition of our in force book.
Primary new defaults for both the second quarter and for the first half of the year are down by 20% compared to 2011.
First time default which we view as more likely to ultimately become a claim and repeat default continued to decline.
In the second quarter first time defaults was 4 867 compared to 5 565 in the first quarter this year and 6 953 in the second quarter of 2011.
We believe that this new default trend will continue as a result of the changes in our book composition and improved HARP results.
We expect a larger MI operating loss in the second half of 2012 compared to the first half due to seasonality and expect a small operating profit for the year 2013 which assumes the continuation of improved new default trends and no material adverse reserve development or unexpected financial guaranty loss.
The amount in our June 30 balance sheet representing future expected denials and rescissions is $532 million.
The IBNR reserve relating to future overturn of already-denied and rescinded policies is approximately $224 million.
As we've previously disclosed approximately 50% of the currently outstanding denials are expected to be reinstated mainly as a result of servicers ultimately finding and producing the documents necessary to perfect the claim within the time frame allowed under our master policy.
While our experience clearly supports this estimate it is important to note that this assumption is not very material to our overall loss reserve estimate.
For example even if the reinstatement percentage shifted significantly to 75% the resulting addition to our total loss reserves will only be about $97 million.
Because our recent denial figures have been skewed by one large servicer we have separated the specific denial information for this servicer on the Default Rollforward Slide 20.
This servicer represented about 30% of our defaults and 72% of our denials in the second quarter and we believe that the denial line excluding this servicer is more representative of our overall denial trend.
We've also updated the information relating to our default inventory that we introduced in June and that's on a Slide 13 and 14.
We show delinquent loans for which at least one payment was made during the quarter but remained in default which demonstrates the borrower's commitment to pay and new defaults that have been in and out of default multiple times which are defaults that have historically gone to claim at a lower rate than first time defaults.
We believe that the numbers and trends on these slides help provide support for our default-to-claim estimates.
In addition Slide 15 shows the aging of our delinquencies.
Many of our older delinquencies remain in the early stages of resolution meaning that no foreclosure action has started.
We reviewed -- we are reviewing the servicing of many older delinquencies to ascertain whether foreclosure time lines dictated by our master policy were violated.
Based on our preliminary analysis we believe that a meaningful percentage of these delinquencies to the extent they do become claims will be subject to claim curtailments or denial and thus will not become fully paid claims.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio is estimated to be 21.0:1 as of June 30.
The primary driver of the slight increase to our risk-to-capital ratio this quarter was the addition to net risk in force from our substantial new returns written though some of this increase was offset by risks stated under our quota share reinsurance.
Radian Guaranty ended the quarter with $923 million of statutory capital up slightly from last quarter and additions to our statutory capital from the financial guaranty business were mostly offset by MI operating losses.
For the next few quarters we expect our strong new insurance volume will continue to increase our net risk in force and operating losses in the second half of the year will decrease our capital level.
These effects could potentially be offset by investment gains that are currently embedded in our portfolio by reinsurance or by capital contribution.
With regard to financial guaranty performance there were minimal incurred losses during the quarter.
As some of you probably saw we expanded our financial guaranty disclosure during the quarter by listing on our website the specific details regarding much of our direct-structured finance portfolio and information regarding a publicized municipal credit.
As we announced last quarter we commuted our $450 million problematic CDO of ABS transaction along with a series of TruPs CDOs for which the collective exposure of just under $700 million was reduced to a $75 million recovery.
This $75 million is still at risk and the ultimate recovery will depend primarily on the future performance of the commuted TruPs CDO.
Because the fair value of these transactions prior to the commutation was impacted by Radian's credit spread which reduced the fair value liability we recognized a combined loss of $108 million for GAAP purposes essentially representing the difference between our payment and the fair value liability that existed.
$64 million of that loss is the portion related to the CDO of ABS and is contained on the gain in loss another financial instrument line and the balance relating to the TruPS is contained within the changing fair value of derivatives line.
Importantly the statutory impacted the transaction this quarter with a small gain and hence a small addition to statutory capital.
As always Slide 9 depicts our current balance sheet fair value position along with the expected net credit losses or recovery on fair value exposures.
There is currently a net credit recovery as the majority of the previous quarter's expected payment which was the CDO of ABS commutation payment and we currently expect to recover the payment made with regard to the TruPS.
If our projections are correct regarding the future credit loss payments and recoveries we will see an addition of approximately $196 million to our pretax book value over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is arrived at by taking the net balance sheet liability of $138 million and adding the present value of credit loss recovery of $58 million and both of these numbers are shown on Slide 9.
The $7.7 million gain on sale of affiliates is from the sale of the financial guaranty shell which completed the Assured Guaranty transaction.
As of June 30 2012 the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is approximately $924 million or $6.92 per share.
Although we believe this amount will be realized in the future and we would not have to pay taxes on significant future profits this GAAP valuation allowance will only be reversed if and when we demonstrate a sustained level of profitability.
During the quarter and in July we purchased approximately $24 million of our 2013 debt at a modest discount.
We have approximately $340 million currently available at the holding company and our remaining 2013 debt outstanding is down to $80 million.
There were no contributions required to be made to any of our MI subs this quarter.
Absent any additional risk-to-capital support we still expect Radian Guaranty to breach 25:1  sometime in the second half of 2012.
Contributions from the holding company are possible during 2012 and beyond including our requirement to provide Radian Mortgage Assurance with $50 million from Radian Group when we bridge 25:1 at Radian Guaranty.
There is also potential use of some holding company cash when our IRS issue is finalized which may occur in 2012.
As a reminder we have $250 million of debt maturing just under 3 years from now in June of 2015.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Before we turn to the operator I would like to summarize 4 important points.
First we wrote $8.3 billion in NIW in the second quarter representing what we believe is the largest share of today's high-quality and profitable business.
And we wrote another $3.4 billion in July.
Second since 2008 we reduced our Radian Asset risk exposure by 64% while paying $384 million in dividends to Radian Guaranty and releasing $270 million in contingency reserves.
And our statutory surplus stands at $1.2 billion.
Third at the end of the second quarter we maintained a steady risk-to-capital ratio of 21:1.
And finally we have $340 million currently available in holding company liquidity after taking advantage of opportunities to continue reducing our 2013 debt which now has a remaining balance of $80 million.
And now operator I would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first from the line of Jasper Burch with Macquarie.
I guess just starting off with your expectation for profitability in 2013.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color around sort of milestones to get there.
I know Bob you said that you're expecting continuing the current default trends.
Does that mean to get there you're expecting continued 20% year-over-year decline in new notices? And then what are you expecting on the new business to add? Jasper yes this is Bob.
I think we're expecting a continuation of the decline in new defaults.
I think we said 15% from 2012 to 2013 but I think that's fair.
I think we're running a little bit ahead of that now our expectation with regard to new business.
I think that that's not going to impact our expectation with regard to profitability in '13 that much.
However certainly it helps in terms of generating additional premiums so that's certainly a good thing.
And then obviously we caveat we say look if you look at the incurred loss development it's been mostly due to the new defaults so the incurred losses have been due to the new defaults and not the prior development which we saw in prior years and we're expecting that trend to continue as well as well as no more unexpected financial guaranty loss.
So given that our projections are showing profitability in 2013.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess sort of on a different note: I just noticed you guys had a paid claim on the financial guaranty book.
What was that in the quarter? We actually had a recovery.
I believe you probably see a negative.
There was a recovery of -- as is sometimes happens within the business you pay something out but then you get a recovery.
So that's what happened.
And next in line is Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question.
You had a pretty steady decline in the average claim paid over the last 3 quarters claims side that is.
What's behind that? And what's your expectations there going forward? Books it's mostly Mark due to the curtailments that have been increasing as of the recent past.
We've all read about the servicing issues that are out there and we have curtailed more regarding those claims.
And we do expect that to continue for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
How much longer should we expect to see this kind of elevated level of denials? Well specifically with respect to denials since a lot of the denials are now driven by servicing practices that's what is driving the denial issue.
And the servicing practice are not changing.
Having said that though I -- before I turn it over to Teresa for more details a lot of the denials are coming from -- most of our denials are coming from indeed 75% from one servicer.
And to the extent that we can resolve some of the issues that are related to that servicer there could be a change in our denial box here.
But I'll let Teresa explain the mechanics of our denials in more detail.
Yes.
I would say that as you can expect these servicing practices are increasingly critical to mitigating our risk of loss.
And the flaws with servicing practices have now been well documented.
While we have not increased the number of documents that we require we have increased our enforcement of receiving our documents within the time frames provided under the master policy.
As an example the receipt of the servicing notes is very important in evaluating whether a curtailment of a claim is warranted.
It's important to note that the master policy terms give servicers ample time to produce documents and that even after a denial servicers have one year from acquisition of title to produce the document.
That is the reason why our IBNR reflects an assumption that 50% will be resubmitted with the appropriate documents.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's 50% reinstatement rate how consistent is that across servicers? Do you see some in a variation where some were a lot higher and some were lower? Or are you seeing that pretty consistently across most servicers? On -- this is Scott Theobald.
There is various -- variations of product servicers and their ability to produce those documents.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one more I would...
In fact I would point out that even the denial rate is not consistent across the reserves because some servicers can produce documents right upfront.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then finally despite some pretty significant commutations and this low volatility the financial guaranty premium line has held around $16 million.
Is that a reasonable run rate or should we expect that to decline going forward? Yes I mean it should decline over time certainly as the book has declined.
This quarter I think there was some refunding which helped the earned number and we know that can cause some volatility in the line.
But over time you're going to see that go down.
Our next question is from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bob I was hoping to just drill more into that to your comment.
Do you expect a larger seasonal loss in the back half of this year? I guess the point there -- I guess the question I had was -- the first half saw a large increase in reserves per default.
Now are you -- does that comment anticipate something like that continuing to occur? Or is it just sort of more on the higher -- lower cures higher notices? Yes I think it's the latter.
Remember we haven't really changed our default-to-claim expectations.
The reason that the reserves for default is up is more due to the composition changes than anything.
And yes seasonally we do expect typically in the fourth quarter especially but in the second half of the year generally you get a higher level of new notices and a lower level of cures.
Research Division</strong> But you're not necessarily anticipating any big changes to those reserves for defaults?.
We're not.
And the line of David Epstein with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Is it purely a function of seasonality that your cures on early-stage delinquencies were down in Q2 from Q1? Yes we -- yes seasonally the first quarter is always the best for cures.
And we'll go to the of Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Talking about the late-stage bucket on default side on Pages 14 and 15 on the deck.
Thanks for the additional color by the way.
The bullet at the bottom of 15 where you talk about servicing the oldest delinquent loans to determine whether foreclosure time lines are violated.
Obviously we touched on a paperwork time frame.
But can you just expand on that bullet a little bit more around the time line and what time line are you're speaking of? Yes we mean we -- the servicers are required to begin the foreclosure within 6 months from the default and then may have 1 year to perfect the claim after that.
So those are the general time frames within our master policy.
Now of course there could be some things within the law that extend that but those are the general guidelines.
So we're really looking at 18 months from default that the -- that's the time frame: the 6 months plus the year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So this sort of imply obviously a significant amount of late-stage may see some rescission going forward.
And then on Page 14 the breakout of the new defaults and the previously delinquent I'm wondering if anecdotally you can share with us what that chart would look like if we apply that to the late-stage component of the book.
Now what's the new default composition there relative to -- obviously early defaults are going to be more previously delinquent I would guess but can you give us any sense on how many have gone into that late-stage and are not -- I mean you've got -- we've got the payment numbers on terms of days from default but can you give a breakout out on the late-stage bucket as you have on 14? This is Scott Theobald.
I don't have the late-stage bucket in front of me.
But for the total default inventory about half of the defaults have made one or more -- is a repeat defaults.
Our next question is from Shawn Faurot with Deutsche Bank.
I don't know if I missed it in the prepared commentary but did you guys talk about the [indiscernible] tax issue and kind of timing and any updates on that? We didn't Shawn but there's really no update other than we're still in negotiation.
And it's possible that it would be resolved in 2012 but it's also possible that it would go on and potentially be -- even be litigated if an agreement cannot come to pass.
But you guys have the -- I mean do you feel like you have the ability to push that off as it relates to the holdco liquidity? And any news there? It would...
Well as it -- yes to the extent that it would -- a settlement may require cash in 2012.
If there was no settlement then it would be pushed off.
Okay.
And then single versus monthly premiums I mean I know you guys have been increasing disclosure around that.
Can you talk about the current market and why people are looking for one versus the other or why you guys would be targeting -- it seems like you guys clearly have been targeting monthly premiums and have been getting some pushbacks from other competitors as to -- you guys look doing more on the single premium front.
Can you talk about that dynamic a little bit and just so we can get a little bit more color? First let me talk about our philosophy and then Teresa can give you color on the market.
In terms of philosophy we take the view at Radian that we cannot forecast whether a loan is going to be on the books for 5 years or 7 years so we cannot forecast persistency rate.
Indeed if you would have asked people even 3 months ago what the -- they would've said that persistency would continue to remain low and in fact we are seeing it trend up as refinancing activity in the industry has taken off.
And there's a likelihood it would taken -- take off some more in the case of some borrowers as property values start creeping up.
So our view is to try and achieve the best balance and we believe the current mix somewhere in the range of 30% to 40% single premiums gives us an ability to balance our returns over the long term.
And indeed to the extent that persistency -- and since a lot of our single premiums are 90% LTV borrowers who we believe have a higher propensity to refinance indeed if persistency comes down and it is more skewed towards the single premiums we will benefit from having realized the premium and the risk going away faster.
Having said that Teresa could give you a color -- some color on the market.
Well I would say I think first with respect to our pricing we believe that the pricing for both our monthly and single premium products is profitable.
Having said that I think if you go back and look at 2010 into 2011 the single premiums were one of the products that was most competitive with the FHA.
And now with all of the changes that have occurred from a pricing point of view in terms of us reducing the pricing on our monthly MI and the FHA having increased theirs there's been a lot more opportunity to push the monthly MI product and in addition to all the training we've done with loan officers and lenders.
So I think that's why you've seen that trend happen over time because the monthly product has become a lot more competitive in -- with the FHA.
That's helpful.
One more just the recoveries that you guys talk about on Slide 9 as it relates to the financial guaranty business.
Can you talk about that a little bit more and how that's structured and time line for those recoveries and if you guys have any expectations there? Yes I mean it's really based on -- it's going to be based on the performance of the commuted TruPS CDOs that was part of the commutation transaction.
And we're going to have to see how they perform.
And essentially if there are no losses on them we'll get that money back.
And if there are losses that money could go toward the losses.
Now it's capped at that amount so it can't be any more than that.
That's why we say our exposure has been reduced to that level.
And that's 200-something million? Is that...
No no no.
That -- it's the primary component of the number down below that negative $72.2 million in financial guaranty.
But that's present value right? The total amount what's the total amount not present value do you know? It's not much more than that.
Our next question is from Randy Raisman [ph] with Marathon.
I just want to dig a little bit more on kind of -- you put in your materials guidance saying you still believe your paid claims will be $1.1 billion for the full year.
And you're kind of telling us that the risk-to-capital is going to go greater than 25x.
And you're saying you're expecting up an increase in losses in the second half of the year but then you're talking about turning profitable in 2013.
And what's going to drive that big shift? Because to go from 21 to 25 implies some significant losses we're going to start seeing.
So do I then go from that to being profitable? And then I have one other question after that.
Well if you look at the components of the risk-to-capital risk divided by capital you'll see that a move from 21 to 25 doesn't take that much.
It's a pretty sensitive kind of calculation.
So I think a move from 21 to 25 absent and we were very clear in saying absent any additional risk-to-capital support.
So given just the results of the business where we're writing a lot of business that's a good thing for the business but that increases the numerator or the risk.
And due to seasonality we expect MI operating losses in the second half of the year.
Both of those will be items that serve to increase the risk-to-capital ratio.
Now we've done a lot of internal things as you've seen internal reinsurance external reinsurance certainly investment gains which we have in our portfolio and all of that could serve to offset the increases to our risk-to-capital.
So we're going to have to follow it and see how it plays out.
We're set up to continue writing if you we go above 25:1 which is very important.
But it isn't a number that requires a lot to move it's a fairly sensitive calculation.
Right.
And then can you just expand a little on the comment you made the whole IBNR and a potential restatement issue? I just want to make sure I'm completely clear on that and that I have all those numbers.
So you've reserved $224 million for claims that could potentially result in $500 million in losses.
And you think that as long as your estimates are right then there's no further impact to capital and if not then obviously you would need to true up the reserve from the $224 million to the -- to whatever it ultimately ends up getting put back to you.
Is that the right way to think about that? Just to be clear the reinstatement that's what you were getting at.
Yes yes I'm sorry.
Yes.
So 2 different items but we always disclose them so everyone understands what they are.
The first one is that $524 million -- was that what it was -- $500 million relating to future expected denials and rescissions.
So we are expecting that in the future we will deny or rescind net $500 million-plus give or take in the future and that number is an offset to a loss reserve.
So there's a gross reserve number but then we offset our loss reserve and we report based on that net number.
So that's a component of our loss reserves.
If our rescission denial assumptions are too low and they're higher then there's a benefit.
If they're too high then it would go the other way.
The other thing is that $224 million which is the component of the IBNR.
It's not the whole IBNR but it's the component relating to reinstatements of denials that were already denied but can be reinstated if the documentation is provided and that's 50% that we're talking about.
So does that mean then the $224 million those are reserves you've taken on claims you've denied for whatever -- because you think there's a problem with documentation or whatever the case may be and that $224 million is basically 50% of what you've denied? So is your thinking more...
Yes that's exactly right.
Yes it's exactly right.
So we're basically taking credit for 1 out of 2 because we have the expectation that the other one is going to come back.
And we include that in our reserve estimate so we make sure that when a denial has come back then we don't have to adjust the reserve they're built into the reserves.
And then the $524 million for future expected denials.
I mean and that is a -- that goes -- that sort of -- you bring your reserve down by that amount.
So I mean how much kind leeway do you have in kind of coming up with that $524 million number? Just because that's a pretty big deduct from incurred losses.
So I just kind of want to understand the process behind that.
Well there's no leeway.
I mean it's based on history it's based on trends it's an audited number annually that needs to be justified and we do just that.
So we only put that number out there and normally include it in our reserves when there's justification based on history and based on what we see in the inventory.
It's a very significant part of our reserve estimate that requires much support and justification.
And without using that our reserves would not be accurate because if you step back and look at the reserves the expectation of future losses and therefore the gross losses we take are adjusted by the denials and rescissions which is an established past trend.
So it has to be done that way.
Our next question is from Conor Ryan with Saba Capital.
I was just curious going through some of your reserve per new delinquent information.
Just based on backing into what percentage of your -- or what amount of your loss reserves were associated with new versus existing.
And it looked to me like your "cure ratio assumption" had declined a little bit this quarter.
Is that something that we can kind of expect going forward or is that sort of momentary in nature? Yes the individual -- Conor the individual assumptions haven't changed.
So if there is an increase in $0.03 or fewer it could be that there are more that 3 as opposed to 2.
It's going to be maybe composition within a bucket but the individual assumptions really haven't changed.
Yes right.
But I guess what I'm saying is if I look at Slide 11 Components of Provision for Losses...
Okay.
Based on the number of new delinquents you have it looks like the reserve per new delinquent was roughly  $8 540.
Right.
But again a new default this quarter could be 3 months down or 2 months down.
There are differences.
It could be loan size.
It's going to be the individual characteristics of the loan as opposed to a change in our assumptions regarding any of those things.
Okay.
So it's loan by loan.
Because it just looks to me like if you take that number as a percentage of your paid claim number for the quarter it had dropped decently.
Yes that's going to be more coincidence than anything.
I think we're -- our -- again our assumptions regarding the default-to-claim rate have not changed.
Okay.
I was just curious.
It's been relatively consistent in the past.
The next question is from Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually first on -- your HARP refi activity number was quite up a bit.
I was wondering was there anything you guys changed or was that just the market? This is Teresa.
I think it was just the market.
I mean we continue to see those servicers ramp up their participation and so -- and in particularly with some of the program changes that really took place in March we really started to see that increase even more.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just going back to the profit expectation you gave on the new business you're writing.
I was just curious what sort of loss assumptions are being incorporated? It's a projection that takes our loss ratio to about I'd say mid 30s or so.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I meant just on the new business so the $20 million of profit on new business that you wrote this year.
Well that's -- yes that's what I'm talking about.
It's a -- it's not for example looking at the past couple of years which have performed better than expectations.
This is more sort of an average expectation based on a longer history than just the recent past.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a quick follow-up on the single premium discussion.
Do you know what percentage of the market is single premium? I don't think we know that answer.
And we'll go to Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the new business side can you talk about any guideline changes or products that you're finding the market's most receptive to and driving the new business? Well I think one of the important factors in terms of the new business is part of what S.A.
talked about in terms of the number of new customers that we brought on board.
And that's been a huge driver in addition to working with our existing customers to increase the amount of business that we're getting from them.
I think the one underwriting program that we put in place has certainly made it easier for customers to do business with us.
But I think a lot of it has been around training and relationships and the customer service that we provide.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so nothing on maybe a particular LTV or...
No nothing like that.
As you saw from our numbers I mean the LTV mix remains very strong very high quality and relatively stable so the credit factors continue to remain very strong.
It has been mostly our success in focusing on -- and not just recently but for the last few years focusing on expanding our sales force and going after more customers segment by segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one question on the -- on Page 20.
As this one servicer that has a lot of denials related to it transfer servicing to others would you expect the trend to change at all? Or is it your expectation that once they can't find the document to give you they're not going to be able to transfer to a new servicer to find it for you? This is Scott Theobald.
This is after claim submission.
And so once something is at the claim model it's not going to get transferred anymore.
Our next question is from Anand Krishnan [ph] with For Research [ph].
Question related to the disclosure on Slide 20 the value separated out denials related to one servicer.
I just wanted to check what has been the historic reinstatement with experience from this servicer.
Appreciate you taking the question.
Yes we wouldn't give any individual reinstatement rates for any individual servicer.
Because the reason you separated that out is so that it's coming from one servicer so it's a disproportionate proof model on denials.
So I just wanted to see if -- how to think about the go-forward reinstatement.
Look our -- to the extent that it's a big component of our overall denials it's going to be a bigger component of the reinstatement percentage that we estimate.
But we don't -- we wouldn't break it out individually by the -- our overall denial reinstatement is 50%.
Our next question is from Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> On the curtailment review you talked about do you have any kind of sizing color you could provide us? What type of opportunity do you think there is to reduce gross severities given the extended time lines? Is there something maybe 10% 20% opportunity? I was just going to say I mean I don't think we can estimate a sizing on that.
It really is a loan-by-loan kind of analysis with respect to what the issues have been.
And over time -- we've had curtailments that have been done for a number of reasons over time.
We've seen an increase in the amount that are due to servicing negligence which you wouldn't be surprised to see.
But until we look at each individual loan we just don't know what that is going to entail.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And obviously when we're dealing with the dollars here we have to be concerned about pushback from the counterparty.
Is it very clear in the documentation what would constitute a curtailment opportunity? Or is this another one of those things where like rescission or denials we might have to consider some overturn decisions down the road? Geoff this is Scott Theobald.
When we actually pay the claim in those curtailments are servicing related part of the explanation for the curtailment will be very specific as to what the servicing issues were what the infractions were.
Having said that we do expect to be challenged on some of these.
However we make it very clear what the servicing infractions are that the curtailment is designed to mitigate.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then last question: With respect to denials what's the typical time line? And I know it can be vary and be lumpy but what's the typical time line for a response on a denial? And if it's  shorter time frame have the ramp-up on that one particular servicer and their denial response been consistent with that? There's -- the time frame of responding kind of varies: multiple requests for the documents to come in.
And after those multiple requests are exhausted then a denial goes out.
Even after the denial goes out they still have the one year from the acquisition of title before it actually -- they can't resubmit.
So the time frame that kind of depends.
And from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just answered all my curtailment questions but I got a quick one on average premiums.
As you guys are writing a lot of new business credit quality for that business is still very very strong indicative of what is probably a pretty tight lending environment there.
To the extent that lenders begin to loosen the purse strings a little bit is there a chance for average FICOs to migrate down LTVs up and maybe average premiums to go a little bit higher from here? Or sort of what we see is what we get? What's sort of trajectory in premiums? Yes I mean I think it's pretty much what you see is what you get.
I mean there certainly could be changes in the mix from 90 to 95 LTVs which do have different premium rates for that that could occur.
But we haven't seen any degradation in the credit lines.
Yes and I would say that with respect to the GFC pricing as long as the LLPAs continue to be in effect I wouldn't expect to see us get much different than the FICO levels that we're seeing today just because I think from a pricing point of view it would still push that business towards the FHA.
Also I think the lenders are waiting to see more clarity on the Q1 definition and other factors.
So right now; in talking with them it doesn't appear that they are really in any way trying to push the envelope.
If anything most of them are operating well inside the box that they could be operating at.
And that will conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I'll turn it back to our host for any closing comments.
Well thank you operator.
And I'd like to thank everybody for participating on this call.
See you guys on the next call.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen does that conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
With that being said I'll turn the conference now over to the Vice President of Financial Communications Ms.
Emily Riley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and it's posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty; and Derek Brummer Chief Risk Officer and General Counsel of Radian Asset.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the Risk Factors included in our 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent reports and registration statements filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily and thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
I will start off today offering highlights of our quarterly results and the strong progress we've made against our goals and then focus my comments on the topics we believe are most important to you.
First how we at Radian continue to grow our mortgage insurance franchise and capture a larger amount of new high-quality business while effectively mitigating losses in our legacy portfolio.
Second what we are doing to mitigate our mortgage insurance legacy losses and reduce risk exposure in financial guaranty to provide important capital support to our mortgage insurance business.
And third how we are managing our capital and positioning Radian for success and a return to operating profitability.
Bob will then cover the details of our financial position and I will provide a few closing comments before we open the call to your questions.
Earlier today we reported a net income for the third quarter of $14 million or $0.11 per diluted share which is comprised of $31 million of income in the mortgage insurance segment and a $17 million loss in the financial guaranty segment.
This includes the impact of fair value and other financial instrument losses of $42 million as well as net gains on investments of $85 million.
At September 30 2012 our book value per share was $6.85.
In the third quarter Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio improved to 20.1:1.
The improvement in our risk-to-capital ratio this quarter was primarily driven by investment gains partially offset by a small level of operating loss.
We have taken and continue to take many actions to maintain a competitive risk-to-capital position including internal and external reinsurance reductions and commutations of risk exposure and by realizing investment gains.
As a result in 2012 we do not expect to exceed the 25:1 risk-to-capital limit imposed by certain states and believe that Radian is positioned to continue writing new high-quality mortgage insurance business uninterrupted.
Now let me turn to the topics that we believe are top of mind.
First we continued to write more new high-quality mortgage insurance business that can generate strong returns.
We have successfully drawn and diversified our customer base which is evident in our new business volume.
In the third quarter we wrote $10.6 billion of new business and $25.4 billion year-to-date.
This is projected to generate $7.5 million in positive after-tax contribution over its slide for each billion dollars in NIW.
Our volume has increased substantially over the past year.
In fact we wrote more new business in the third quarter alone than we did for the entire first 9 months of 2011.
In October we received more requests for mortgage insurance than in any other month this year reaching a 5-year monthly record NIW of $4 billion.
And here I need to take a moment to thank our customers for choosing to do business with Radian.
We are attracting new customers and increasing our market penetration particularly among community banks and independent mortgage lenders and by expanding our geographical presence.
In 2012 alone more than 250 new customers chose Radian as their MI partner.
And new customers bring new volume.
20% of our NIW in 2012 came from customers new to Radian beginning in 2011.
Last quarter I mentioned our outstanding sales team as one of the drivers behind our NIW success.
This quarter let me mention another driver: our unmatched customer training capability.
Radian has trained more than 44 000 customers since 2009 with a focus on product and technical training that anticipates and addresses trends in the industry.
Our training has gained popularity over the past few years as our customers discover the value of our courses and knowledgeable training team.
In 2009 we had nearly 7 000 individuals take advantage of our training.
In 2012 so far this year we've trained more than 12 000.
Turning now to Radian's mortgage insurance book of business in Slide 19 on our webcast presentation.
It is important to note that as of the third quarter the 2009 to 2012 books grew to more than 40% of our primary risk in force and the most problematic 2006 and '07 books are now down to under 28%.
If the pace of our new business volume continues we expect that by mid-2013 our book of business written after 2008 will be larger than the book written in 2008 and prior.
In addition the success of the latest HARP program has helped to further improve the credit profile of our legacy book.
Approximately 8% of our risk in force has been improved through a HARP refinance and this combined with our newer quality book of business represents a strong portfolio that has grown to 48% of our total primary mortgage insurance risk in force.
By the end of this year this combination of HARP plus the 2009 to 2012 book will represent more than 50% of our total risk in force.
This is one of the primary drivers of our expected return to MI operating profitability in 2013.
Second we continued to focus on mitigating losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio.
There are positive trends and improving results in our legacy book as the total number of defaulted loans continues to decline as you can see on Slide 24.
The default rate on our primary book fell further in the third quarter to 12.6%.
Loss mitigation remains a top priority at Radian.
With regard to loan modifications while the reporting we receive from servicers remains limited we have seen a steady number of completed loan mods.
Although the HAMP program peaked last year many of those borrowers who did not complete HAMP instead transitioned to a private modification program and achieved success.
In fact one quarter of the completed private modifications that were reported to us began at the HAMP trial.
Our loss management team works track tirelessly to increase these numbers helping to educate and connect borrowers with servicers that can offer a loan modification or other program to increase their likelihood of home ownership success.
For example earlier this month we began operating a unique program called the Responsible Homeowner or RH Reward designed to encourage borrowers who recently modified their mortgages to remain current on the new mortgage payments.
This program is administered by Loan Value Group and pays rewards to eligible homeowners for making their mortgage payments on time.
The reward is paid in cash when the mortgage is refinanced or paid off and participation is free.
Loan Value Group has demonstrated success with this program and we are pleased to be a partner.
We remain committed to supporting efforts focused on responsible sustainable homeownership.
As we continue to work through our legacy books of business we maintained $3 billion in loss reserves representing 3x the claims we expect to pay in 2012 and our primary reserve for default increased slightly this quarter to $28 561.
You'll find the details of our rescission and denial activity on Slide 20 of our webcast presentation.
These rates remain elevated as we work through the legacy books for errors in underwriting are common.
We also continue to review each claim carefully to ensure that the servicing standards referenced in our master policy have been followed.
Where warranted we may curtail the claim payment based on servicing negligence.
What is most important to remember however is that we continue to pay appropriate claims and have paid in excess of $5 billion in -- since 2008 while enforcing our rights on poorly underwritten fraudulent or negligently serviced loans.
Third our financial guaranty business continues to serve as an important and unique source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
Our financial guaranty team in New York is solely focused on surveilling our existing exposure and pursuing opportunities for commutation and risk reduction.
Based on the tenacity and strong relationships we have successfully reduced our net par exposure from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $39 billion in the third quarter of 2012 primarily through a series of successful commutations.
This represents a reduction of our total financial guaranty risk exposure of 66% or 2/3 including many of the riskier segments of the portfolio as you can see on Slide 27.
Since 2008 Radian Asset has paid Radian Guaranty a total of $384 million in dividends and expects to pay another dividend of approximately $40 million to Radian Guaranty next year.
An additional $291 million in contingency reserves remains to support Radian Asset's existing risk.
This represents an opportunity over time to act on Radian Guaranty's statutory capital as the exposure is ultimately reduced and contingency reserves are released.
As of September 30 2012 Radian Asset maintains statutory surplus of $1.1 billion.
Fourth while the challenge and volatility of our economy and legacy portfolio clearly remains based on our performance and trends we continued to project a return to a very small level of MI operating profitability in 2013 with our updated forecast projecting close to breakeven on a consolidated basis.
Our industry continues to slowly but steadily regain share from the FHA as the FHA has increased prices and tightened guidelines to help our industry return to a more traditional and sustainable balance between government and private mortgage insurance.
On Capitol Hill we continued to hear resounding support in Congress for a larger role for private capital including private mortgage insurance.
In the future as the -- as Capitol takes on the future of housing finance.
The qualified mortgage definition outlined in Dodd-Frank is still expected to be released no later than mid-January with QRM to follow.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thanks S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the third quarter of 2012 and our capital and liquidity positions as of September 30 2012.
The MI provision for losses was down to $172 million this quarter compared to $208 million last quarter and $277 million a year ago.
The improved loss development this quarter continues to be driven by the lower level of new defaults as the credit composition of our in force book keeps improving.
The credit composition has been helped by the significant volumes of very high quality new business plus a continuation of the recent surge in HARP volume.
Primary new defaults which are the main driver for incurred losses were down by 23% for the third quarter compared to the third quarter of 2011.
In addition the impact to net incurred losses resulting from the composition changes and other items in our default inventory was minimal this quarter.
For the fourth quarter we are expecting a larger MI operating loss as the negative impact of seasonality on both new defaults and cures is expected to result in significantly higher incurred losses for the quarter.
The amount in our September 30 balance sheet representing future expected denials and rescissions is $477 million.
We account for approximately 50% of currently outstanding denials as anticipated reinstatement.
And to quantify the sensitivity to this number like we did last quarter if the reinstatement percentage unexpectedly shifted significantly to 75% the resulting addition to our total loss reserves would be about $121 million.
We have disclosed a historical reinstatement rate by denial quarter in a new webcast Slide #21.
While some quarters have been below the 50% average and some above our overall estimate is based on this actual experience which is updated quarterly.
Please note that when denials are subsequently reinstated the majority of these reinstatements take place in the first 6 months after denial.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio is estimated to be 20.1:1 with approximately $200 million of excess statutory surplus above the 25:1 risk-to-capital ratio as of September 30.
The primary driver of the improvement on our risk-to-capital ratio this quarter was the statutory investment gains we booked during the quarter partially offset by a small MI operating loss and an FG operating loss and an increase in net MI risk in force.
In the financial guaranty segment we booked a $24 million statutory loss in the quarter for the final settlement of all of our Greek exposure.
Radian Guaranty ended the quarter with $1 billion of statutory capital up 11% from last quarter.
Our current projections have Radian Guaranty remaining at a risk-to-capital ratio below 25:1 through year-end without any capital contribution.
For the fourth quarter we expect our strong new insurance volumes will continue to increase Radian Guaranty's gross risk in force with net risk in force decreasing as a result of additional internal and external reinsurance that is planned of which is still subject to regulatory approval.
Operating losses in the fourth quarter are expected to decrease our capital levels.
There are minimal remaining embedded investment gains in our current portfolio.
As always Slide 9 depicts our current balance sheet fair value position along with our expected net credit losses or recoveries on fair value exposures.
The net credit recovery again consists mainly of the amount we expect to ultimately recover with regard to the TruPS commutation.
If our projections are correct regarding the future credit loss payments and recoveries we will see an addition of approximately $245 million or $1.83 to pre-tax book value over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $187 million and adding the present value of credit loss recoveries of $58 million.
Both of these numbers are shown on Slide 9.
As of September 30 2012 the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is approximately $918 million or $6.87 per share.
We believe this amount will be realized in the future.
However the realistic timeframe when we can potentially reverse some or all of the valuation allowance is expected to be sometime in 2015.
We are projecting a very small MI operating profit in 2013 based in part on our expectation that new defaults will continue to decline significantly in 2013.
Operating expenses for the third quarter are up from last quarter primarily due to a decrease in our stock-based compensation accrual.
We have approximately $330 million currently available at the holding company and remaining -- our remaining 2013 debt outstanding of $79.4 million which is due in February.
As mentioned earlier we expect that Radian Guaranty will not breach 25:1 this year.
Nonetheless contributions from the holding company are still possible during the rest of 2012 and beyond.
The results of potential use of some holding company cash when our IRS issue is finalized which is now unlikely to occur in 2012.
And we have $250 million of debt maturing in June of 2015.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Before we turn to the operator I would like to summarize 4 important points.
First we wrote $10.6 billion in NIW in the third quarter which was more business than we wrote in the first 9 months of last year.
Our momentum continued in October as we recorded our highest month of NIW in 5 years of $4 billion.
Second since 2008 we've reduced our Radian Asset risk exposure by 66% while paying $384 million in dividends to Radian Guaranty and releasing $270 million in contingency reserves.
Our statutory surplus stands at $1.1 billion.
Third at the end of the third quarter we improved our risk-to-capital ratio to 20.1:1 and we do not expect to breach the 25:1 risk-to-capital ratio this year.
Fourth we maintained $330 million of currently available holding company liquidity after taking advantage of opportunities to continue reducing our 2013 debt which now has a remaining balance of $80 million.
And finally what excites us at Radian is that we are building towards what we expect will be a profitable future that will be fueled in part by the size and the earnings power of the profitable new MI business we are writing.
And now operator I'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So S.A.
it sounds like your NIW is growing quite fast faster than overall mortgage activity.
I guess you pointed out 20% of that is coming from new customers but it also seems like part of that's also gaining market share with existing customers.
Can you give us a little better sense of what these customers are saying to you why they're bringing you new business or why they're bringing you a larger share of their existing business? Well as you know Mark one of the factors has been that there's been a reduced number of suppliers or mortgage insurance providers in the industry in the short term.
But more importantly on a long-term basis we've been building deliberately for this sector's success by continuing to find ways in which we can improve our relationships with customers add more value and as Teresa's fond of saying positioning ourselves as a must-do business with MI player.
In addition to that as I mentioned and we are just getting -- moving on it in a bigger way we're expanding into geographies that hitherto were geographies that we're very strongly dominated by Old Republic and some of the other players such as Texas and Oklahoma and so on.
And we continue to hire more mortgage insurance salespeople.
In fact even as we speak we're looking for strong people to hire.
So this is part of a sustained momentum and strategy with a training program with our investment in the operational side with the 2 principles that we have which is we will not compromise credit quality and we expect to get an acceptable and attractive return.
I don't know if Teresa you'd like that to add more to that? I think that says it very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Another question Bob what -- do you know what the remaining unrealized gain position in your securities portfolio right now? Yes.
I said it was minimal.
Research Division</strong> Minimal? What caused the rescissions to increase in the third quarter? It kind of upped a decent amount mortgage in the prior 3 quarters.
Scott? Hi Mark.
It's Scott Theobald.
The majority of the claims we resolve continue to come from the problematic 2006 and 2007 vintages.
As such we continue to ask originations and servicing docs and that's to support our investigation process.
IF service is unable to provide the documentation a denial results.
If we receive the docs we investigate and pay all appropriate claims.
We rescind when we have corroborated evidence of underwriting negligence or misrepresentation.
Having said that we do expect rescissions and denials to recede over time as the problematic vintages age and run off.
And Mark remember because of the process-intensive nature of rescissions it inherently is a lumpy process.
So you'll see months where that number goes up and months that -- where that number goes down.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just one last thing.
I mean you guys indicated you expect to -- you do not expect to exceed 25:1 on risk/capital in 2012 and also are looking for an operating profit in 2013.
What's to stop you from extending that and saying we realistically just don't expect to exceed 25:1? Well that's only part of the equation Mark.
You also have to look at the risk in force and thankful for us we're lighting -- writing a lot and creating new business.
That's increasing our risk in force so that's going to be part of the equation in capital and the risk-to-capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you Bob talk about how the -- your new reinsurance agreement is impacting the growth in risk in force relative to growth in insurance in force? Well it's going to be the 20% quarter share.
So the net risk in force is going to be 80% essentially and that's the way it works so -- which I think is a fairly easy calculation.
This is something that we use to manage the liquid capital which is very important to our success in writing it.
And Mark as we look at ways in which we continue to manage our risk-to-capital ratio we are very focused on not stopping the momentum we have in writing new business because we believe that eventually when the legacy wears off our company's valuation will be based on its franchise valuation.
So it is very important to -- for us while we are dealing -- still dealing with the legacy issues to continue to deal with and focus on building as strong a franchise as possible because that's what's going to fuel our future success in valuation.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just finally is that netting impact of the reinsurance reflected in the risk in force numbers reported in the earnings release? Not the -- there's a gross risk in force that -- the primary risk in force data.
That's going to be the gross.
And then the net risk in force would be the risk in force that we calculate versus the capital baseline.
Our next question is from Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> S.A.
you -- in your prepared remarks you talked a little bit about the FHA.
And I was wondering if you could expand on your comments and talk maybe more specifically about what the impact to private mortgage insurance would be if the FHA was required to draw more capital? Okay Teresa is in the best position to answer that.
Yes I mean I think that as we look at that issue I -- there has been clearly a focus on trying to move more business to the private sector in particular private mortgage insurance versus FHA.
And you've seen that during number of moves that the FHA has made over the last couple of years in terms of increasing their price.
We do think that if the FHA has issues in terms of not only having kind of not reach their cushion requirement but being under the -- having a negative in their insurance fund that should benefit us in terms of seeing more business come our way and also even bolster the view that private capital to mortgage insurance is a better solution going forward for low down payment loans.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the previous question about net risk in force.
Is that -- just to clarify does that include the existing reinsurance contract or the new one that is still subject to approval? No it wouldn't be netted until the business is written and ceded.
And next we'll go to Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could talk a little bit about the transition or the mix shift from single pay to monthly over the last year or so in the midst of some of the market share take you've been seeing? Sure.
So we've been very focused as you know on increasing the amount of monthly pay that we receive.
And one of the things we did was we improved our pricing on the monthlies in the summer of 2011 increased some of our singles pricing after that.
We've also changed our incentive plan so that our sales folks are incented to bring in monthlies.
And so I think you'd see that shift based on all the actions that we took to bring that share down.
However our position remains that the best strategies is to have a piece of both.
It's just that with the view that interest rates may finally be going up we are positioning ourselves to do on the margins few less singles and few more monthlies.
And we have gotten to our strategy to a point where there's a number of levers we can push including the new lever we have which is changing sales commissions to incent products that we believe are attractive to us from time to time.
I would just say one other thing which is that we do believe that the return on that business the singles business is an appropriate return.
And I think that's an important point as well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on past calls we've talked about cure assumptions on that late-stage bucket and I think there were some slides.
Historically I mean I've overlooked and I don't know if some of those were included.
Just kind of update your thoughts for us on what your assumptions on the curers for that late-stage default bucket would be? Yes I mean I think the ultimate cure rate on the -- with the nonpayment of claims on a late stage has not changed.
We've been consistent.
You can see on the 12 payments or more where we're expecting a 57% gross roll rate which means that 43% will not be submitted claims for a variety of reasons.
We did see a tick-up in the cure percentage coming from the 12 payments or more this quarter.
But ultimately we expect a lot of those not to be paid claims for a variety of reasons that we've detailed in the past.
Our next question is from Ian Glastein with Monarch.
S.A.
just a question to follow up on Mark's question about gross versus net risk in force.
It looks like the gross total risk in force is around $35 billion and the net risk in force this quarter is around $20 billion.
So it seems it's around a $15 billion difference between gross and net.
I understand that $1.4 billion of that is the quarter share and around $4.4 billion of that is the delinquent risk in force.
But can you tell me where the other $9 billion is hiding? Yes.
Bob? Yes the -- I mean it's going to be -- the growth in that is going to be the external reinsurance which is not limited to the quarter share because we have capped every insurance and we have Smart Home Reinsurance still outstanding.
We also have the delinquent risk in force as you pointed out.
And then the third component would be internal reinsurance where we routinely reinsure a business that we write in Radian Guaranty with other internal MI subsidiaries.
So does that mean $9 billion of internally reinsured as well? It doesn't because your $1.4 billion on external reinsurance was only the quota-share treaty and doesn't include some of the other stuff.
So it's approaching that but it's closer to $8 billion.
So $8 billion is internally reinsured? A little less yes.
And can you talk a little bit about where the risk-to-capital is on the internal cap is? So your internal reinsurance obviously has special rate guidelines as well and risk limits.
Can you talk about where the [indiscernible]? Well all of the subsidiaries to which we reinsure internally meet the necessary surplus requirements in the state fair domicile.
Obviously that's something that we pay very careful attention to.
We also work with Pennsylvania or domicile state where most our subsidiaries are domiciled to make sure that those subs also have appropriate risk-to-capital ratios that are not within the Pennsylvania law but something that we arrange with them to keep the risk-to-capitals at an appropriate level.
Okay great.
And then just a question on the projected default to claim rate just a follow-up.
It looks like the net rate for your 12 payments and more is 47% and for pending claim is 86%.
Can you help us reconcile that with the 3.9% cure during the quarter? Is it just going to take years for the 53% to cure? Or how do you see that playing out? Part of it is -- and we've gone through this in the past part of it is going to be the cures which are going to take a long time obviously.
We've talked about modification programs and situations where the borrowers will ultimately not be in a situation where there'll be a foreclosure on the claim.
There are also situations where there are foreclosure that are not submitted to us as claims.
There are also the documentation issues and the servicing issues that are very well-publicized that we believe will result in some of these claims not being claimed.
So we do have some slides that we've begun to show you that depict the number of delinquent loans for which borrowers made payments but remain delinquent that's a fairly significant level the aging of the delinquent loans there's a lot of evidence that leads us to conclude that many of these won't become claimed.
Okay.
And then just a final question.
Do you expect RMAI to receive approval from Freddie Mac to continue -- to be able to write insurance before December 2012? It seems like they're sort of leaving you to the last minute here.
Do you expect anything to happen like what happened with MGIC where they sort of forced more money from the holdco to the guaranty business? This is Teresa.
We've started engaging in conversations with Freddie to extend the approvals for RMAI.
And at this point we don't see any reason why we wouldn't get those approvals.
And I can't address the issue around whether or not there would be any additional requirements.
Keep in mind that we've shared with you our risk-to-capital projections for the year.
So we don't anticipate the crossing the 25:1 risk-to-capital limit.
And the fact that we believe we continue to have very strong relationships with the GSCs as well as our regulators which have been very helpful and instrumental in having us continue growing our business and continue to serve the housing market.
And next we'll go to the line of Howard Amster with Ramat Securities.
I was wondering do you have ability to recapture some of this reinsurance business? I remember reading that.
Could you maybe elaborate? We do Howard.
The existing transaction the first transaction we have the ability to recapture 2/3 of the business within -- after 3 years.
The new agreement of which we've just agreed to terms and is subject to Freddie Mac approval we'll disclose the terms of that when the deal is finalized.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll next go to Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Ryan O'Steen on for Bose.
Just one quick question on denials.
For the servicer that accounts for the bulk of your denials do you use the same 50% expectation of reinstatements for that servicer? And also how have actual reinstatements for that 1 servicer trended versus your expectations? The reinstatements for that servicer are within the history that we need to calculate the numbers.
So yes.
And to the presenters we have no additional questions in queue.
Okay.
Well in that case operator I'd like to thank everybody for participating on this call and look forward to seeing you all for our next quarter and full-year earnings call.
Thanks.
And again ladies and gentlemen we do appreciate your participation on the call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for standing by.
Welcome to today's Radian Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded and I would now like to turn the conference over to our host today Emily Riley Vice President of Financial Communications.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty; and Derek Brummer Chief Risk Officer and General Counsel of Radian Asset.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2011 Form 10-K as well as subsequent quarterly and other reports and registration statements filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thanks to all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
Today I will first provide a few highlights from our fourth quarter and full-year 2012 results then I will focus my comments on the priorities we set for 2012.
First how we at Radian continue to grow our mortgage insurance franchise and capture a larger amount of new high-quality business.
Second what we're doing to mitigate our mortgage insurance legacy losses.
Third how we are reducing our risk exposure in financial guaranty to provide an important capital support to the mortgage insurance business.
And fourth how we are positioning Radian for success as the housing market recovers and for a return to MI operating profitability this year.
Bob will then cover the details of our financial position and I will provide a few closing comments before we open the call to your questions.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the fourth quarter 2012 of $177 million or $1.34 per diluted share.
For the full-year the net loss was $452 million or $3.41 per diluted share.
At December 31 2012 our book value per share was $5.51.
The fourth quarter net loss was driven in part by an increase to our IBNR a component of our large reserve that consists primarily of estimated denial reinstatements.
Bob will discuss this impact to our incurred losses in more detail.
It is also important to note that the typical seasonal default and cure patterns that we mentioned in our third quarter call as an expectation for the fourth quarter did not materialize which is a positive indicator of our improving portfolio.
Additionally in January new defaults were down 28% from January 2012; and cures were 109% of our new defaults.
The January 2013 new default rate was the lowest monthly rate we have seen since December 2005.
Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio was 20.8:1 at year-end 2012 reflecting an improvement from 21.5:1 at year-end 2011.
And importantly we now expect Radian Guaranty to remain below 25:1 throughout 2013.
This will include if necessary contributions from currently available Holding Company funds.
Now let me turn to the topics that we believe are top of mind.
First we continue to write more new high-quality mortgage insurance business that can generate strong returns.
We wrote $11.7 billion in new business for the fourth quarter and $37.1 billion for 2012.
We wrote an increasing volume of new MI business each consecutive quarter in 2012 and ended the year with more than double the amount of new business than 2011.
And we continued our momentum in January with our second largest NIW month in the past 5 years of $4 billion which compares to only $2 billion written in January 2011.
We look forward to continued strong volume this year and we expect our total NIW in 2013 to surpass our 2012 volume.
From 2009 to the end of this January we wrote a total of $85 billion of new business creating an impressive earnings ramp that we expect will lead us towards future profitability.
Our sales strategy for bringing in business both from existing and new customers continues to be successful.
In 2012 more than 325 new customers chose Radian as their MI partner and those relationships mean new opportunity as 21% of our mortgage insurance business in 2012 and 25% in January came from customers new to Radian within the last 2 years with our pipeline of prospective new customers remaining very strong.
In the last 2 years mortgage originations have been driven by high volumes of refinanced activity and at some point in the near future the market is expected to transition from refi to purchase.
It is important to note that the MI penetration for purchased loans is significantly higher than it is for refi loans and that purchases tend to be more skewed towards monthly versus single premium MI.
For the past 2 quarters I have mentioned the outstanding teams at Radian that helped to drive our NIW success which include sales and training.
Today I would like to mention a group that is working incredibly hard behind the scenes: our underwriters operations and customer service teams that supported our outstanding quarter-by-quarter NIW growth in 2012.
They help make it even easier to do business with Radian which is key to our success.
In 2012 our customer care team fielded 50% more calls than they did in 2011.
Our service center underwriters were busy processing 125% more applications in 2012 than in 2011 and our customers were able to quickly and easily access Radian's rates using their Android iPhone or iPad.
The 3 new members of our sales team announced last week is another example of our continued confidence and commitment to an ongoing investment in our franchise which will continue in 2013.
Now turning back to our mortgage insurance book of business in Slide 19 on our webcast presentation it is important to note that as of the fourth quarter the 2009 to 2012 books grew to nearly 45% of our primary risk in force and the most problematic 2006 and 2007 books are now down to under 26%.
We continue to expect that given the volume of new business we write each quarter by the second quarter of this year our book of business written after 2008 will be larger than the book written in 2008 and prior.
And the latest HARP program continues to improve the credit profile of our legacy book.
More than 9% of our risk in force has completed the HARP refinance and this combined with our newer quality book of business represents a strong portfolio that is now larger than our legacy book representing 54% of our total primary mortgage insurance risk in force.
This improved composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio is one of the primary drivers of our expected return to MI operating profitability this year.
You can already see the increasing impact of this new business on Slide 18 on our webcast presentation where the 2009 and subsequent vintages are clearly providing a larger positive contribution to the overall book.
Additionally our gross total primary insurance in force is now growing again and increased from $126.2 billion at year-end 2011 to $140.4 billion at year-end 2012 resulting in our MI premiums earned net of ceded reinsurance premiums increasing from $681 million in 2011 to $702 million in 2012.
Second we continue to focus on mitigating losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio.
The improvement in our portfolio of defaulted loans continues with a steady decline of 2% from the third quarter and 16% year-over-year as you can see on Slide 22.
And the default rate on our primary book fell further in the fourth quarter to 12.1%.
As we work through our legacy book of business we maintained $3.1 billion in loss reserves which represents more than 3x the claims we expect to pay this year.
And our primary reserve for default increased in the fourth quarter to $29 510 our highest level ever up from $26 007 at the end of 2011; and $23 374 at the end of 2010.
You will find the details of our rescission and denial activity on Slide 20 of our webcast presentation.
These rates continue to remain elevated as we review claims where errors in underwriting are common.
We also continue to review each claim carefully to ensure that the servicing standards referenced in our master policy have been followed.
Our average total claims paid in 2012 was $48 700 down from $51 900 in 2011 in part due to our ongoing effort to curtail claim payments based on servicing negligence.
What is most important to remember is that we continue to pay appropriate claims while enforcing our rights on poorly underwritten fraudulent or negligently-serviced loans.
Third our Financial Guaranty business continues to serve as an important and unique source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
Our Financial Guaranty team in New York remains focused on surveilling our existing exposure and pursuing opportunities for commutations and risk reductions.
We successfully reduced our net par exposure from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $34 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This represents a decline of our total Financial Guaranty risk exposure of 71% which includes several successes in 2012.
In January we announced a transaction with Assured Guaranty that commuted a $13.8 billion reinsurance portfolio and ceded an additional $1.8 billion of public finance business.
This added $100 million to Radian Guaranty's statutory capital in 2012.
In April we significantly improved the credit profile of our Financial Guaranty book by commuting our entire CDO of ABS exposure and a significant portion of our riskiest trust exposure.
In May Radian Asset released $55 million of contingency reserves with the approval of the New York Department of Financial Services.
In November we agreed to the commutation of our remaining reinsurance risk from FGIC.
This commutation was completed in January and consisted of an $822 million reinsurance portfolio.
Through actions taken in 2012 we successfully reduced our public finance exposure by 56% including nearly 90% of our exposure to Jefferson County Alabama.
Similarly our structured finance exposure was reduced by 50% including nearly half of our CDO book.
As you can see on Slide 30 our remaining $13.8 billion corporate CDO exposure matures over the next 4 years with 35% maturing by the end of 2013.
Finally last week Radian Asset received regulatory approval to release another $61 million of contingency reverses which will benefit Radian Guaranty's statutory capital position.
While we had anticipated the reserve release and included it in our risk-to-capital projections for 2013 the amount released was slightly higher than we had projected.
Today the total cumulative release of contingency reserves related to the direct book since 2008 now stands at $425 million.
Also since 2008 Radian Asset has paid Radian Guaranty a total of $384 million in dividends and expects to pay another dividend of approximately $35 million to Radian Guaranty this year.
As of February approximately $230 million in contingency reserves remains to support Radian Asset's existing risks.
This represents an opportunity over time to add to Radian Guaranty's statutory capital as the exposure is ultimately reduced and contingency reserves are released.
As of December 31 2012 Radian Asset maintains statutory surplus of $1.1 billion.
Fourth while some challenges and volatility still remain in the economy and in our legacy portfolio there is now broad data from multiple sources indicating a solid recovery in the housing market after many years of declines.
Based on our performance and trends we continue to project a return to marginal level of MI operating profitability in 2013 and look forward to a return to more normalized profitability over the next couple of years.
Our industry continues to slowly but steadily rake in share from the FHA which presents another opportunity to increase our new business volume.
Penetration for our industry has doubled over the past 2 years and increased nearly 2.5 points in 2012 alone.
Additionally acting FHA Commissioner Carol Galante announced another price increase for the FHA effective April 1 stating that the decision was designed in part to "continue encouraging the return of private capital to the housing market." The FHA also decided to remove the benefit of cancellation from its coverage which we feel is another competitive advantage for private mortgage insurance.
Meantime on Capitol Hill we continue to hear resounding support in Congress for a larger role for private capital including private mortgage insurance in the future of housing finance.
This theme echoed throughout the financial services committee hearings last week where the role of FHA was questioned and its financial condition challenged.
This sentiment along with the FHA's recent actions should help our industry continue to return to a more traditional and sustainable balance between government and private mortgage insurance.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thanks S.A.
I'll be updating you on the P&amp;L activity and trends for the fourth quarter of 2012 our capital and liquidity positions as of year-end 2012 and some expectations regarding 2013.
The MI provision for losses was $307 million this quarter compared to $172 million last quarter and $333 million a year ago.
The increase in incurred losses compared to the third quarter is due primarily to the increased trend of denial reinstatements that occurred this quarter.
Based on this experience in the fourth quarter we increased our IBNR reserve for future reinstatements.
While the historical reinstatement rate for denials is clearly in the 50% range as depicted on Slide 21 in the webcast slides we have taken into account a very recent reinstatement activity and prudently increased the initial estimated denial reinstatement rate to approximately 60%.
That initial 60% rate declined over a 12-month period as the outstanding denials age and actual reinstatements occur.
We will continue to monitor this rate closely in 2013.
The reinstatement rate remains at 60%.
No further net adjustments to reserves would be necessary over time.
If the rate were to rise unexpectedly to 75% the impact to total loss reserve as of 12/31 would have been approximately $100 million.
The net increase for the total IBNR this quarter was $61 million resulting in year-end figure of $323 million.
You will see on Slide 11 that a large component of incurred losses this quarter were from the existing default line which reflect the impact from both actual reinstatements as well as the IBNR increases during the quarter and the normal aging of delinquent loans.
The amount in our year-end balance sheet representing future denials and rescissions was $455 million.
The composition of the new default line continues to be at least 75% repeat default which we consider positive.
And historically repeat defaults have had a much lower claim incident than first time default.
In addition defaulted loans moved to foreclosure at a stable rate throughout 2012 and loans submitted as claims were relatively low in the fourth quarter.
Both of these items are critical to determining future paid losses.
For 2013 we continue to expect a much smaller incurred loss line driven by an estimated decline in new defaults of approximately 24% with no material expected changes to default composition or net roll rate expectation.
Paid claims in 2013 are estimated to be between $900 million and $1 billion.
The 2009 and subsequent vintages continued to be profitable and are growing as a proportion of our total business as depicted on Slide 18.
Radian has written a meaningful volume of single premium business over the past few years as we have successfully marketed the product as a competitive product to FHA.
While discounted such single premium business appears to be very profitable with loss ratios in 2012 that are similar to those from monthly premium and other business written during the same time period.
Radian Guaranty's year-end risk-to-capital ratio is estimated to be 20.8:1 with $157 million of excess statutory surplus above our 25:1 risk-to-capital ratio.
The primary drivers of the changes in our risk-to-capital this quarter were the operating losses which reduced capital and the strong new insurance written which increased growth risk in force offset by our external and intercompany reinsurance both of which reduced net risk in force; and from additional statutory capital benefits relating to unearned premiums and deferred taxes.
Radian Guaranty ended the year with $926 million of statutory capital compared to $843 million a year ago.
For 2013 we expect our strong new insurance volumes will continue to increase Radian's growth and net risk in force.
Statutory capital levels are expected to remain near current levels throughout 2013.
Fair value gains and losses were minimal this quarter as collateral spread tightening was offset by the tightening of Radian's credit spread.
Slide 9 depicts our current balance sheet fair value position along with the expected net credit losses and recoveries of fair value to exposure.
Based on our projections regarding future credit loss payments and recoveries we expect to add approximately $244 million or $1.82 to pretax book value over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $185 million and adding the present value of credit loss recoveries of $59 million.
Both of these numbers are shown on Slide 9.
Operating expenses this quarter were impacted by increases in our stock-based compensation expenses which were $13.5 million for the quarter compared to $1.3 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
As of December 31 2012 the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is approximately $990 million or $7.41 per share.
We have 0 remaining admitted DTA for GAAP purposes as the majority of our $20 million fourth quarter tax provision represented the write-off of our remaining asset due to our determination in the fourth quarter that there's an extremely low likelihood of a near-term IRS settlement.
The most likely next step is tax litigation which would likely take several years for final resolution.
We continue to believe that our full DTA will be realized in the future and a realistic timeframe when we can potentially reverse some or all of valuation allowance is still expected to be sometime in 2015.
We will have approximately $257 million available at the Holding Company after the upcoming full repayment of our 2013 debt.
After completion of the exchange and extension of most of our 2015 debt we have $55 million remaining par maturing in June 2015 and $195 million of par maturing in 2017.
In addition to the $450 million convertible debt which matures in November 2017.
We anticipate using current Holding Company funds primarily to support the operating company and we'll make contributions if necessary to help ensure Radian's strong new business volume and market position which is the key to Radian's return to profitability.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Before we turn to the operator I would like to summarize 4 important points.
First we wrote more new MI business each consecutive quarter in 2012 and ended the year with $37.1 billion in NIW a number we expect to surpass in 2013.
Second since 2008 we reduced our Radian Asset risk exposure by 71% while paying $384 million in dividends to Radian Guaranty and releasing $425 million in contingency reserves.
Our statutory surplus stands at $1.1 billion.
Third at the end of fourth quarter our risk-to-capital ratio was 20.8:1 and we do not expect to breach 25:1 in 2013.
Fourth we successfully extended nearly 80% of our 2015 debt obligation to 2017 leaving a total of $55 million due in June 2015.
What continues to excite us at Radian is moving closer to realizing the promise of a profitable future that will be driven in part by the size and earnings power of the high-quality new MI business we have written since 2008.
Our success in writing new business continues driven by our strong customer relationships our highly skilled and dedicated Radian team and our competitive risk-to-capital ratio as well as the support of our stakeholders.
Now operator I would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Douglas Harter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You guys disclosed the combined insurance ratio that being -- risk-to-capital ratio sorry of being close to 30x.
Can you just tell us what type of impact that has versus the 25:1 that you're referencing that you'll expect to stay under on the main insurance subsidiary? Doug this is Bob.
The only risk-to-capital ratio that matters for writing new business is Radian Guaranty's which is 20.8:1 and that's the one we said would remain below 25:1 for 2013.
The other MI insurance subsidiaries combined risk-to-capital is that other number.
And we wanted to disclose it to show it but it really doesn't matter whatsoever for writing new business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if you guys could talk about from a competitive standpoint saw Arch Capital buying the PMI platform and NMI getting approval to write new business.
So I guess how are you guys viewing the competitive landscape with those potential new entrants? Doug let me answer that.
First we believe that the entry of such large amounts of new capital shows that a lot of people believe that the Mortgage Insurance business is going to be attractive and profitable going forward which for us already in the business is good.
Second we believe that new capital coming in and the strengthening of the mortgage insurance industry will play well with Capitol Hill because it validates the mortgage insurance business model with policy makers who are starting to deliberate the future of the housing finance industry.
Third the new entrants announced bring the number of participants in the mortgage insurance industry to the same number that existed prior to the downturn and we have competed with that number in the past the major difference being we now will be competing with the same number of players from a stronger position in the market particularly given the number of new customers that we have added in -- added to Radian and are continuing to bring into Radian.
And finally the mortgage insurance market could increase in the future as the FHA pulls back and as the housing market returns to more normal level driven by more purchase than refi.
So that is a comprehensive view of the new competition and the competitive environment.
Next we will hear from the line of Craig Perry with Panning Capital.
I just had a couple of quick questions.
The first is just in relation to your commentary about making operating profitability this year.
Is there any way you could help us understand kind of seasonally when you would expect that profit to occur? Based on my numbers and based on kind of the January number it appear that Q1 would be a profitable quarter.
The second question somewhat related is any update that you care to provide to the market about the actual profitability of the new business you've written? I'm looking at Slide 18 and I think in the past it's sort of 15% ROEs that seems extremely conservative relative to the performance of the portfolio you've written 2009 onward.
I know your competitors Genworth kind of have used sort of a 20% plus figure.
Maybe you could just provide some commentary there? And then third and lastly Bob could you just help us understand the deferred tax asset of almost $1 billion? Why is it that if you achieve operating profitability this year you wouldn't be in a position to write that backup sooner.
I just know from my experience with some of the regional banks that I think it's sort of 3 or 4 consecutive quarters of profitability are enough or sufficient to cause a write back of that asset.
Could you just walk us through kind of what conditions have to be met to write that asset up? Okay I'm glad you didn't have a fourth one.
The -- okay so as far as the first question we've talked about the whole year achieving this marginal MI operating profitability.
Certainly the first quarter from a seasonal standpoint is typically our best quarter.
We've gotten off to a very good start as you can see from our January results.
So we're on our way for the first quarter.
But we're really talking throughout the whole year.
And as we saw the fourth quarter which is typically from a seasonal standpoint the worst from a new default and cure standpoint really wasn't that way.
So that's a reflection of our changing composition and our better book of business.
Your second question regarding the vintages the 15% ROE which is really a modeled ROE that we use over a cycle clearly it appears that the 2009 and subsequent vintages from what we can see so far will be better than that perhaps significantly better than that.
It does look like 2010 is better than 2009 and 2011 is better than that.
So these books can very conceivably end up being north of 20% perhaps significantly.
The 15% that we use is really over time over a cycle.
And the third question regarding the DTA that's still -- the 2015 is still our expectation.
There are a variety of tests that you need to go through.
There are cumulative income or cumulative loss tests that need to be observed as well as a return to profitability.
So there's no hard fast exact rule.
But based on what we can see just a return to profitability in 2013 or even 2014 won't necessarily get to the point where we can book reversal to the valuation allowance.
We'll keep updating this but at this point some or all of the reversal in 2015 appears the most realistic.
Got it okay.
But it is conceivable that it could happen sooner as well depending on how things develop? It's conceivable but we would not expect it at this point.
Next we will hear from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Research Division</strong> S.A you noted that in 2012 the book has finally started to grow again.
Yet premium revenues were down in '12.
When can we start to expect to see Premium revenue on an annual basis start to grow similarly as the book is? You mean proportional to the book growth? Research Division</strong> Yes or just growth at all.
I mean I know there may be some sort of a lagging component also the single premium component was a higher percentage overall mix historically than it's likely to be going forward to the purchase commentary you gave.
But should we start to see total premiums begin to grow year-over-year at this point? Yes yes.
You should expect to see that.
Obviously you also need to factor in the numbers that we showed and I referenced the impact of reinsurance.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just sort of dovetailing into that you mentioned staying below 25:1 risk-to-cap in '13.
Presumably the world is a better place in '14 and '15 why can't we expect to sort of stay below 25:1 for the foreseeable future at this point? Yes I think what we're looking at is for the next year we expect to stay below.
We're writing significant volumes and we think over time the mortgage origination market is going to come back strong the purchase market is going to come back.
So it could be that the volumes of new insurance written drive the risk in force significantly higher.
So that's why we're really not commenting on beyond 2013 but it's important to know that for 2013 we expect to stay below and that will allow us to keep writing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly on Page 18 is that call it $256 million roughly of sort of 2009 and more recent premiums earned.
What percentage of that was single premiums? And what's more of the monthlies with annuity type aspect? I don't have the exact numbers.
Most of it was monthlies.
So for the past couple of years we've written -- this year we wrote about 1/3 in singles.
Now that's going to be more in the premiums written as a component than it is beyond.
So it's still mostly monthlies that make up the premiums earned.
We'll go next to the line of Jasper Burch with Macquarie.
I guess starting off with on the 2013 profitability guidance could you give us a little bit more color in terms of what you're sort of the base case assuming for the change in NODs and for NIW? Yes Jasper it's Bob.
We -- I said that we expect a 24% decline in new defaults year-over-year.
Now January was 28% just as a initial comparison.
But that's a number we expect and that's a number we expect to drive the incurred losses as well as no material changes in the net roll rate assumptions.
Okay that's helpful.
And that factors in changes to HARP and sort of burn off on that? It factors in.
Certainly we expect HARP will continue this year but there's not a material component of the expectation regarding HARP.
But it does -- that does help the composition of the portfolio for sure.
Okay.
And then you guys spent a little bit of time talking about the competitive landscape and sort of -- to a lot of people it looks a lot like a homogenous product -- sorry.
And so how do you sort of compete other than on pricing to really gain market share or continue to grow relative to your competitors? This is Teresa and we've been very focused on working with our customers to help them grow their business and for us to grow with them.
We've been very sort of customer-focused.
We've also helped with training feedback on how the -- their portfolios are performing from a risk analytics point of view.
And we believe all of that has sort of enhanced the relationship.
S.A.'s talked in the past about our training.
We believe that that's another thing that adds value in terms of the customer as well as improving the portfolio of business that we're seeing from them.
So we believe that that along with the increase in the number of customers that we're working with positions us well going forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly S.A.
you mentioned the transition from really a refi-driven market to more purchase volumes at least relative in terms of issuance.
I was wondering is there a real difference in terms of the profitability of writing either refi versus purchase volume in terms of either the premiums or I guess the persistency on the book or just the returns you would expect? On the surface the profitability per product is very similar but when you take into consideration that the purchase business typically has a larger component of monthlies versus single the composition should yield higher profitability.
Next we'll hear from Jordon Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
LLC</strong> Two quick things because most of them have been answered.
First of all you talked a 15% return on equity.
If we're sitting here 2 years from now and you get the DTA back you have equity only about $14 and then you'd be making about a $2 number on that.
Is that mathematically correct not predicting you're going to make that or not but is that the way to think about it? You can certainly arrive at those numbers based on the trajectory of earned premiums and then down to a normalized loss level.
So you can get there but certainly we're not providing those projections.
We'll hear next from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> First question just technical.
For your consolidated risk-to-capital does that include CMAC or just the Radian Guaranty umbrella? All of the MI companies so yes.
LLC</strong> And then Bob can you help us think about your paid claim guidance.
Basically it's another year of kind of flat outgoing cash flow.
Can you add some color to that with respect to Freddie's directive to clean out your pending claim inventory? And in a multi-year scenario are we basically looking at several years of billion dollar kind of claim payments to clean out the inventory and really no acceleration at this point? Yes I mean I think certainly the component of the Freddie agreement is taken into account in our projections.
And I would say claims paid will be elevated for the next several years.
We do expect them to come down a little bit next year and probably thereafter but still remain elevated because of the prolonged timeframe everything that we know about.
LLC</strong> So you're looking at more "we've already reached peak on outgoing claim payments" versus down the road a pick up or sustaining these levels? Yes.
We think 2011 was the peak and we think they're going to remain elevated.
So they may not come down very quickly but we don't think they're going to go up.
We'll hear next from the line of Jack Micenko I believe with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk first about the mix of single and monthly.
I think you're down about 65-35.
Where could that mix ratio go to in a more robust purchase market with the FHA increases continuing? Where was that back in sort of prior points in the cycle where you sort of switched over to purchase? And then how do we think about the ROE differential between single versus monthly pay? So with an increase in the purchase market certainly the single percentage can come down perhaps to the 20s which is in our minds that's an ideal mix.
The modeled ROE for monthlies is in the mid-to higher teens.
The modeled ROE for singles is in the area of low double digits.
But remember that's based on assumptions and based on a duration assumption that if its longer it's going to be better for the monthlies and not as good for the singles.
If it's shorter it's going to get better for the singles and vice versa.
But we look at the mix combined and we say that if it's a little bit longer than our expectations overall the book is going to be better because we're still writing more monthlies.
So we'll -- we like the mix.
We'd like it to be a little bit lower than the current mix of singles and we expect that that will happen as the purchase market picks up.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the denial reinstatements I mean can you show us what's potentially happening there? Is there something on the servicing side that's more sort of industry-wide? Is it a single servicer anywhere tied to some of the recent settlement completion of the foreclosure of yours? This is Scott.
It's probably not related to anything like that but we have been working with our servicers to identify efficiencies and processing reinstatement requests.
The goal is to either -- quickly it's either finalizing denial or reinstating the claim.
So it's more about getting things done sooner.
Next we'll hear from the line of Matthew Dodson with JWest.
You guys have done a great job with your risk-to-capital ratio and you've also done a great job with the capital.
Can you talk a little bit about if you take out the 13 that you have due and then the 55 that you have left you have about 200 at the holding company.
And I mean that looks like you guys have made it to the other side so how do you think about potentially raising capital again at the holding company? And how should we think about that? Clearly we believe that capital liquidity have been a critical factor for us and we also believe that financial strength will continue to be an important differentiator going forward.
Therefore we've been and we'll continue to evaluate opportunities for improving our capital and liquidity positions on terms that are favorable and acceptable to us.
Next we'll hear from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually first a political question.
It looks like the GSE first loss resharing product is probably going to happen fairly soon.
I was just curious if that's a market that you guys could potentially participate in.
This is Teresa.
There continues to be a lot of discussion around that as well as kind of whether there would be more movement on sort of the FHFA talking about deeper MI coverage.
But right now that seems to not be moving forward at the moment.
So we don't really know what the timing is going to be in that regard.
We continue to have discussions about how we can participate in the strategic plan that the FHFA has.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just next question you'd noted earlier that you expect 2013 NIW to be higher than 2012.
Do you have an expectation for growth in insurance in force by either yourself or the industry? I think at this point we don't have an estimate that we could share with you.
But I think we do expect a couple of things.
One is we expect the penetration for the MI product to be up because particularly the growth in purchase transactions that we're expecting as well as the FHA announcements.
They have a price increase coming in April.
And they're also planning in June to eliminate their cancellation of MI premium going forward.
And we think those things will both help the MI private MI industry write more business.
So we think at the end of the day that will help with kind of the growth of NIW in 2013.
And we feel good about sort of where January ended in that regard.
And we will hear next from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up I think it's probably for Teresa.
HUD put up their disparate impact language I think on Friday.
One are you guys subject to disparate impact? And two if not and disparate impact sort of complicates lenders' abilities for the risk-based price does that create an opportunity for mortgage insurance? Steve we're sort of just looking at that just in the way that you are.
We are certainly subject to HUD's views on disparate impact.
So I don't know whether I can comment at this point about whether that creates any opportunity for us.
But we certainly will be looking closely at that.
Research Division</strong> It's certainly not a negative but neutral to maybe possibly positive.
Is that the right characterization you would sort of give to that? I don't think I can characterize it any way at this point.
But I would say that we've always been subject to the fair lending guidance of HUD and so it's something that we always had an eye to.
So if anything we'll be looking to see if that -- this changes anything going forward or gives us any opportunity going forward.
But I can't say that we know that at this point.
And our final question today will come from the line of Jordon Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
LLC</strong> Sorry one more follow up question please.
The AGO ruling last week against Flagstar I know that was nonagency primarily but it is also a precedent setting I'm just wondering if that is reaffirmed on appeal do judgments like that -- are they factored into your rescission guidance at this point? We have always said in the past with similar kinds of actions taken by financial guarantors that really it's apples and oranges when you compare their remedies and their contracts versus our remedies and our contracts.
Our process is looking at loan by loan getting a claim determining whether it was underwritten properly or fraudulently or serviced properly and doing what we have been doing.
LLC</strong> I understand but they also endure statistical sampling in his ruling.
So that's a little bit different.
But you still have a little bit of nonagency if I'm correct.
But independent of that wouldn't it make it easier if there's an increasing move towards accepting denials and rescissions? Wouldn't that even give you more impetus to look or there's more of a process going forward to make these guys re-look at look at some of the things that have been sent to you over time? All I can say is we look at all of those decisions and evaluate them against our -- what we are doing.
But we also understand that our business and our relationship with our servicers and lenders is on a different contractual basis.
And I'd like to turn the conference over -- back over to S.A.
Ibrahim.
Go ahead please.
Well I'd like to thank everybody for participating in our call and for the robust questions.
And with that I'd like to conclude the call for this quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
And as you heard ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference today.
We appreciate your participation and your using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
And you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Radian's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Ms.
Emily Riley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's first quarter 2013 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; Scott Theobald Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Guaranty; and Derek Brummer Chief Risk Officer and General Counsel of Radian Asset.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the Risk Factors included in our 2012 Form 10-K.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
It is a pleasure to share with you today the details of our strong capital and liquidity positions as well as the opportunity before us as we write a leading share of new mortgage insurance business in an extremely attractive market.
I will also provide highlights from our first quarter and a few insights into what we believe the year holds for our company and our industry.
Bob will then cover the details of our financial position.
In March we successfully improved Radian's capital and liquidity position through a capital raise which provided net proceeds of $689 million.
The capital raise translated into many immediate benefits including our strong holding company liquidity position with more than $800 million currently available after making a $115 million capital contribution to Radian Guaranty in the first quarter.
Combined with the contingency reserve release in the quarter from Radian Asset of $68 million Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio improved significantly to 18.6:1 at March 31 2013.
We expect to maintain a risk-to-capital ratio for Radian Guaranty of 20:1 or below for the foreseeable future while also preserving a strong level of holding company liquidity.
Our goal for raising capital was to provide Radian with the competitive edge in the near-term while positioning our company as the leader in the future housing finance system in the long-term.
Today our immediate priority is to write as much new high-quality business as possible as the FHA pulls back and as the housing market recovers fueling our growth over the next couple of years and enabling us to return to normalized earnings.
New insurance written or NIW is particularly attractive in today's environment with high credit quality and home prices rebounding from their downturn lows and our new business is expected to produce attractive returns.
From 2009 through the end of April we wrote a total of $96 billion of new business creating an impressive earnings ramp that we expect to fuel our return to profitability.
Slide 18 in our webcast presentation depicts the impact and profitability of these newer vintages on our total mortgage insurance portfolio at the end of last year.
And Slide 19 breaks out the performance by vintage in 2013.
These slides clearly show that the profit from our new business is beginning to overbound the legacy book losses.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the first quarter 2013 of $188 million or $1.30 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of fair value and other financial instrument losses of $173 million primarily resulting from the significant narrowing of our credit spread during the quarter.
It also includes compensation expenses of $38 million related to the estimated future value of performance awards which were impacted by the significant increase in our stock price in the first quarter.
It is important to note that we do not factor stock price changes in our annual financial projections.
Therefore our guidance for a return to marginal level of MI operating profitability this year does not incorporate the impact of stock price changes.
While the impact of fair value and other financial instrument losses was primarily concentrated in our Financial Guaranty business compensation expenses mostly impacted our mortgage insurance business results.
Absent this related compensation expense all other components of our MI operating results were equal to or better than our expectations.
Now I'd like to highlight the progress made against 3 important priorities for Radian.
Writing new mortgage insurance business mitigating losses in our financial insurance portfolio and reducing our Financial Guaranty exposure.
First focusing on new mortgage insurance business we started the year strong with NIW of $10.9 billion in the first quarter an increase of 69% over the first quarter of last year.
And we continued our momentum in April with a record NIW of $4.1 billion which compares to only $2.5 billion written in April last year and represents a new 5-year monthly record.
Based on our steady pipeline of business and prospective new customers we look forward to strong volume this year and we expect our total NIW this year to meaningfully surpass our 2012 volume.
As I mentioned last quarter mortgage originations over the past 2 years have been driven by high volumes of refinance activity.
At some point soon and we are beginning to see early signs the market is expected to transition from refi to purchase.
While this is expected to reduce overall originations the MI penetration for purchased loans is significantly higher than it is for refi loans.
In addition purchases tend to be more skewed towards monthly versus single premium MI.
As we look back at our single premium business activity it is important to note that we believe our single premium business written since 2009 has produced attractive returns and represents a meaningful incremental contribution.
This means we expect our overall financial results to benefit from using single premiums as a competing product against our industry's largest competitor the FHA.
Bob will discuss the profitability of this business in more detail.
Turning to the progress we've made in improving the composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio as you can see on Slide 20 on our webcast presentation as of the first quarter the 2009 through 2013 books grew to more than 48% of our primary risk in force and the most problematic 2006 and 2007 books are now down to 24%.
During the second quarter we expect our book of business written after 2008 will be larger than the book written in 2008 and prior.
Also on this slide you can see the success of the HARP program which improves the credit profile of our legacy book.
More than 10% of our risk in force has completed a HARP refinance.
And this combined with our newer high-quality book of business represents a strong portfolio that is now larger than our legacy book representing nearly 60% of our total primary mortgage insurance risk in force.
We are pleased with the recent extension of HARP through 2015 which should allow more borrowers to take advantage of the program.
Finally we continue to grow and diversify our customer base.
NIW has benefited both from the solid incremental volume generated by new customers as well as impressive increases in volume from existing customers.
26% or $2.8 billion of our NIW in the first quarter came from mortgage lenders new to Radian within the last 2 years.
At the same time NIW coming from lenders we've worked with for more than 2 years grew 50% to $8.1 billion in the first quarter this year compared to $5.4 billion in the first quarter of last year.
Next focusing on our continued efforts to mitigate losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio the total number of primary delinquent loans declined by 9% from the fourth quarter of last year and 17% year-over-year as shown on Slide 23.
And the default rate on our primary book fell further in the first quarter to 10.9% from 12.1% in the fourth quarter of last year.
We maintain $2.9 billion in loss reserves and our primary reserve for default was $30 426 in the first quarter up from $29 510 at the end of last year and $27 833 at March 31 2012.
We continue to see steady modification activity from HAMP and other modification efforts.
We are encouraged by these reports as well as by the payments made by borrowers even in late stages of default.
We believe this indicates an ultimate commitment to the home and to the mortgage despite the inability to make all of the payments needed to cure the loan.
As shown on Slide 13 33% of borrowers whose loans were in default made at least 1 monthly payment in the first quarter compared to 31% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 28% in the second quarter of last year when we first reported this statistic.
We believe that many of these payments reflect borrowers and modification programs.
Yet there are clearly others that may be trying to qualify for a mod or otherwise working with their servicer to award foreclosure.
While we cannot predict borrowers' behavior or the success of any 1 program we are encouraged by the steady pace of existing modification programs as well as by the FHFA's recently announced streamline modification program.
We estimate that approximately 1/3 of our delinquent loans are eligible for this new program.
We are also encouraged by data and news headlines touting rising home prices.
In April CoreLogic cited a 10% increase in home prices across the country over the past year with an additional 10% rise expected in the year ahead.
Finally our Financial Guaranty business continues to serve as an important and unique source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
We have successfully reduced exposure in that business from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $28 billion in the first quarter of this year.
This represents a decline of our total Financial Guaranty risk exposure by 76%.
In January we completed the commutation of our remaining reinsurance risk from FGIC which resulted in a contingency release -- the reserve release of $7 million.
And in February we released $61 million of contingency reserves that combine to support our strong risk-to-capital for Radian Guaranty this quarter.
The next dividend payment to Radian Guaranty of approximately $37 million is expected this year.
As of March 31 2013 Radian Asset maintains a statutory surplus of $1.2 billion.
Our industry continues to slowly but steadily regain share from the FHA.
The FHA's latest price increase in April its third in a year coupled with the elimination in June of FHA mortgage insurance premium cancellation should help further that trajectory.
Turning to the legislation affecting our industry we continue to actively engage with legislators and other decision-makers in Washington.
In February we sponsored our fourth Housing Finance Discussion Panel on Capitol Hill where a group of mortgage industry experts unanimously supported a healthier balance between the public and private sectors in today's mortgage market.
We continue to hear this sentiment as a consistent theme.
What continues to excite us at Radian and represents our most important going-forward priority is moving closer to achieving normalized earnings.
This will be driven by 3 important factors.
First the size and potential earnings power of the high-quality MI business we have already written since 2008.
Second the continued management of our legacy mortgage insurance book which is slowly but steadily becoming a smaller piece of our total MI portfolio.
Third our success in writing even more new high-quality future business driven by our strong customer relationships and a highly skilled and dedicated Radian team.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thanks S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the first quarter of 2013 our improved capital and liquidity positions as of quarter end and some updated expectations regarding 2013.
The MI provision for losses was $132 million this quarter compared to $307 million last quarter and $235 million a year ago.
The significant improvement in incurred losses compared to prior quarters reflects a much improved delinquency trend.
You'll see on Slide 11 that a relatively large component of incurred losses this quarter was from the new default line.
However there was a modest level of existing reserve development primarily from a small reduction in our estimated benefit for future rescissions and denial.
The amounts in our quarter end balance sheet representing future denials and rescissions was down to $392 million compared to the yearend total of $455 million.
For the balance of 2013 we expect a much reduced incurred loss line from the comparable 2012 quarters driven by a relative decline in new defaults and no material changes to default composition or net roll rate expectation.
Paid claims in 2013 are now estimated to be between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion.
While this represents a substantial increase from our previous guidance it is solely a matter of accelerated timing.
While newly submitted claims were stable in 2012 and are down for the first quarter which is positive our claims resolution process has become more efficient which will allow us to clear some of our pending claim inventory and pay valid claims more quickly.
This updated claims paid forecast does not change our incurred loss expectation at all.
As S.A.
mentioned Radian has written a meaningful volume of single premium business over the past few years as we have successfully marketed singles as a competitive product to FHA.
While singles are a discounted product such business written since the beginning of 2009 has been very profitable with loss ratios in 2012 and '13 that are similar to those of monthly premium and other business written during the same time period.
In addition the singles product helps manage our duration risk.
The projected ROEs of the MI business are based on certain important assumption ones being mortgage duration.
The duration of the 2009 and subsequent books is developing at a shorter average life than was expected when the business was written which all else equal benefits singles relative to monthlies.
This unexpected trend is a reminder that it is very hard to predict the future so we believe a balanced strategy of hedging against faster-than-expected prepays with some proportion of single premium business makes sense.
Beginning April 1 we have prospectively reduced the quarter share percentage for new business going into our external reinsurance deal from 20% down to 5% and we have -- as we have acted quickly to deploy some of the new capital we've raised.
We will also have the ability to recapture a portion of the quarter share risk ceded at yearend 2014 and 2015.
We view this reinsurance as a valuable capital management tool that we use in 2012 to help solidify our market position.
We are happy to continue using reinsurance in 2013 albeit at a reduced level that allows us to capture more of the exceptional current business profitability.
Fair value losses for the quarter were caused by the significant tightening [indiscernible] fair value results [indiscernible].
The deal is a $393 million CLO Financial Guaranty exposure.
We understand that the downgrade of the transaction was based primarily on a downgrade of MBIA and we currently do not expect underlying losses on the transaction.
However if there are eventual losses we believe MBIA will pay such losses.
Slide 9 depicts our current balance sheet fair value positions along with the expected net credit losses or recoveries and fair value exposures.
Based on our projections regarding future credit loss payments and recoveries we expect to add approximately $423 million or $2.45 to pre-tax fair value over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $361 million and adding the present value of expected credit loss recovery of $62 million.
Both of these numbers are shown on Slide 9.
Of course in quarters like this one the liability could grow even further in the short term before it eventually comes down.
Operating expenses this quarter were impacted significantly by $38 million of variable compensation expenses for the quarter compared to $13.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and $8 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Of the $38 million approximately $33 million is contained in the MI segment.
The fair value calculation that is the basis for this GAAP expense estimates the future value of performance awards.
The calculation takes actual stock price into account but also includes volatility and relative performance both of which were impacted by the steep increase in Radian's stock price we saw in the first quarter.
While the fair value calculations determines the period expenses the actual payouts to the recipients under these award plans will be made over the next several years and will be based on stock price and performance results at the time of payout.
Such expense in future quarters will be determined primarily by Radian's stock price changes.
Policy acquisition cost in MI were affected this quarter by an acceleration of amortization resulting from a lower-than-expected persistency level we've been experiencing on our recently written books.
Because of the GAAP net loss for the quarter caused mainly by fair value changes as of March 31 2013 the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is up to a little over $1 billion or $5.90 per share.
We continue to believe that our full DTA will be realized in the future with the full recovery still expected to occur sometime in 2015.
Our holding company liquidity stands at approximately $815 million after taking into account a $115 million contribution to rating guaranty made in March.
We plan to make additional necessary contributions from the holding company in order to keep our risk-to-capital ratio below 20:1 and we do not believe that such contributions will materially reduce our current holding company liquidity.
We have $55 million of remaining par maturing in June 2015 with the balance of our outstanding debt due in 2017 or later.
As a reminder about our convertible debt accounting we currently carry $339 million of the $450 million convert issued in 2010 as debt on our balance sheet and $322 million of the recently issued $400 million convert as debt.
The $189 million combined difference between the face amount of convertible debt and the amount currently carried as debt on the balance sheet is currently in additional paid-in capital.
This amount will be accreted into debt over time and will thus reduce our book value as we record interest expense for GAAP purposes that is higher than the actual cash payment of interest.
Our book value per share ended the quarter at $5.39 and was impacted during the quarter primarily by the various components of our capital raise and by the significant change in fair value derivative.
I'd now like to turn the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a 2-part question around capital.
Bob is it fair to say that -- let's pick some point out in the future where you're at normalized earnings normalized ROE of 15% that at that point you'll actually be accumulating capital faster than that because you're not actually paying any taxes.
And therefore probably realistically growing capital faster than you can actually grow risk? I think that's a good assumption Mark.
Now the tax part might come back in chunks.
So that might be a little bit lumpy as you recover some of the DTA but I think that's a fair statement.
And I think at the point when we recover to normalized earnings we will be accreting capital and absent an even more growth in the insurance we're writing we could be accreting capital faster than we needed essentially to support the risk that we're writing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the follow-up to that is given that in your very significant excess capital position now at the holding company can you tell me about kind of the intermediate longer-term plans for that capital that's sitting there? Mark at this point -- this is S.A.
It is premature for us to think ahead.
At this point our focus is to first return to profitability and to write as much good business as we can.
And capital is a very strong indicator of strength and the liquidity we have while -- in addition to the strong ratio we have the amount of liquidity and flexibility that we have in terms of our holding company liquidity we believe are strong points in projecting a strong image to our counterparties and to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Next one is can you give us a sense for kind of what your longer-term expectations for the direction of kind of your average premium? Do you still have kind of higher premium stuff running off that's putting some pressure on that? And will you actually get a little bit of a central offset as you reduce the amount that you're -- of risk that you're reinsuring? No Mark.
I mean I think it's fair to assume that the run rate of the earn premium rate will be similar to what it is.
We're still writing a little bit less 95 LTV business than is normal.
So the normal mix historically was 50-50 and we're writing more 90 LTV which has a lower premium rate.
So I think there's a little bit of upside there.
But I think the run rate is pretty fair at this point.
Mark to the extent that the persistency is down and the short life of the single is shortened we collect all that premium upfront.
Yes the single premium loan pays off early then we're going to recognize all the UPR at once.
And that's going to -- that will make earn premium a little bit bumpy from quarter-to-quarter depending -- but I think in terms of average rate I think it's fair to assume it's going to be pretty steady.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one last one.
Were there any changes to your assumption in the quarter on denial reinstatement rate that's built into your IBNR reserve? No material ones.
We always update based on what we're seeing but there was nothing substantial this quarter.
We have a question from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to follow up on your comment on the stock comp.
So if your share price is flat this quarter does that stock comp number go to 0? It does not.
There would be a base significantly lower.
So think about the numbers that I put out there for fourth quarter of '12 was 12.5.
First quarter of '12 was 8.
Those are more of the base expenses that will be really in any given quarter absent a downtick to the stock price.
But then the amount above those numbers was really generated by the increase in stock price.
And then this quarter we also had some volatility increases and relative performance increases.
So all of those kind of hit this quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then just to confirm on Slide 9 if I look at that I mean what you're basically saying the book value is essentially understated by that $2.45? And as the Financial Guaranty business runs off as expected that kind of comes back into GAAP book value? Right.
It's -- book value is obviously fairly stated.
But what we -- we point that out because these are fair value exposures for which we pretty much don't expect credit losses.
So if that's the case then they are going to turn around.
And when the exposure goes away then whatever fair value liability is going to turn around usually it's going to happen over time.
But yes that's why we point that out.
And this is a fairly substantial number.
Grew this quarter because of the spread tightening which impacted the change in fair value this quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That makes sense.
And then just in terms of your provision for new loans if I just look at the number this quarter divided by new notices it looks like it works either around 7 300 a loan.
And it's down a little bit from last quarter.
Is there something seasonal in the first quarter where your provision per loan is a little lower? It wouldn't be seasonal.
So seasonal would impact a number of loans.
So any of the reserves that we're going to put up I would say has been consistent.
It's consistent with what we've done for the past several years.
Nothing really changed.
So any difference in that number you're calculating may be just the size or the coverage or something that wouldn't be related to a change we've made.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of thinking about that number going forward it will really be driven by this -- by new notices that are coming in? Yes.
Typically that's what we expect.
Now we're always going to have some existing development.
It's been slower to materialize over the last say 1.5 years or so.
And we're hoping that continues and eventually gets to something that's negligible.
Our next question from the line of Douglas Harter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could walk through your thought process around arriving at the 5% the reinsurance level that you guys are going to use going forward? Well Doug I mean we've said we've used reinsurance and we value it.
So we value the use that we had we value our partner in this transaction.
However we're in a much better capital position.
We're writing very high-quality new business so it clearly made sense to us to reduce the amount of go-forward share of business with the quota share.
But to remain in a relationship is important as well.
Doug it becomes more strategic than necessary going forward.
In the past it was important for us or we felt it was important for us to manage our risk-to-capital ratio.
Now we could take it all back if we wanted to.
But we believe a 5% reinsurance protects -- allows us to preserve our strategic relationship and gives us flexibility if we should need it in the future.
Our next question from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Looking at Slide 12 this quarter versus last quarter it looks like the projected default-to-claim rates are coming down modestly.
Is that just sort of the aging in the rolling and the higher claims in the quarter or is there a change in your assumptions on the lower default-to-claim rates? Jack I think they went up a little bit from last quarter due...
LLLP Research Division</strong> Oh right right right.
They went up.
Right.
That's right.
I'm looking at the wrong...
And that's a mix shift more than anything Jack.
So if you think about just the percentage of loans in 3 payments or fewer is down because the cure percentage there was very very high.
So that's really what's going on.
It's a mix shift.
We haven't changed our default-to-claim rate expectations within the bucket.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then following on Bose's question on the stock comp expense.
Obviously you mentioned sort of an 8 to 12 8 10 12 base.
Above that sort of I guess the $30 million or $25 million this quarter is there a way to think about stock price movements translating into a certain expense there that we can model in? Yes.
We thought a lot about that.
It's difficult to do Jack because you've got these other components.
You've got the volatility component that goes into this fair value model and you also have this relative performance component.
So -- but I would say that most of the future changes are going to be driven by the stock price and I think you can get relatively close if you look at what the stock price change this quarter and the amount above sort of that base you can get fairly close to expectations with the caveat that you've got these other things happening that could impact the number as well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then more big picture-wise curious to get thoughts of the team there on the nomination of Representative Watt does this perhaps signal a shift in GSE reform? Curious as to your thoughts this morning.
It's Teresa.
I think that it's -- clearly the administration has been focused on trying to get a permanent director into that role rather than having someone in the role who's acting.
So we think that means that potentially there could be some shift in.
But overall there doesn't seem to be any interest in having some major shift in direction there.
Clearly Congressman Watt has a lot of experience on house financial services which is a good thing.
So I think we'll see how that sort of evolves in terms of Senate confirmation and going forward.
And we have a question from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
As we think about the progression of your earnings over the course of the year I think you said that your expectation that you're profitable excludes the impact of additional comp-related expense.
So does that imply that you could essentially break even on a quarter basis the rest of the year and meet that goal? I think it means exactly what we said.
So we didn't project these kinds of stock price changes in the statement about a return to MI profitability.
So we're still on course to achieve that as long as you understand that the component for the stock price changes was not really incorporated there.
I think that's what we still believe.
Okay.
Great.
And when we think about the fair value of derivatives was there an element of nonperformance risk in there? So in other words your own credit spreads came in so there's a negative impact in the quarter? Yes.
That was -- think about that number the change of fair value for the quarter about half of it was due to that credit spread tightening for Radian and the other half was this Financial Guaranty exposure that I talked about with regard to the downgrade of that transaction.
Right.
Is there any way to think of this -- I know it's noneconomic but it does impact book value.
So is there any way to think about what further tightening in your credit spreads would mean to fair value of these derivatives? Yes.
We provide sensitivities in our quarterly filings.
So if you look at the sensitivities you can kind of follow in it.
And it comes relatively close in terms of x percent tightening of our spread would mean x to the nonperformance risk.
And our final question will come from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Bob can you provide an idea of the unit paid pattern as you go about cleaning up the pending inventory? How are we going to see it develop over the next 3 quarters? I assume there's going to be kind of a spiked bell curve? Yes I think I would say for 2013 I think you'll see a ramp up because this is about getting these claims out and the process.
So I think you'll see the second quarter may be a little bit higher than the third quarter a little bit higher because we're still improving the process.
So it's not going to -- I wouldn't say we're going to have this huge spike 1 quarter and then come down kind of thing.
It's really -- we're really getting as many out the door as we can and I think that's kind of the pattern.
LLC</strong> Okay.
In terms of this comp expense it's a shame to see good stock performance weren't on your results.
Is there any cost-effective way to hedge this out and negate it? Geoff that's an interesting question.
And the most important thing is as you said in one sense it's a good problem to have and everybody should be happy that our stock went up as much as it did.
And it was driven in part by -- this was driven in part by the fact that for the years in which where this award was given out we did not have enough equity to give out equity-settled awards.
And we will consider equity-settled awards as opposed to cash-settled awards in the future.
LLC</strong> And then Bob last question is more of a product question.
Given your current assumption in pricing can you tell us what the ROE expectation is on your single versus your monthly? We've said a number of times that the expectation on the singles when we write it using the model is about 10% all-in which compares to the mid-teens on the monthlies.
However it looks like the persistency on the more recent books is a little bit lower and a couple of the vintages a lot lower than expectations so that could bring the actuals closer or more in line.
The other thing we've seen is that the single premium business we've written has been extremely high credit quality.
And in fact a little bit better from a measurable standpoint like a FICO standpoint and the loss performance has been exceptional.
So I think we can say that we expect the business that we've written over the past few years to be profitable and to have attractive returns that we would be very happy to achieve on any business we wrote.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry 1 last follow-up for Teresa.
Is there any traction in the discussions in terms of what future capital rules are for a risk-adjusted type of capital leverage role? Are the GSEs and FHFA entertaining such a thought or is it still kind of deaf ears? There's still sort of discussion about a number of different options.
But at this point it's still unclear when they're going to come out with something.
A number of years ago both Freddie and Fannie had sort of proposals around this.
And the industry has asked the FHFA to sort of help kind of have more of a uniform view going forward.
So we're hopeful that that will be the case.
But we don't know -- we know they're thinking about this but we don't know when to expect something.
We do expect that when they do publish something it will be more likely a proposal for comment.
And I'll now turn it back to our speakers for closing remarks.
Well thank you operator and thank you all for participating on our call and look forward to seeing you on the next call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference will be recorded.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications Ms.
Emily Riley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's second quarter 2013 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the Risk Factors included in our 2012 Form 10-K as well as subsequent quarterly and other reports and registration statements filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in our company.
On today's call I will provide highlights from the second quarter including the attainment of several important milestones.
And I will also share my thoughts on the topics and trends important for our industry.
Following my remarks Bob will cover the details of our financial position.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the second quarter 2013 of $33 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
This includes net losses on investments of $130 million and the impact of fair value and other financial instrument gains of $88 million.
Most importantly our mortgage insurance business achieved profitability absent the impact of fair value gains and losses for the quarter and 6 months.
Needless to say at Radian we've been working hard to achieve this significant milestone and we are extremely encouraged by the improved performance of our mortgage insurance business.
I'm also pleased to point out several additional milestones achieved by Radian.
We continue to write a leading share of the new mortgage insurance business in an extremely attractive market perhaps the best business we have ever written.
We recorded our second highest volume of primary flow business in Radian's history in June and for the second quarter.
We have successfully improved our portfolio and in the second quarter as expected the profitable high-quality books of mortgage insurance business written since 2008 represented more than half of our total portfolio.
You can see on Slide 17 from our webcast presentation that for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 the primary earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages far exceeded the comparable negative sum from the 2008 and prior vintages.
In the second quarter the MI incurred loss ratio dropped to less than 70% which represents another significant improvement.
Finally since 2008 we have been successfully reducing the exposure in our financial guaranty business and have reduced it by 76% including many of the riskier segments of the portfolio.
Radian Asset has only $7.9 million of exposure to general obligation bonds for the highly publicized municipal bankruptcy in the city of Detroit for which we hold a loss reserve of nearly half that exposure.
Radian maintains strong holding company liquidity of approximately $816 million and Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio is a competitive 19.7:1 at June 30 2013.
We continue to expect to maintain a risk-to-capital ratio for Radian Guaranty of 20:1 or below for the foreseeable future while also preserving a strong level of holding company liquidity.
Bob will cover the upcoming GSE eligibility requirements which we expect to be issued by the end of the year.
New mortgage insurance written continues to consist of high-quality loans.
We wrote a total of $105 billion of new MI business from 2009 through June of this year which is expected to produce substantial profits and attractive returns.
And our primary insurance in force now stands at $151 billion compared with $130 billion a year ago an increase of 16%.
It is the new vintage mix size and performance of this growing insurance in force that is expected to drive our future earnings.
Slide 18 in our webcast presentation breaks out the recent performance by vintage.
And I would draw your attention to our profitable post-2008 vintages as well as our legacy book of business written in 2005 and prior both of which contributed to our profitability in the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier a high-quality business written after 2008 represents 53% of our primary risk in force and now outweighs our legacy book of business.
We believe this achievement is unique to Radian among legacy MI companies and is the direct result of our market share gains over the last 2 years.
You can see the details on Slide 19 where the most problematic 2006 and '07 books are now down to less than 17% of the total portfolio.
The slide also shows that including HARP refis which improved the credit profile of our legacy book new business underwritten since 2009 now represents 64% of Radian's mortgage insurance primary risk in force.
As you know the HARP program was extended through 2015 which should allow additional deserving borrowers to take advantage of the program.
It is important to note that we continue to expect a marginal level of mortgage insurance profitability for the full year 2013.
As a reminder this forecast excludes the impact of stock price changes on our long-term compensation expense as well as net fair value gains and losses.
Now I'd like to highlight the progress made against 3 important priorities for Radian: writing new mortgage insurance business mitigating losses on our mortgage insurance portfolio and reducing our financial guaranty exposure.
First we wrote $13.4 billion of new mortgage insurance business in the second quarter an increase of 60% year-over-year.
While it's too early to provide volume for July we are on track to reach net new business comparable to or surpassing our outstanding June NIW.
As I've mentioned before mortgage originations over the past 2 years have been driven by high volumes of refinance activity.
We are beginning to see signs of a marked refi slowdown and a shift in the market to more purchase business which is likely to reduce the overall origination market.
Thus far interest rates do not appear to have meaningfully slowed down purchase activity and it must be noted that the MI penetration for purchased loans is about 3x to 4x greater than for refi loans.
While further increases in interest rates could reduce purchase activity they are also likely to increase our persistency rates which will help us grow our insurance in force.
On average every 1% increase in persistency means that approximately $1.5 billion of insurance in force remains on our books each year.
Also worth noting is that purchase patterns tend to be seasonally skewed slow in the first quarter strongest in the middle quarters and then slowing again in the fourth quarter.
We also continue to grow and diversify our customer base which has helped us grow and maintain our share of new business.
This year we signed up 117 new lender customers and our pipeline of prospective new customers remains strong.
And the new customers bring more volume as more than 25% of our new insurance written in the first 6 months came from customers new to Radian within the last 2 years.
We also continue to gain more business from existing customers which is a good indicator of how positive they feel about us.
NIW coming from lenders we've worked with for more than 2 years grew 46% from the second quarter of last year.
We're supporting our customers with a continually enhanced industry-leading sales and training team made up of a combination of seasoned as well as new talent.
In the first half of 2013 our trainers reached 50% more customers than we did in all of 2012.
The Radian Foundation series our newest suite of courses focused on basic underwriting and processing is gaining popularity.
After only 6 months more than 250 participants have completed the course to earn their certificate.
Next focusing on our continued efforts to mitigate losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio the total number of primary delinquent loans declined by 8% from the first quarter of this year and 21% year-over-year as you can see on Slide 22.
And the default rate on our primary book fell further in the first quarter to 9.7%.
We maintain $2.7 billion in loss reserves and our primary reserve for default increased slightly from the first quarter to $30 932 up from $28 410 a year ago.
HAMP and other modification programs continue to produce steady results and borrowers show signs of commitment to their homes and mortgage even in the latest stages of default.
As you can see on Slide 12 31% of borrowers whose loans were in default made at least 1 monthly payment in the second quarter.
And repeat defaults represent 78% of new defaults in this quarter.
Historically redefaulted loans have been less likely to result in a claim than first time defaults.
Finally our financial guaranty business continues to serve as an important and unique source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
We have successfully reduced our exposure in that business from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $27 billion in the second quarter of this year.
Radian Asset paid a dividend to Radian Guaranty in July of $36 million for a total of $420 million paid since 2008.
We expect Radian Asset to continue to pay dividends in the future years.
As of June 30 2013 Radian Asset maintains statutory surplus of $1.2 billion and additional claims-paying resources of $396 million including $248 million of contingency reserves.
The private mortgage insurance industry continues to slowly but steadily regain share from the FHA.
We estimate that penetration for our industry was 8.7% in the second quarter up 12% from the first quarter of this year and up an impressive 30% since the second quarter of last year.
The FHA's latest price increase in April coupled with the elimination in June of FHA mortgage insurance premium cancellation should help continue the shift of business from FHA to private mortgage insurance.
In terms of housing market trends CoreLogic recently reported May statistics citing rising home prices for 15 consecutive months and the largest year-over-year increase in the last 7 years.
While rising interest rates have recently made headlines they remain at historically low levels.
According to the National Association of Realtors existing home sales were at their highest level in May since November 2009 when buyers took advantage of the cash stimulus.
Turning to the regulation and legislation affecting our industry.
We continue to actively engage with legislators and other decision-makers in Washington.
The qualified mortgage rule or QM which will go into effect early next year closely mirrors the mortgage lending environment we've successfully been operating in today.
And the final Basel III rule preserves the important role for private mortgage insurance.
The bipartisan Corker-Warner bill recently introduced on GSE reform also explicitly supports the increased use of private mortgage insurance for low down payment loans in the housing market.
Overall we continue to hear a resounding support on Capitol Hill for a healthier balance between public and private sectors in today's mortgage market which is extremely positive for our industry.
In closing our improved financial performance in the first half of this year particularly in our MI business continues to energize our team at Radian.
This continued improvement remains our top priority and will be driven by 3 important factors: First the size and potential earnings power of the high-quality new MI business we have already written since 2008 and our growing insurance in force book.
Second the continued management of our legacy mortgage insurance book which is now a smaller piece of our total MI portfolio than the high-quality book written after 2008.
We expect the legacy book will continue to improve through HARP modifications and home price appreciation.
Third our success in building a strong sales and operations platform to continue writing more high-quality future business driven by our strong customer relationships that has earned us the #1 market share position.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thanks S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the second quarter 2013 our capital and liquidity positions as of quarter end and some updated expectations regarding 2013.
The MI provision for losses was $136 million this quarter compared to $132 million last quarter and $208 million a year ago.
This is the second consecutive quarter with an MI loss ratio of approximately 70% reflecting the improving delinquency trends and stable claim submission as well as a steady increase in earned premium from our growing book of business.
We have not changed our frequency expectations on either new or aged defaults.
MI earned premium in the second quarter also benefited from an approximate $9 million reduction in the premium refund accrual relating to future rescission.
For the balance of 2013 we continue to expect a much improved incurred loss line from the comparable 2012 quarters driven by a relative decline in new defaults and no material changes to net low rate expectation.
Paid claims for the full year 2013 are expected to be approximately $1.4 billion.
The reduction in average claim paid this quarter is due primarily to lower average loan balances and coverage percentages on claims paid in the quarter.
Curtailments have remained elevated which has also positively impacted several.
We've been successful in reducing our primary pending claims inventory from 17 625 at year-end 2012 to 15 018 as of June 30 2013.
And we anticipate that pending claim inventory will continue to decline.
Single premium business written since the beginning of 2009 has continued to perform well in 2013 with loss ratios similar to those for monthly premium business.
While our pricing is in line with the general industry pricing we have chosen to sell the product to our customers as a competitive product to FHA.
We expect to see our new business mix shift towards more monthly premium business due to the higher percentage of purchase volume in the mortgage origination market and the decline or elimination of borrower paid singles from the implementation of the Dodd-Frank qualified mortgage rule early next year.
Borrower paid singles are currently about 28% of our singles volume and 9% of our overall production.
Beginning April 1 we reduced the quota share percentage for new business ceded to our external reinsurance partner from 20% to 5%.
That helped reduce the amount of ceded premiums written significantly in the second quarter.
In addition we will also have the option to recapture a portion of the ceded quota share risk at year-end 2014 and 2015.
Those decisions will be based on the performance of the business and our capital position at that time.
The unrealized losses in our investment portfolio this quarter were caused by rising interest rates which reduced the market value of our fixed income portfolio.
These losses are temporary as we expect to hold the investments are GAAP only and are not recorded for statutory purposes and therefore do not impact our risk-to-capital ratio.
Most of our investment portfolio is classified as trading which requires us to run unrealized gains and losses on those securities through the P&amp;L.
As a reminder each quarter we disclose the sensitivity of our investment portfolio to interest rate shift in our 10-Q which provides a reasonable estimate for potential changes in portfolio value.
Fair value gains for the quarter were caused primarily by an upgrade of MBIA during the quarter.
This had the effect of reversing much of last quarter's fair value loss caused by MBIA's downgrade on a large second to pay financial guaranty exposure.
Slide 9 depicts our current balance sheet fair value positions along with the expected net credit losses or recoveries on fair valued exposures.
Based on our projections we expect to add approximately $337 million or just under $2 to pretax book value over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $275 million and adding the present value of expected credit loss recoveries of $62 million.
In the first quarter of this year operating expenses were impacted significantly by $38 million of long-term incentive compensation expenses.
The comparable expense in the second quarter of 2013 is approximately $19 million which includes the impact of a smaller increase in our stock price during the quarter.
Of the $19 million approximately $7 million was a direct result of Radian's stock price increase of just under $1 during the quarter.
Approximately $4 million represented a second quarter-specific expense associated with our regular newly issued performance-based long-term compensation awards in the second quarter of 2013.
The balance of the expense this quarter or approximately $8 million is the base long-term incentive compensation expense for the remainder of 2013 to which any stock price or other impact will be added.
Policy acquisition costs were down this quarter primarily due to higher persistency of recent vintages which slows down our amortization schedule of costs that were recently added to the policy acquisition asset.
Our valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset is currently a little over $1 billion or just under $6 per share.
We continue to believe that our full DTA will be realized in the future as we become profitable with a full recovery still expected to occur some time in 2015.
Our risk-to-capital ratio ended the quarter at 19.7:1.
Our current plan is to manage our risk-to-capital below 20:1 and we have substantial holding company resources with which to do so.
We anticipate making a contribution to Radian Guaranty in the third quarter to support the expected risk in force growth and to remain below 20:1.
While the details of the new GSE eligibility capital requirements for MIs are still unknown we expect them to be issued by year end.
We have heard about possible requirements in the 18:1 range and potential additional capital requirements for legacy exposure and/or subsidiary capital haircuts.
We fully expect to have the ability to comply with any such requirements within the implementation timeframe.
Our holding company liquidity stands at approximately $816 million.
We have $55 million of remaining par maturing in June of 2015 with the balance of our outstanding debt due in 2017 or later.
In terms of future impact to our GAAP book value in addition to ongoing profits or losses the primary items to consider are the valuation allowance against our DTA and the fair value liability that I referred to earlier which are expected to add to book value as well as the equity component of our convertible debt which is approximately $182 million as of June 30 and will be accreted into debt over time thus reducing our pretax book value by a little over $1.
I now would like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is going to come from Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually the first question was just on your average premium.
We calculated a slight increase.
So I was just curious if that was a blip or is the premiums trending up based on any sort of mix shift? Bose as I mentioned we had this $9 million recognition of earned premium that was a rescission refund accrual reduction.
So that's going to impact if you just take the earned premium and do it that way it's going to impact the number a little bit.
So if you pull that out I think you'll be pretty close to our constant average premium rate.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you gave some details on your single premium production but do you have the percentage of single premium of your insurance in force? I believe last we looked it was about 20%.
So it might be up slightly from that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of the cure rates.
What cure rates do you assume on new defaults? And how does that vary just based on the level of redefaulting that these borrowers are doing? We do tell you what our roll rate our frequency expectations are.
I believe that's Slide 11.
And that's going to tell you by bucket of what our -- if you look for example at 3 payments or fewer with a gross roll rate of 25% we're expecting 75% not to be claims.
I think that's what you're asking.
And then it's different obviously for the different default buckets.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then actually one last thing.
I just wanted to follow up on your comment that you made about the subsidiary capital haircuts.
Is it too early to tell what that could look like? Just any color on that.
It is too early to tell.
We've only heard that that's a possibility.
We've not heard anything further.
And we'll have to see once the eligibility requirements come out what that looks like if it is even [indiscernible].
And our next question is going to come from Doug Harter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on the single premium.
Just wondering if you saw any impact from the higher rates yet or should we expect that more to come sort of in the back half of the year? This is Teresa.
I don't think we've seen any impact at this point.
Obviously we do see a higher percentage of singles being used with the refi business.
And so with the refis sort of tailing off as we would -- as we're already seeing we would expect to see some reduction there just on that basis.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just on the persistency has that slowed down or I guess persistency increased or the prepayments slowed yet? Or again is that sort of more later? Yes.
I mean I think you're going to see that happen.
We've seen it on the more recent vintages for sure.
I don't think you'll see our overall persistency for the year which we report change very much from last quarter.
But I think you will see that increase over the next several quarters.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the financial guarantor you said you expect to be able to continue to get dividends out of there.
At what point -- as the risk continues to fall there might the pace of dividends be able to accelerate as -- to be able to pull that capital out of the financial guarantor? Well to this point we've only paid ordinary dividends.
Our goal has been to reduce the exposure which we've done a good job of.
So in terms of ordinary dividends we would expect steady levels of ordinary dividends.
But as we reduce the exposure we're putting the financial guaranty company in a very good position.
Research Division</strong> And is there a risk-to-capital level there that you would target before sort of looking to go after non-ordinary dividends? I don't think there's any formula.
But certainly what we've done and what we continue to do at the company puts us in a much better position.
And our next question will come from Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Looking at the denial reinstatement page in the slide deck pretty big falloff in 2Q and clearly a positive.
I know there's some sort of statute of limitations there 12 months or so.
Are we -- is that a number that looks right going forward? Are we sort of out of the window where those denials can be reinstated? Is that 13% the right number to think about on a go-forward? I think the percentage that you're referring to is the most recent quarter.
So that's not going to be indicative of what it's going to be.
We still generally use 60% as our initial denial reinstatement rate.
And then it comes down over time.
So that first quarter that 13% that's going to go up very likely.
So we haven't changed our expectations.
The 60% is our general expectation.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then with your -- sort of like your late stage and your pending claim assumptions they've kind of walked up since the beginning of 2012.
So it looks -- I'm assuming you're getting more conservative on the view of those later stages and it's I guess to be expected but do these numbers go materially higher from here? I guess there are maybe 600 basis points on the pending over the last 1.5 years or so? Or are we pretty close to sort of where we peak on that? Yes.
I think you've seen the changes more relating to our expectation that there'll be a reduction in denials and rescissions over time.
I don't think the growth rates have changed in quite some time.
But over time we do expect denials and rescissions to come down so the net will likely go up.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one.
FG provisions on a year-to-year basis despite what's been a nice ongoing decline in risk commutation that sort of thing is that specifically tied to any municipal event or anything? Or what can you say about that increase in the FG provision? Yes it was pretty much Detroit for the quarter.
Last quarter as I recall it was almost nothing.
This quarter it was still very small.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And that got you to the 50% reserve on Detroit is that the way to think about it? Yes.
Yes.
Nearly 50% yes.
And our next question is going to come from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I'm just wondering what it would take for you to get to change your assumption around the gross projected default-to-claim rate? What would you need to see to maybe bring that down in the more recent delinquencies? Sean I think it -- we use historical experience.
So certainly an improvement of cure rates would go a long way.
I think that's the -- would be the biggest driver.
Or in some other way we've got to be convinced that the defaults won't go to claim.
We give a lot of evidence that people don't make payments.
And the aging of the defaults there we give a series of slides that show -- or demonstrate why these aged defaults may not be paid claims.
But I think evidence would be improvement in cure rate for sure or other evidence that they won't be paid claims.
Okay great.
And going back to the singles.
You mentioned a few numbers.
Did you say it was -- singles were 9% of overall production in recent quarters? The borrower-paid singles we specifically said would likely decline or go away with QM's implementations.
That's 9% of our overall production or a little less than 1/3 of our singles.
Okay.
And so the overall single production is around 28% of the total or has been in recent quarters? Yes yes.
About 30%.
A little less -- about 30%.
Okay.
And where do you think that might shake out if interest rates continue to rise or stay where they are? We certainly have it going down into the 20s and perhaps down to 20% over time.
Okay.
So one last question.
Can you remind us what the rationale for holding your investments as trading securities when your competitors and I believe most insurers hold them as AFS? Yes.
We classified our investments or most of them as trading.
If you go back to 2007 2008 we had a lot of uncertainty at that time regarding future claims and operating cash flow being negative.
So there was an expectation that we would likely need to liquidate investments and that really drove the classification to trading.
And that requires us to run any unrealized gains or losses through the P&amp;L.
It ends up in the same place.
It ends up in retained earnings but -- or in the balance sheet but we run it through the P&amp;L because of that.
And our next question will come from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First I have a follow-up on your investment portfolio.
Given the fact that it is categorized in trading in the income statement at least GAAP income statement and the volatility that creates have you thought about repositioning that to get a little more defensive and have less duration into a potentially further rising rate environment? Yes.
There's certainly some thought into reevaluating especially due to our current expectations regarding holding the securities that we own.
So yes we've had some thought about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Could you talk a little bit about how the distribution of new notices by vintage here has been moving? Are you seeing a clear shift towards less of the '06 and '07 and more of the newer loans? Yes.
I think over time we've been seeing gradual credit burnout.
So the percentage coming from kind of the later -- earlier vintages has been decreasing pretty steadily over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I would assume as that evolves you should see an expectation in your ultimate cure rates on those right? I mean I assume you're not assuming the same level of cures on an '06 as you are on a 2011 loan.
Is that fair? Well to the extent that there are various vintages within the population that we observe I would say yes.
So if the population turns over over time and it's all recent vintages and the cure rates are higher that's going to be reflected.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I think -- Bob I think you mentioned that there's a plan to downstream some capital into the MI subsidiary in the quarter.
Did you say how much you're planning to push down? No we didn't say Mark.
It's really going to depend on the growth in the books.
So we're -- obviously we're growing our books significantly.
We're writing a lot.
So it's going to depend on the growth that growth the persistency and also obviously the results.
But the plan is to manage to just below 20:1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And next question.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what I should be modeling for average paid claims.
If you were to pay all of your claims today all the loans -- delinquent loans you expect to pay out do you have a sense Bob for what the average claim would be relative to what it was this quarter? Should we expect that to trend down flat or be up? Yes.
I mean I think it would be in the range that it's been this year.
Quarter to quarter the average claim that's tended to go up and down more related to what I said the size the coverage percentage.
So it's more or less coincidental.
But if you look at the average claim over a period I think that's a fair estimate for the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Just really quick questions.
First is there any impact on your average premium from the decision to reduce the amount that you're reinsuring? Does that flow through the premium line? That will -- yes that will reduce the ceded premium.
But that's going to happen over time because we've got this existing reinsured book.
So you're not going to see that right away.
You're going to see it much more in premiums written than you will in earned.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just finally can we assume that for every dollar of stock price appreciation that adds roughly $7 million of stock comp expense? Is that the right way to look at it? Yes that's about what it's been and what we expect it to be.
There are other factors that could impact it so it's not a perfect correlation but that's why we said -- and it's been about that for the last 2 quarters.
And our last question is going to come from Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling and Partners.
LLC</strong> Bob I got a couple of questions.
First can you talk about provisioning on new notices? And maybe compare the levels that we're looking at today versus precrisis or normalized type of provisioning for normalized incidents.
The 25% roll rate is higher than -- if you go back in history it's higher than history.
LLC</strong> And where would you put history? Probably closer to the 15% range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then as we look at -- using your disclosures from the slide deck and we look at the vintage loss ratio development there seems to be a pretty big delta of performance looking at the '09 versus '010 book.
And I'm not sure if there's a material underwriting difference there or if '09 is getting hit by refinancing activity.
Can you talk a little bit about that delta? And -- I mean because obviously we're looking at single-digit loss ratios on the '10 '11 '12 so far although they're still pretty young.
But '10 versus '09 really stands out.
Yes.
I mean I think -- we have said that '09 looks like it's going to perform as expected.
So that was still a transition in terms of underwriting and things like that but it will perform well.
It will perform as expected.
'10 '11 '12 hopefully '13 are looking significantly better.
So I think the difference there is just how '10 '11 '12 stand out in terms of their performance as opposed '09.
'09 is still going to be kind of as expected when we talk about an expectation of mid-teen or we use -- the more recent ones are going to be better.
Okay.
And then when we think about the '10 and after vintages historically we tended to look at your '03 and '04 as being the kind of peak provision years and then '04 and '05 as the paid.
Do you think the '10 and after books are developing similarly or are they just more elongated and maybe we'll see a complete development more in year '05 or '06? They seem to be better at this point.
So we -- yes we still have peak loss period to get to.
But based on just comparable looking at the comparable periods they're better.
Also Jeff in terms of your comments on the difference in the vintage default performance of the '09 versus later books while as Bob said it's not that '09 is bad '09 is good.
The others are so much better.
Also keep in mind the size of the other books is larger the more recent books.
And I'll hand the call back over to S.A.
Ibrahim.
Thank you operator and thank you all for participating in our call and look forward to seeing you on the next call.
Thanks.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Emily Riley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2012 Form 10-K as well as subsequent quarterly and other reports and registration statements filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
Today I will provide highlights of our third quarter financial results and share my thoughts on the topics and trends important for our company and our industry.
Following my remarks Bob will cover the details of our financial position.
Earlier today we reported a net loss for the third quarter of 2013 of $13 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
This includes minimal fair value and other financial instrument gains and minimal losses on investments.
Results for the quarter also included a $22 million incurred loss initially booked for the Freddie Mac agreement announced in August and approximately $17 million of variable compensation expense directly related to the increase in our stock price during the quarter.
The results for the quarter compared to net income for the quarter ended September 30 2012 of $14 million or $0.11 per diluted share which included combined net losses from change in fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments of $42 million and net gains on investments of $85 million.
Book value per share at September 30 2013 was $5.17.
I am pleased with Radian's improved financial performance this year and the generally positive trends we're seeing in the economy housing market and overall business environment.
Here are a few important highlights from the third quarter.
First we continued to write a high volume of new mortgage insurance business in an extremely attractive market adding to the volume of business we have written after 2008.
This business is projected to be a major driver of future profitability for Radian.
In July we broke a company record writing the largest monthly volume of flow business ever before in Radian's more than 35 year history.
And this quarter's $13.7 billion of new flow business was the company's second highest quarterly volume.
Second this high volume of new business improves the credit profile of our portfolio.
In the third quarter the high-quality books of mortgage insurance business written after 2008 represented 57% of our total portfolio.
If you combine this book with loans that have completed the HARP refinance it represents more than 2/3 of our primary mortgage insurance portfolio.
In addition the most problematic 2006 and '07 books are now down to less than 15% of the total portfolio.
You can see the breakdown on Slide 19 of our webcast presentation.
Third we entered into an agreement with Freddie Mac in August that eliminates our claim exposure on 14 342 loans and helped reduced our total primary delinquent loans by 31% from the third quarter of last year.
Fourth Slide 17 shows that for the first 9 months ended September 30 2013 the primary earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages are positive and far exceeded the comparable negative sum from the 2008 and prior vintages.
In fact the $238 million of premium earned for the 9 months of this year was greater than the $210 million of premium earned in all of last year.
Fifth the MI incurred loss ratio was 76% in the quarter which represents another positive trend which we have seen for the last 3 quarters.
And finally since 2008 we have successfully reduced the exposure in our financial guaranty business by 77% including many of the riskier segments of the portfolio.
Radian maintained strong holding company liquidity of approximately $700 million and Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio was 19.8:1 at September 30 2013.
We continue to expect to maintain a risk-to-capital ratio for Radian Guaranty of 20:1 or below while also preserving the strong level of holding company liquidity.
Bob will provide more detail on our capital contribution in the quarter and future expectations.
The details of the new GSE eligibility capital requirements for MI are still unknown but we continue to hear that they will be issued by year end.
We fully expect to have the ability to comply with the new requirements within the implementation timeframe.
We have written a total of $122 billion of new mortgage insurance business from 2009 through October which we expect to produce attractive returns.
Our primary insurance in force now stands at $159 billion compared with $135 billion a year ago which is an increase of 18%.
This insurance in force growth represents the success we've had at Radian in driving new high-quality mortgage insurance business over the past few years.
We have retained our business from the nation's largest lenders while adding new customers including credit unions community banks and independent mortgage lenders.
In fact 26% of our NIW in 2013 came from customers new to Radian in the last 2 years and the pipeline of prospective customers remains strong.
Yet there are challenges in today's business environment that may impact near-term volume.
While the improvement in the economy have many aspects of our business it also caused interest rates to rise above the record low levels we've seen in the past few years.
And those higher interest rates have recently driven a significant decline in refinance volume a trend we expect to continue into 2014.
It is important to note that this interest -- increase in interest rate is likely to increase our persistency rates which will help us grow our insurance in force.
On average every 1% increase in persistency translates into approximately $1.6 billion of insurance in force remaining on our books each year.
Experts view the future demand for homes and therefore mortgage loans to be strong as the number of U.S.
households owning a home is expected to accelerate.
Much of this growth will be driven by demographic groups including the Hispanic community seeking to fulfill their dream of becoming homeowners.
According to the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies Latinos are expected to contribute 40% of the 17 million new households projected to be formed from 2010 to 2025.
In order to support this growing population of first-time homebuyers Radian entered into a 2-year exclusive partnership last month with the nation's largest industry trade group for this community the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals.
This partnership allows Radian to work directly with the association to provide its membership with information tools and resources to make the right choices for sustainable homeownership.
Turning back to market trends.
The decline in refinance activity combined with the typical effects of seasonality in the fourth quarter will most likely meaningfully reduce total national mortgage origination volume and thus Radian's NIW in the fourth quarter.
While Radian's monthly volume in October remained relatively strong at $3.5 billion industry experts forecast a smaller overall origination market next year.
We also anticipate increased competition in our industry from new and existing MI companies.
These headwinds will be partially offset by growing purchase market where MI penetration is about 3x to 4x greater than for refi loans and with more lenders choosing private MI over FHA.
The positive factors of higher purchase volume and increased share from the FHA is illustrated by our industry's penetration of the insured market of 12% to 13% in the third quarter.
This represents an increase of 40% from the second quarter of this year and an impressive 70% since the third quarter of last year.
We believe that 1/3 to 1/2 of the business that the FHA is writing today meets our credit standards and therefore represents additional new business opportunity in the future.
Turning to the business environment.
Competitors recently reduced their borrowed-paid mortgage insurance premiums by 5 basis points which we promptly matched.
Given the credit quality of today's new business we are comfortable that these premium rates will provide us with attractive returns.
Now I'd like to summarize the progress made against 3 important priorities for Radian: Writing new mortgage insurance business mitigating losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio and reducing our financial guaranty exposure.
First we wrote $13.7 billion of new mortgage insurance business in the third quarter which was the second highest quarterly volume in Radian's history.
Second for the 9 months ended September 30 2013 the primary earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later vintages are positive and far exceed the comparable negative sum from the 2008 and prior vintages as shown on Slide 17.
We are encouraged by this trend.
Next we successfully completed a transaction with Freddie Mac to help reduce the total number of primary delinquent loan by 17% from the second quarter of this year and 31% year-over-year.
The agreement also have reduced the default rate on our primary book in the third quarter to 7.8%.
Finally our financial guaranty business serves as an important source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
We have successfully reduced our financial guaranty exposure from a peak of $115 billion in 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $26 billion in the third quarter of this year.
Over the same period statutory surplus increased from approximately $950 million to $1.2 billion.
In addition to statutory surplus of $1.2 billion as of September 30 2013 Radian Asset had additional claims-paying resources of $380 million including $256 million of contingency reserves.
We stay actively engaged with key policymakers in Washington on the legislation and regulation affecting our industry.
Overall we continue to hear resounding support on Capitol Hill for a healthier balance between the public and private sectors in today's mortgage market which is extremely positive for our industry.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
I'll be providing with our P&amp;L activity and trends for the third quarter 2013 our capital and liquidity positions as of quarter end and some updated expectations regarding 2013 and beyond.
The MI provision for losses was $152 million this quarter compared to $136 million last quarter and $172 million a year ago.
Note that this quarter's incurred loss includes approximately $22 million initially booked in conjunction with the Freddie Mac agreement.
Incurred losses continue to reflect improving delinquency trends and declining claims submission.
Our loss ratio is also benefiting from increasing premiums from our growing book of business.
There were no major assumption changes in our loss reserve estimate this quarter.
One trend that we watch closely is newly submitted claims since this can be an indicator of changes in the economic environment and/or foreclosure and short sale activity.
We've added disclosure on Slide 25 that shows the quarterly trend on newly submitted claims demonstrating that they have been stable or down consistently for the last few years and we expect that trend to continue.
Paid claims for the quarter were impacted by the Freddie Mac agreement.
Our $255 million payment at closing in substance accelerated a set of claims.
While claim submissions on loans contained within the agreement will be processed in the normal course over the next several years we will not pay anything further on them thereby reducing the ongoing run rate of claims paid compared to what would have occurred.
Our revised full year total claims paid estimate is $1.5 billion and we expect 2014 claims to be significantly lower than 2013 but to remain elevated compared to historical levels.
The average claim amount picked up this quarter compared to the second quarter due primarily to a higher average coverage percentage on claims that were paid.
We believe that the average claim amount for the 9 months this year is a reasonable proxy for the future average claim amount although quarter-to-quarter levels tend to bounce around a little.
The Freddie agreement and other proactive efforts have enabled us to reduce our primary pending claims inventory by 30% from 17 625 at year end 2012 to 12 363 as of September 30 2013.
And we anticipate that pending claim inventory will continue to decline.
Our September 30 2013 loss reserve assumes $291 million for future denials and rescissions.
Our IBNR reserve assumes $286 million of future denial and rescission overturn.
These 2 numbers are not specifically related.
One is an estimate of future net denials and rescissions on our delinquent loans and the other is an estimate of future overturns of previous denials and rescissions.
However the net amount of new rescissions and denials in any given period and the amount of overturns are the numbers that you see every month in our default roll-forward.
Single premium business written out for 2008 has continued to perform extremely well in 2013 with loss ratios similar to those for monthly premium business.
As expected single premiums have fallen as a percentage of our new business to 29% in the third quarter and we expect those levels to continue to fall as the purchases start to dominate the mortgage origination market and as QM is implemented.
Although we expect mortgages originated in 2012 and '13 to have a relatively long lives we saw in the 2009 through 2011 vintages that interest rate movement that can cause shifts in prepayment activity are very hard to predict which is the reason we like to write a representative mix of single premium business.
Beginning April 1 we reduced the quota share percentage for new business ceded to our external reinsurance partner from 20% to 5%.
That has helped reduce the amount of ceded premiums written significantly in the second quarter and third quarters.
We are re-evaluating the 5% quota shares ceding percentage go-forward and we expect to make a decision around year end.
In addition we will have the option to recapture a portion of the ceded quota share risk at year end 2014 and 2015.
Minimal fair value gains for the quarter were caused primarily by an improvement in collateral spreads offset by a further tightening of Radian's credit spread.
Slide 8 depicts our current balance sheet fair value positions along with the expected net credit losses or recoveries and fair value exposures.
Based on our projections we expect to add approximately $314 million with just under $2 per share to pretax book value over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $255 million and adding that present value of expected credit loss recovery of $59 million.
During the third quarter operating expenses were impacted by approximately $28 million of long-term incentive compensation expenses.
The comparable expense in the first quarter was $38 million and in the second quarter was approximately $19 million.
This expense is driven primarily by stock price changes which impacts the fair value of this cash-settled awards.
Approximately $17 million of this quarter's expense was the direct result of Radian's stock price increase of $2.31 during the quarter.
The potential volatility in our results associated with stock price changes will be tempered after June 2014 when approximately half of the awards mature and substantially all of such remaining awards mature by June 2015.
The balance of our equity incentive awards are valued at grant date and amortized over their lives in a much more predictable manner.
Our risk-to-capital ratio ended the quarter at 19.8:1.
We had another close to breakeven quarter of statutory results grew our risk in force significantly and made a capital contribution this quarter of $115 million from Radian Group to Radian Guaranty.
The math on this risk to capital this quarter is that we added approximately $2 billion to our net risk in force which at 20:1 requires $100 million in incremental capital to support it.
Our current plan is to manage our risk to capital below 20:1 and we have substantial resources with which to do so.
With expected market contraction due to seasonality and the decline in refinance volumes it is unlikely that we will grow risk in force at the same pace in the fourth quarter but we still expect to grow and we would likely require a capital contribution in the quarter to stay below 20:1.
Current holding company liquidity is approximately $700 million.
We have $55 million of debt maturing in June of 2015 with the balance of our outstanding debt due in 2017 or later.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Once again I'm pleased with Radian's improved financial performance this year and the generally positive trends we are seeing in the economy housing market and overall business environment.
Our success in having written $122 billion of new high-quality MI business from 2009 to October which have improved the composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio and fueled our primary insurance in force growth will drive Radian's future earnings.
Now I'd like to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions].
Our first question will come from Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Can you talk a little bit -- well talk about what you think the return impact is of your recent price cuts? If you can get as specific as possible I'd appreciate it.
And then as we look at the industry moving forward competition seems like it's only going to pick up as you have a couple new entrants come in additionally.
How do we gain confidence in -- if we don't see pricing competition on what does effectively remain kind of a commodity product out there? And just in general how do we get confidence that we don't quickly compete away the returns you've fought so long to recapture.
Jeff with regards to the returns the impact is small.
If you think about 5 basis points on part of the business it's really small.
We're still looking at mid to upper teens ultimate returns on the business at the credit quality that we're currently writing.
And we don't think it impacted significantly.
Yes and Jeff we -- while we can't predict the competitive environment in this future we do know that some of these price cuts short of our short lift so we're hoping that it will be sort of a reasonable way that the industry reacts going forward in terms of preserving reasonable and attractive returns.
And as Bob said the credit quality of the business is very high.
It also is interesting because obviously one of our areas of focus is gaining share back from FHA and S.A.
talked in his remarks about how there's still a significant amount of FHA business that is in our credit box.
And the one I guess silver lining about this price change is that it does increase we believe the competitiveness with FHA.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And somewhat related it's still a small piece but over the last couple of quarters you've seen the mix of new business in the 95 and above area and the 679 and below area increase.
I think the sense has been that there's not much to do there because of the LLPA impact and restriction on really getting a lot done.
But is that an up-and-coming space? Do you see that business continue to ramp up and potentially providing some premium yield to offset the rate cuts on an overall average basis? Yes.
I mean I think that is really a direct result of what we're seeing in terms of the FHA price increases and also a focus on lenders trying to make sure that they're putting borrowers in the best product.
And often that's now in MI -- private MI products instead of FHA.
So I think that's why we've seen that increase at the 95 level with slightly lower FICOs but still very strong FICO scores.
I would expect to see that continue at this point.
Our next question is from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First quick question Bob do you have an estimate on likely capital contribution in 4Q? Not specifically Mark.
But I think I led you to believe that the growth in risk in force is not expected to be the same as it was and then if you look at the math it will be something south of $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Along those lines of the growth in the risk in force are you -- I know you provided kind of your October NIW.
Do you have a sense for how lapse rates are trending? And clearly volumes will be down this quarter just for seasonal reasons and also the refi but I assume lapse is also dropping.
Do you have a sense for kind of how the pace in growth and risk will change with the impact of seasonality and lower refi.
Yes.
I mean there's so many different parts to the equation that's very difficult.
I think that we expect persistency rates to increase.
That's clear.
Will that fully offset the loss in volume from refis going away? Probably unlikely but somewhat offset for sure.
And then you've got the other dynamics of the market size and penetration kind of all offsetting each other.
So I think we expect to grow and continue to grow.
The third quarter was a very strong NIW quarter so the growth in risk in force was really at a high-level this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one other -- around that last question.
How's -- how are persistency rates on the HARP loans comparing to your broader population? I would assume you're seeing even slower class rates or higher persistency on those.
Is that a fair statement? It sounds fair.
We don't have the specific details in front of us but it sounds fair sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay what percentage of your book now is -- or loans that have been HARPed? It's in the 11% to 12% range.
It's about 11% to 12% yes.
Research Division</strong> And then finally could you comment on your Puerto Rico exposure? I think you've for the first time put the number on the size of it in the release.
Can you just talk about kind of what your expectations are around that exposure and what if any reserves you have against it? This is Dave Beidler.
We added the Puerto Rico disclosure as you point out at the website because of the recent market concern around that credit.
We've been closely monitoring it for years because of the economic headwinds that the credit faces.
But having said that the government has taken a lot of positive proactive steps and I think can be differentiated from many of the other headline grabbing public finance credits which have engaged in a lot of saber-rattling and more negative actions from our perspective.
We believe overall that our exposure at approximately 2% of our total exposure is really quite reasonable in any likely scenarios.
And at this point we are projecting losses but we think that our exposure is quite natural.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I assume other than the fact that you're not projecting losses you haven't set aside any reserves against that correct? That's correct.
We'll go next to Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about initially your early-stage assumptions set.
So in your deck 72% of the defaults in the quarter were customers you seem to know already.
You've got a big book of new business relative to the legacy book.
Talking about inflows going down you’re at 22% assumption set on the new book -- on the new defaults rather it appears it moved down into the teens.
When do we think we can see that move with you guys on sort of ongoing basis as we move into '14 and beyond? This is Derek.
I think generally we've been seeing the same trend that competitors pointed out.
We've seen cures increasing.
We've seen our roll to claim rates decreasing over time.
Really at this point I don't think we've seen sufficient trend development to actually warrant making a chain in terms of our overall roll rate.
The other thing I would point out is that the vast majority of our new defaults continue to come from our legacy portfolio.
It'll probably -- approximately 95%.
Obviously that's going to have a higher roll to claim rate.
I think one of the things you'll see is as you see the transition of new defaults to the newer book of business you'd naturally see that roll down over time but I think before we make a change we'll want to see the trend in terms of cures and roll to claim rate develop a little bit further.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the rate side let's see -- Genworth just rolled out 95 to 97 products in the 620 to 680 FICO range and looks like the pricing 148 bps which is a little less than 3x sort of the 90 to 95 pricing.
My question I guess is when you look historically pre-crisis where is pricing and the sort of the higher quality 85 to 95 relative to where it's been historically is it fair to think that even if pricing comes in on the mid [indiscernible] range stuff as credit loosens and mortgage more globally that a move to riskier but being paid for that risk could offset top line from blended revenue? Yes.
I mean I -- Jack I think that's fair.
The historical rates included a lot of lender paid and we're doing much more strict by the card rate which means that our average premium rates are higher overall than they've been in quite some time compared to what they were.
Certainly as we've mentioned before as we do more 95 LTV and we return to more historical norms in terms of 50-50 95s versus 90s the premium rates will go up because of that.
So you will see some offsetting.
And I think at this point even with the decrease in 5 basis points you're going to see premium rates overall that are as high they've been in history.
And I would just add that we also have the implementation of the QM coming up and so that potentially could even make the credit quality slightly even -- slightly more restrictive.
I don't think it's going to be a lot.
But I think it will maybe ebb to the credit's sort of moving away from what we're seeing today.
Our next question is from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Bob I just wanted to make sure I got something correctly.
You said that you expect claims to come down in 2014 versus '13 but still remain high on a historical basis.
Did you say that you expect NIW to be down in 2014 over '13? We didn't -- no we didn't say that.
The reference of the claims was that the $1.5 billion this year and then same net debt.
We expect 2014 will be much less than that.
But if you'll look historically it's still going to be high by historic standards.
So there wasn't any comment about the new insurance rate.
Okay.
And you referenced Radian Asset in the press release.
I was just wondering if you had any conversations with the FHFA and gotten their thoughts about what they think about that capital support.
At this point the FHFA basically have kept its use to itself so we expect to get greater clarity on those views when they come out with them publicly or give us an advance sounding period but at this point we're not aware of what they're thinking exactly.
And I would just add that we've -- as we've said we've done wonderful job managing the risk down in Radian Asset's exposure.
It's much less than it was -- the capital is of a much higher-quality by anyone's measure in terms of its availability and its ultimate access.
And just one more regarding Puerto Rico.
At what point in FG do you establish a reserve? So if you deem it more likely than not that there will be losses or do you have to wait until restructuring or default or what's kind of the test for that? Yes I mean it's going to be driven largely by internal rating process.
So with respect to Puerto Rico in particular what we're going to be looking for to see if it returns to economic growth.
It's been -- essentially in recession since 2007.
So we're going to want to see some underlying growth We're also going to want to see a decrease in the structural budget deficit in Puerto Rico.
As they've referenced they've been making a number -- taking a number of steps to help close that gap.
We just want to see how effective that is.
And then the other thing we're going to watch closely is their ability to continue to fund themselves at an affordable rate.
Now if those trend in a negative direction what that would ultimately lead to is potentially a downgrade below investment grade and it's really -- when it moves into the below investment grade category then we would start setting up reserves.
Our next question comes from Craig Perry with Paning Capital.
My questions have been answered.
Then we'll move on to Con Ryan with Saba Capital.
I just want to quickly touch on what you think it a reasonable range should be for NIW next year? I assume you're just using MBA origination assumptions.
And the second question is have you given any consideration to reporting operating EPS on a go-forward basis? I will have Teresa add more color but basically you know it's difficult and all the industry forecasts have been changing pretty rapidly in terms of next year projections.
So it's a moving target in terms of NIW.
All I'd like to point to is seasonally we do expect to see the purchase activity as it follows historical seasonality patterns to pick up in the second quarter as it normally does.
And it stays elevated in the second and third quarters.
Typically it comes down in the fourth quarter and is low in the first quarter.
Second we see independence of those seasonality factors but hard to predict the timing continued for the gains relative to the FHA -- penetration improved relative to the FHA.
And then most forecast and most people in the industry we talked to have said that we're looking at a couple of years of refis going away driven lower volume but after that they expect the industry to return to higher volumes as stability in the industry continues to take hold.
Teresa? Yes.
I would just add that when we take a look at the overall volume we usually look at MBA along with the Fannie and Freddie estimates to try to get a view from all 3.
I think nothing really much more than that to add to what S.A.
said except we do report on a monthly basis our NIW and we'll continue to do so.
And in terms of operating EPS we have certainly considered it.
I think to this point we have disclosed and been very transparent about the items that we think are either unusual or onetime or had a specific impact during the quarter.
For instance this quarter the Freddie Mac agreement required us to book initially a $22 million incurred loss some of the stock comp and that's what we've done to date but we have certainly considered operating EPS.
And I guess just curious I mean why wouldn't you? Well I think that the obvious answer is this Freddie Mac $22 million initially booked that incurred loss.
So that's -- that couldn't be excluded from operating EPS but it's an item that everyone needs to know why it happened and when it happened.
So definitions are hard and I think that's the reason so far.
Instead we've chosen to disclose the items that we think you need to know about specifically.
Yes I know.
But I guess what I'm saying is you can still be that right? Like I guess what I'm saying is that to the extent that you're trying to focus on what is a clean operating number and then you can make any comments you want about any onetime items.
But just -- I guess I'm just a little confused as to why you wouldn't also include that number.
Okay.
So noted thank you.
That's a good point.
We'll keep that in mind.
Our next question is from Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually on the price cut that you mentioned was that 5 basis points across the board? It was 5 basis points on the borrower-paid monthly premium.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think just conceptually when we think about the price cuts I mean how do you think lenders view it? Is that it's like a price among all the other factors they look at? Just curious how they respond to price cuts relatively small price cuts like that.
Yes.
I think it really does vary depending on the lender and size of lender.
I think what we find is that the smaller institutions particularly or some of the independent mortgage banks and community banks and so forth view that as much more important.
I think some of the larger institutions may not feel it as critical.
But there's sort of a variety of views out there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just can you remind us just the ROEs on the new monthly premium that you're writing assuming your 18:1 risk to capital? Yes mid to upper teen.
We'll go next to Howard Amster with Amster Trading.
Can you give me a sense of how much recapture of the business that you've maybe carried out is potentially brought back in '14 and '15? Yes Howard the -- so we had 2 deals and I think we disclosed the specific amounts in the first -- what we call the first deal.
2/3 of that is eligible to be recaptured at the end of 2014.
And the second deal which is the one that's ongoing 1/2 of that will be eligible to be recaptured at the end of 2015.
It's our option to do that.
Right.
I mean can you just give me a sense of how much risk in force that would mean that you could potentially bring back on both the '14 and '15 numbers? Yes.
The total combined is $2.6 billion.
And I don't know exactly what the breakdown is but the total combined is $2.6 billion so half to 2/3 of that.
Our next question is from Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Bob I wanted to follow on your comments about -- or it might have been Teresa's comments about pricing even though you cut rates premium could end up being at the top levels or even above where we see historically.
So it's the monthly effort it's running maybe on average around 58 bps across the board.
5 basis point cut brings us down to 53.
Do you think that mix shift is going to bring you back up to that 58 monthly average and sustain it? Yes over time certainly it can get close Geoff.
It's going to depend on the mix so it depends how much the 95 -- because those have a significantly higher premium.
But yes directionally yes and perhaps all the way to the levels.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And given the way that the FHFA is cutting the GSE and in particular LLPAs -- and it doesn't seem like the approach is going to change anytime soon.
I mean is that a prospect that can even happen in the next 2 to 3 years? You mean in terms of whether or not they would reduce the LLPAs Geoff? LLC</strong> Yes.
I mean it seems like that's one of the prohibitive items that's really preventing more sub 680 lending.
So I'm trying to get an idea.
To me it seems like we're probably looking at rate pressure here unless that space opens up and you can expand your product base.
It just seems like maybe that the GSE stance might prohibit that.
Well I think that's -- you're absolutely right.
It's very hard to sort of know where that's going to go.
We certainly raised that issue with the FHFA as well as others in Washington.
At the same time you'd continue to see acting Director DeMarco focused on price as a way to try to get sort of private capital back into the market.
So at this juncture I couldn't say that I would expect that to happen.
But there could be changes there and other changes that could precipitate it in the future.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then when you -- obviously we don't have any details when the GSE capital changes.
But have you heard of any discussions about them considering basically sources and uses or kind of claims-paying resources in their capital assessment? To which end obviously your revenue would matter and maybe that could help keep pricing rational going forward.
No.
We've not heard that Jeff.
We've heard more sort of more traditional risk to capital with some variations off of that.
I don't want to tell you that that's not going to happen because we really don't know exactly what it's going to look like but we've not heard that specifically.
We have a follow-up from Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Bob real quick.
Can you just drill down a little bit more on the stock expense timing? I think you said mid '14 and mid '15.
Can you talk through that maybe a little more clarity on the quarterly impact? Yes.
So I think that the rule of thumb that we've had over the -- for this year is that it's been about $7 million specific impact for every dollar increase in stock price.
And that held true the 17 to the $2.31 this quarter.
I think the point that I was making is that these things were -- they were finite and half of the awards will be paid out June by -- by June of 2014.
So essentially half of the volatility then goes away.
And then after June of 2015 there'll be very little if any remaining volatility associated with stock price because the more traditional equity awards are valued at grant date and amortized.
These are unusual for us in that they're cash settled so the accounting is different.
We have a question from Josh Beiderman [ph] with Payroll [ph].
Yes I think you mentioned this earlier.
Can you tell us what the penetration is for purchase and refi originations respectively? I mean refis have been 4% to 5% and purchases have been in the...
18% to 19% 18% to 19%.
That's what we said 4 -- about 4x.
Okay.
So just kind of doing the math on what the MBA is forecasting.
That actually shows that your market share -- or your share origination NIW should be relatively flat next year excluding any gain that the private MI industry gets from the FHA increasing pricing.
Does that foot with what you guys are kind of seeing? It really depends on the variety of factors.
I think you can get there via those calculations.
It's going to really depend on -- the penetration's is going to depend on how much refi falls and continues to fall.
We're certainly looking at the fourth quarter that is going to be significantly lower than the third quarter.
And it's hard to predict next year for the reasons we went into earlier.
All I can say is we have positioned this company to write as much as NIW -- profitable NIW as we can.
And regardless we are better off for having written that huge volume that we've written to date.
And our final question will come from Jackie Earle with Compass.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry if it was already answered.
But I jumped on a little late.
Could you provide any color on the reasons for the price cut and how new entrants have had an impact? That would be great.
Teresa will answer.
Yes.
I mean I think that we saw a couple of competitors in the market start to make this price cuts.
So we just match that.
We haven't seen any impact at this point from new entrants in that regard.
And the last price cut to my knowledge was about 3 years ago.
And it was the same situation there with roughly the same competitors.
The other point that I made earlier that you may not have heard is that one sort of -- one of the benefits here is that the price cut actually makes us a bit more competitive with FHA as we continue to focus on trying to pick up business from the FHA since it's still a significant portion of what they are doing is within our credit box.
Thank you.
And Mr.
Ibrahim please go ahead with any closing remarks.
Again I'd like to thank all of you for participating on our call and look forward to seeing you all on the call next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Radian's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Emily Riley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release includes non-GAAP measures that will be discussed during today's call.
The complete description of these measures and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release Exhibit O and on the Investors section of our website.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2012 Form 10-K as well as subsequent quarterly and other reports and registration statements filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
This morning I will discuss our fourth quarter and full year financial results and review our major accomplishments for 2013.
Following my remarks Bob will cover the details of our financial position.
Achieving MI operating profitability in 2013 particularly after the challenging business environment we've navigated through in the recent years has to be our most important accomplishment last year as Radian moves closer to normalized earnings.
This was the result of both the improvement in the quality and size of our MI insurance in force as well as the significant reductions in our legacy MI exposure.
Let me first address the improvement in both of these areas.
Radian's large high-quality MI portfolio is expected to create a strong foundation for future earnings especially when combined with increasing persistency primarily in business written in 2012 and '13.
We expect improved operating profitability in 2014 driven by the MI premium generated from the high-quality and profitable new business we wrote since 2008.
Today this business represents 71% of our total primary mortgage insurance risk in force or 60% excluding HARP volume.
The combined impact of an improving economy and our continued focus on loss mitigation in our MI portfolio has resulted in year-over-year decline in Radian's total number of primary delinquent loans of 35% as seen on Slide 14 of our webcast presentation with the trend continuing in January 2014.
We also saw a decline in our primary default rate in 2013 as you can see on Slide 21 and we ended the year at a rate of 7.3%.
The performance of our remaining legacy book has also improved significantly which will further contribute to our future results.
Turning to the quarter's results.
Earlier today we reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $36 million or $0.19 per diluted share including $31 million of combined fair value and other financial instrument gains and net losses on investments.
This compares favorably to a net loss for the quarter ended December 31 2012 of $177 million or $1.34 per diluted share.
Book value per share at December 31 2013 was $5.43.
In our press release this morning we introduced new non-GAAP measures that we believe will help you better evaluate Radian's financial performance.
Bob will discuss these measures in more detail and you will find the full description and reconciliations in our press release Exhibit O as well as on our website.
Using these measures adjusted pretax operating income was $9.1 million for the fourth quarter including $1.7 million from the MI segment and adjusted net operating income per diluted share was $0.03.
Now let's turn to a few important highlights from the fourth quarter and the full year 2013.
First in 2013 we continued to write a high volume of new mortgage insurance business in this extremely attractive market.
While the fourth quarter and the beginning of 2014 have been impacted by the decline in refinance activity as well as the effect of a return to more normal seasonal patterns the volume of new business written in the second half of 2013 still was one of the highest in our company's history.
And while it remains difficult to project future NIW we anticipate that Radian will write more than $40 billion of new business in 2014.
I'm also pleased to report that we ended 2013 ranking as the largest mortgage insurance company with $161 billion of insurance in force.
Second this high volume of new business written improved the credit profile of our portfolio.
As I mentioned the high-quality books of mortgage insurance business written after 2008 including loans competing a HARP refinance represented 71% of our primary mortgage insurance portfolio at the end of 2013.
And the most problematic 2006 and '07 books are now down to less than 14% of the total portfolio.
As you can see on Slide 8 the impact of the legacy MI portfolio is shrinking and we expect it to be a less important driver of our future financial results.
Third Slide 9 shows that for the year ended December 31 2013 the earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages of $337 million far exceeded the comparable negative sum from the 2008 and prior vintages.
In fact this amount was nearly equal to the $345 million in 2011 and '12 combined.
It is also important to note that the highest premium level for any vintage is typically earned in its second year.
Therefore we expect our large 2013 book to produce substantial premiums in 2014 and beyond.
Fourth the MI incurred loss ratio was 72% in the quarter representing another positive trend we saw toward 2013.
This compares to a loss ratio of 171% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
And finally we successfully reduced the exposure in our Financial Guaranty business by 29% in 2013 alone and by 79% since 2008 including in many of the riskiest segments of our portfolio.
Radian maintains strong holding company liquidity of approximately $615 million and Radian Guaranty's risk-to-capital ratio was 19.4:1 at December 31 2013.
Bob will provide more detail on our capital contribution in the quarter.
The details of the new GSE eligibility capital requirements for MI are still unknown but we do expect them to be released for comment sometime in the first half of 2014.
Based on our conversations with the FHFA we expect the state regulators to receive the proposed requirements first and be given a 6-week comment period.
The FHFA will then consider any changes the state regulators suggest before releasing the new proposal for public comment.
This comment period will be a minimum of 90 days.
Once finalized we expect there will be an implementation period before the new requirements go into effect.
We fully expect to have the ability to comply with the requirements within the implementation time frame.
As I mentioned earlier primary insurance in force now stands at an industry-leading $161 billion an increase of 15% from a year ago.
This insurance in force growth represents the success we have had at Radian in writing new high-quality mortgage insurance business over the past few years.
This success was the result of our focused effort on attracting new customers across a wider cross-section of the mortgage industry including community banks credit unions regional banks and independent mortgage lenders while also retaining a meaningful share of business from the nation's largest lenders.
According to Inside Mortgage Finance smaller mortgage players held a 60% market share of the U.S.
origination market in 2013 up from 39% in 2009.
This shift in mortgage originations coupled with our targeted new business strategy is what has helped Radian to write a large volume of high-quality new business that is expected to generate attractive returns.
In fact nearly half of our NIW in 2013 came from customers new to Radian beginning in 2009.
We signed on 214 new customers in 2013 including 2 large national lenders in the second half which represents future NIW growth.
We continue to broaden our franchise by adding new lending partners and the pipeline of prospective customers remains strong.
We believe we have the opportunity to further expand our customer base and continue to strengthen our franchise as we estimate that nearly 1/3 of the MI market rests with lenders we don't currently do business with including a few mortgage originators ranked in the top 20.
We have clearly demonstrated our success in bringing on new customers in each of the last few years and are focused on doing it again.
One of the ways we support our customers both new and existing is through our value-added training programs led by Radian mortgage banking experts.
We trained more than 24 000 mortgage professionals last year both in person and online requiring the addition of more resources to support the growing demand for our courses which increased 60% from 2012 to '13.
Leading up to the January 2014 implementation our QM education courses increased so much in popularity that we added new dates and offered on-demand training options.
We worked closely with our lending partners to have their teams develop the necessary skills for today's changing market demands.
Turning to the mortgage market and trends affecting our business it's encouraging that household formations are on the rise again from the lows of 2008 and '09.
Many of these households include those who will not make a 20% down payment on their home and therefore will likely need mortgage insurance.
According to housing experts much of this growth will be driven by minority groups seeking to fulfill their dream of becoming homeowners.
The Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies reports that minorities will constitute 70% of the 17 million new households projected to be formed from 2010 to 2025.
Hispanics alone are expected to represent 40% of this number.
Recently Radian entered into a 2-year exclusive partnership with the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals allowing Radian to work directly with the association membership to provide information tools and resources to make the right choices for sustainable homeownership.
Turning to more general housing trends while interest rates have risen they still remain at historically low levels and national home prices are halfway back to their peak from 2007.
Home price appreciation is important both for our legacy book of business and the negative equity that has plagued many homeowners during the downturn.
It's also an important consideration for future homebuyers who represent our future growth.
As expected the recent rise in interest rates has led to a significant decline in refinance volume which is a trend we believe will continue this year.
While the waning refi volume has impacted our new business volume particularly in the second half of 2013 into January '14 it is important to note that it has also helped increase our persistency rates particularly on our large 2012 and '13 books of business which will help us continue to grow insurance in force.
Every 1% increase in persistency translates into approximately $1.6 billion of insurance in force remaining on our books each year and our persistency was 81.1% at December 31 2013.
While industry experts continue to forecast a smaller overall origination market this year the effect of this reduction on our volumes is projected to be offset by a growing purchase market where MI penetration is about 3 to 4x greater than for refi loans.
This purchase market shift combined with the continued benefit of more lenders choosing private MI over FHA is illustrated by the estimated 12% penetration of the insured market by our industry in the third quarter of 2013 representing a gradual yet steady increase since 2009 and translating into an impressive jump of more than 70% from the third quarter of 2012.
We continue to benefit from FHA actions such as the elimination last year of FHA premium cancellation on most loans and the new FHA loan limits for 2014.
And we believe that 1/3 to 1/2 of the business the FHA is writing today meets our credit standards representing additional new business opportunity in the future.
Turning to the regulation and legislation affecting our industry we continue to actively engage with key policymakers in Washington.
From a regulatory perspective we welcome the appointment of Director Mel Watt to his new position at the FHFA.
We look forward to engaging the FHFA on a number of policy fronts and have already seen some early signs of the new director's focus on affordable homeownership which is positive for our industry.
On the legislative front the debate on GSE reform continues with new builds being discussed by the house along with senate proposals.
A revised senate proposal bearing the input of the administration is expected to be released in the coming weeks.
While we anticipate that there may be delays in action on these builds given the upcoming midterm election season we remain confident that our industry is demonstrating its important role in the future of housing finance.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of the financial position.
Thanks S.A.
I'll be updating you on our P&amp;L activity and trends for the fourth quarter of 2013; our capital and liquidity positions as of year end; and some updated expectations regarding 2014.
We've introduced non-GAAP measures to our disclosures this quarter to more closely align with the way we currently evaluate our business performance.
For our 2 business segments we show adjusted pretax operating income and on a consolidated basis we show adjusted net operating income and adjusted diluted net operating income per share.
The complete description of these measures and the reconciliation to GAAP is presented in Exhibit O of our earnings release which is also posted to our website.
Our calculation essentially eliminates all gains and losses on investments and derivatives which are contained on 4 separate lines in our income statement and adds back the operating components of the fair value line which are our premiums earned on Financial Guaranty derivative contracts and the change in the present value of losses expected to be paid on derivative contracts which is akin to losses incurred.
Please note that our EPS calculation for the fourth quarter includes the dilutive impact of our 2019 convertible debt which adds 37.7 million shares to our share count and adds back $3.5 million of aftertax interest expense to income for EPS calculation purposes.
In subsequent quarters if our stock price exceeds $14.11 there would be potential additional EPS dilution related to our 2017 convertible debt with the estimated calculation as follows: take the new stock price minus $14.11 and multiply the difference by 38.5 million shares.
That is the net value of the premium to be delivered to bondholders less the value of the capped call to Radian.
That net value divided by the new stock price would be the additional shares we would use for fully diluted EPS purposes.
It comes out to a little over 1 million incremental shares for every $0.50 of stock price above $14.11.
In terms of actually settling that convertible debt at maturity the $450 million principal is due in cash and any incremental premium can be settled at our option in cash or stock or a combination.
The MI provision for losses was $144 million this quarter compared to $152 million last quarter and $307 million a year ago.
Lower incurred losses continue to reflect improving delinquency trends that outperformed some of the seasonal expectations this quarter and declining claims submission.
While our roll rate expectations have not changed this year we have seen a steady decline in estimated future denial and rescission rates as our default population has aged.
Included in our fourth quarter incurred losses is approximately $27 million representing a reduction in expected future denials and rescissions.
Our December 31 2013 loss reserve assumes $247 million for future denials and rescissions down from $291 million last quarter and $455 million last year at this time.
While rescissions and denials in 2014 are still expected to remain elevated compared to historic levels they should continue to decline and become an even smaller component of loss reserves in 2015.
Last quarter we added a meaningful new disclosure: submitted claims.
Slide 23 shows the quarterly trend on newly submitted claims demonstrating that they have been down consistently for the past year.
This trend further supports our roll rate estimates and is one that we expect to continue.
Pay claims for the quarter were $283 million and as we disclosed would've been approximately $50 million higher had we not entered into the Freddie Mac agreement.
While claims submissions on loans contained within the agreement will be processed in the normal course over the next several years we will not pay anything further on them thereby reducing the ongoing run rate of claims paid compared to what would have occurred.
We currently expect 2014 claims paid to be between $900 million and $1 billion and to be more heavily weighted in the first half of the year.
Primary pending claims at year end were 10 701 down 39% from 17 625 a year ago and they were down a further 11% in January.
Beginning April 1 2013 we reduced the quota share percentage for new business ceded to our external reinsurance partner from 20% to 5%.
By around April 1 this year we expect to have the ability to eliminate all future NIW ceded in this agreement which would allow us to retain 100% of the profits on new business from that point on.
In addition we will have the option to recapture a portion of the ceded quota share risk at year end 2014 and 2015.
At year end 2013 ceded risk eligible to be recaptured in the future was approximately $1.5 billion.
This consists of 2/3 of the initial quota share transaction and 1/2 of the second transaction.
Obviously some of this risk will run off by the time these options are available to us.
Net fair value gains for the quarter of $38.6 million were caused primarily by an improvement in collateral spreads particularly in CMBS and by rating upgrades in our derivative contracts offset by a further tightening of Radian's credit spread.
Slide 11 depicts our current balance sheet fair value position along with the expected net credit losses or recoveries on fair valued exposures.
Based on our projections we expect to add approximately $280 million or $1.62 per share to pretax book value from these positions over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $212 million and adding the present value of expected credit loss recoveries of $68 million.
During the fourth quarter operating expenses were impacted relatively less by the long-term incentive compensation expenses due to the very small change in our stock price.
This quarter's expense was approximately $12 million compared to $38 million in the first quarter $19 million in the second quarter and $28 million in the third quarter.
As we reported last quarter the potential volatility in our results associated with stock price changes will be tempered after June of 2014 when approximately half of the awards mature and substantially all of such remaining awards mature in June of 2015.
The balance of our equity incentive awards are valued at grant date and amortized over their lives in a much more predictable manner.
While the long-term incentive compensation expenses were down this quarter this reduction was fully offset by additional outside legal and consulting expenses other year-end compensation expenses and IT expenses relating to a major technology project that we have begun.
Our expectation for expenses in 2014 is between 10% and 15% lower than the fourth quarter run rate.
The valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset was just over $1 billion this quarter with approximately $5.91 per share.
We still expect to be able to fully recover this valuation allowance some time in 2015 which is the same time frame that we expect to start admitting the majority of our statutory DTA.
Our risk-to-capital ratio ended the year at 19.4:1.
We grew our net risk in force by $1.2 billion in the quarter as the decline in mortgage volume was offset by an increase in persistency.
Hence we made a capital contribution of $100 million from Radian Group to Radian Guaranty leaving the holding company with approximately $615 million of available liquidity.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Bob.
Let me summarize 3 important takeaways for 2013.
First we achieved operating profitability in our Mortgage Insurance business and expect improved levels of operating profitability in 2014.
Second we wrote 27% more new MI business in 2013 than 2012 and grew insurance in force by 15% to an industry-leading $161 billion.
The future benefits from which will be further enhanced by increased persistency.
In January 2014 we wrote $2.4 billion in NIW.
Third our Financial Guaranty business serves as an important source of capital for Radian Guaranty.
We have successfully reduced our Financial Guaranty exposure from a peak of $115 billion in June 2008 when Radian Asset stopped writing new business to $24 billion at the end of 2013.
Over the same time period statutory surplus increased from approximately $950 million to $1.2 billion.
Radian Asset had additional claims-paying resources of $400 million including $264 million of contingency reserves as of December 31 2013.
As we look ahead to 2014 our top priority is to continue to leverage our ability to expand our franchise and build on our accomplishments of 2013 as well as opportunities for new MI business from the FHA pullback in order to drive Radian's future earnings.
Now I'd like to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I wanted to look first at the claim rate assumptions.
Obviously peers have moved that number down.
Your credit quality continues to get better.
I think 63% of your defaults this quarter were defaulters 3 or more times.
When can we think about that number moving down? Is it a 2014 event? Is it -- any color you can give there will be helpful.
Jack I think we're -- when we see defaults coming from the newer vintages I think our roll rates on those vintages will likely be lower.
The existing defaults are still from the older vintages.
So we really haven't changed our roll rate assumptions in quite some time.
And although we're seeing the same signs that everyone else is in terms of the improvements that really hasn't manifested itself in our roll rates because so many of our delinquencies are still older delinquencies at this point.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking on Page 19 at the denial reinstatement Bob we had spoken I know a few times about sort of the time frame of reinstatements kind of falling off in the back half of '13.
It appears to have fallen off pretty steeply.
Is that a more normal reinstatement percentage now we should think about going forward? You've come down from the 60s to the 40s and now you're sort of at 15%.
I mean how do we think about that percentage going forward? Yes I mean that's really artificial because that's only been outstanding for 1 quarter.
So we would expect 60% or approximately 60% to be the accurate number.
We've seen a number of quarters settle in at that level and we would expect the last 2 quarters on this chart on 19 to eventually be in that same range.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just real quick do you have an indication if the states have yet received the draft proposal from the FHFA? At least as of a couple of weeks ago they had not yet received it.
Our understanding was that they had received kind of an agreement from the FHA regarding I guess the confidentiality around that proposal and they were starting to look at that.
We haven't heard anything.
That's an update from that point.
Next we'll go to the line of Bose George from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just given your comments about the capital that you expect to meet the capital standards within the timeline for compliance is it fair to say a that you're not considering any quota share agreements but also b that with your discussions with FHFA the capital -- the subsidiary capital levels you field will be within the framework that's set out? Bose we really don't know what they'll look like.
I think our statement is strong in terms of our confidence in being able to comply for a variety of reasons.
We have a lot of options available to us if necessary.
We have our holding company cash which is obviously available; the reinsurance market which we've all seen examples of reinsurance transactions done in the MI space to help the capital levels.
That's certainly an option.
The implementation period is a big deal because as we start to earn money and generate internal capital that could go a long way.
We really don't know if there will be a haircut and if there is one what the size will be.
Nonetheless I think in any of the potential scenarios we're confident in our ability to comply.
The other thing to keep in mind Bose is that with our improving business trends there are even more alternatives available to us so it puts us in a stronger position going forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great makes sense.
And then actually just switching to the premium this quarter was there much of a change in the average premium in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter? Not really.
Sometimes the -- if you calculate the quarter's average earned premium rate it could be impacted by things like rescission changes that impact the accrual for premium refunds.
So we've seen certain quarters that premiums earned are much higher because we've taken our rescission rate estimates down.
And this quarter there was a little bit less of that impact.
So I would say look at the earned premium rate over a longer time period.
There was a reduction of 5 basis points which will start bleeding into the results over time but you're not going to see that dramatically in any.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the Financial Guaranty segment you guys took a reserve release.
I was just curious if there's anything we can read into that in terms of what happens there going forward.
This is Derek.
The reserve releases really had to do with several credits where we reduced reserves for instance on Jefferson County.
In light of the settlement we've reduced reserves there.
And then for the most part we didn't see a lot of negative reserve development in the fourth quarter.
Next we'll go to the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So are you seeing any signs that originators are starting to reduce overlays? As they're put back risk abates.
And if so could you discuss any implications for outlook for your business? This is Teresa.
I think we're just starting to see a bit of that.
Lenders are still a bit concerned about that.
And I think also with the advent of the QM a lot of them have been focused on putting those changes in place.
But they would indicate at least initially they haven't seen a big change in the amount of business that they're doing as a result of that.
So I think as people get more comfortable with settling in in terms of the new sort of compliance requirement we may see some more of that but I think it's too early.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Have there been any changes to the business that you're doing with builders which seem to be doing a lot more higher LTV 95%-plus transactions in their sales? I mean we've had some good relationships with builders and their mortgage companies for quite some time.
So I think there's some lift as you can see in the numbers for the building industry.
They're starting to bring on more units and they're expected to bring on more units.
So we think that's going to be a growing segment of the purchase market but we have been very focused on continuing to have strong relationships in that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But have there been any changes to the amount of risk you're willing to take from them or moving up a little bit into the higher LTVs? I mean we're already at the high LTV so I think we don't see that there is a need for that.
And we certainly haven't yet gotten any indication from them that there is a need for that in order to support them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally any updates you can provide on thoughts around risk of any kind of claims from your Puerto Rico exposure? Yes this is Derek.
In terms of risk of claims I mean we've been watching the situation closely.
Generally our view is the risk has been heightened recently and that's been driven more by questions as to their market access and whether they can fund themselves at a reasonable cost.
In terms of the fundamentals on Puerto Rico they seem to be taking the right actions in terms of kind of their fiscal situation.
The question is whether they're going to have enough time to let that play out.
So one of the things we're watching closely is just their ability to fund themselves and what the rates are going to be when they try to fund themselves in the next couple of months.
So again we're watching that closely and we think the risk is marginally increasing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that exposure still in the $450 million range? It is.
It's $452 million as of 12/31.
And next we'll go to the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Bob first I just wanted to clarify your expense guidance.
When you say 10% to 15% improvement off of this quarter what's the starting rate? Are you excluding the performance base comp? No I'm just taking the numbers.
LLC</strong> So if we held that static you're thinking 10% to 15% improvement? Yes.
And of course Geoff we don't contemplate further stock price changes.
So that would be incremental benefit or it could go either way but we don't typically forecast that.
LLC</strong> And then second I appreciate the comments about new business opportunities but this quarter it looks like -- and we don't know the denominator yet but it looks like your share eroded further in the quarter.
Was that mostly just the single premium business coming down or was there any kind of notable shift in your client base that might have helped that number? Yes I think Geoff we think the market shares continue to be strong particularly given the competitive environment and we still have very strong customer relationships.
We saw as we sort of always do some reallocation of share particularly with some customers that we had very high shares with.
But that's also the reason why we continue to do new business development.
So as you heard we brought on 2 top-20 customers actually in the fourth quarter.
And we started seeing NIW related to those relationships in December 214 new customers in 2013 and a lot of significant prospects that we're still working with.
The other thing that is worth noting is that for our new customers we actually see a higher share of -- a higher market share with those new customers.
So we continue to be very positive and optimistic about our ability to continue writing a lot of good of this high profitable business.
Also Geoff this is not the first time we've seen some fluctuations in the customer allocations.
We experienced that I guess about 3 years ago when we -- in that case we actually stopped doing business with 2 of our top-10 customers.
In a couple of quarters with the new business we added in from new customers we replaced that.
And since then one of those customers that we -- had then stopped doing business with us is back doing business with us and I believe we're the #1 partner for that customer.
That's right.
LLC</strong> So when you evaluate the 2 new lenders that came on December do you think that their addition on a full quarter basis offsets the loss of the other national lender reductions in the 4Q? And I think that's difficult to say because obviously a lot of that depends on how much business they write and what allocations we get.
But I think it's that combined with the ramp-up of business for the customers that we brought on which came across the year and the pipeline of customers that we also have.
That's a dynamic thing Geoff.
The biggest thing we have going for us is the ability to keep bringing on new customers.
And you have to remember that customers can change their allocations in the opposite direction in the future.
So we -- at least I continue to feel very positive about the strong franchise position we have achieved.
And I think if anything else that franchise position will get even stronger in time and that will give us the resilience and the strength to deal with fluctuations in allocations as we've already demonstrated.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And last question I appreciate there's a lot of options that you have on the capital front but when you think about your various plans how much waiting do you give kind of an extreme scenario where there's a significant subsidiary haircut and/or a very short implementation period? How do you -- as you approach managing this whole issue how much waiting do you give to kind of an off-the-wall extreme adjustment by the GSEs? I mean I think you have to consider that that could happen Geoff and we have.
Although we believe the implementation period will be reasonable and that's a lot of the feedback we've gotten we don't know for certain.
So I think if it is much sooner and much bigger hit in terms of subsidiary capital or legacy exposure we will have opportunities via reinsurance to deal with that.
Our next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update as to how much risk you expect to run off with the financial guarantor in 2014 and any plans for dividends up to the MI? Financial Guaranty will -- about half of the portfolio I know runs off over the next 4 years approximately.
Over the next year I would say it's probably going to be in excess of 10% that will run off kind of as scheduled next year.
Yes there's a big corporate CDO runoff in 2017.
That's when the majority of that goes but some of it runs off in '14.
We've been paying ordinary dividends consistently from Financial Guaranty and continuing to improve the profile and the capital levels there.
So certainly that's something we will continue.
And access to the capital in Financial Guaranty is very important to us and we're focused on it.
Research Division</strong> And I guess what sort of levels would you look towards -- or what would you -- what would trigger you guys looking for something other than kind of the ordinary course dividend? Well I think if you look at the company by any measure it's probably overcapitalized.
So I think it's a case where the capital today counts for risk-to-capital purposes.
We don't know what GSE eligibility will do to that.
However regardless of what GSE eligibility says access to the capital in Financial Guaranty is very important.
So as I said we're focused on gaining that access as soon as we can.
Our next question comes from the line of Jordon Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
LLC</strong> You said you're going to do $40 billion as the goal in 2014? Yes.
LLC</strong> So I mean it's like $1.1 billion MBA market right? And you said it's 12% MI penetration.
So are you targeting a 30% share this year? Is that back into the numbers the right way? No I think that is about $1.2 billion but we also believe that the penetration is going to go up which has a bigger impact on what the NIW actually is at the end of the day.
And what that means is given the -- if you just eyeball the MBA forecast for the year roughly 20% -- the forecast roughly 20% of the origination for the year will happen in the first quarter and typically January and February.
February given the smaller funding days in a normal purchase market tends to be smaller with business picking up in March but really manifesting itself in the second and third quarters.
So based on that we'd have to do around $8 billion in the first quarter to achieve $40 billion.
Yes and I think what we said was that it would be at least $40 billion.
So we certainly are targeting for more but we believe that based on the numbers that we're seeing that that's reasonable.
LLC</strong> So let me ask the question a different way because who knows where the market's going to be if it's $1 billion or more.
But what type of share are you targeting this year? Are you targeting 30%? Are you targeting the same 25% in the fourth quarter? We don't really target a particular share.
We look more in terms of NIW and what we think the reasonable NIW is based on the customers that we have what we think the penetration levels in the market size are going to be and that's how we came to that number that we were comfortable sharing.
Right.
And in order -- Jordon in order to get to that number we don't need to gain share to get that.
LLC</strong> That's actually what I'm trying to get.
Do you need to gain share to get to that number? No.
No.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then what percent of the industry if it was 12% last year do you think will be this year that has MI? We think that that's going to increase and probably by a few percentage points.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just update us on your thoughts of capital contributions down to Radian Guaranty from the parent.
I think last quarter you'd expected to do $200 million over the next 12 months and you're already at $100 million of that.
Yes I mean it really -- it's going to depend on the GSE eligibility and what that does.
In order to stable a 20:1 which has been the level that we've been targeting we're thinking probably another $50 million to -- between $50 million and $100 million over the next year.
But if it's 18:1 or some other level obviously that would be incremental capital necessary.
We'll go to the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
A question about the competitive environment.
Yes the forecasts for purchase mortgage origination are up year-over-year but they seem to be coming down every time they're revised.
And with new entrants coming on board I guess investors want some kind of confidence that we won't see continued rate cuts.
And I was just wondering what your position is on that.
Well in terms of pricing we believe that actions taken in the market recently demonstrate that rate cuts do not translate into permanent market share and while -- therefore they are not the best way to gain market share.
So if however given the new competitive environment somebody initiates those as we will think carefully about how we want to respond it is a competitive market but we believe since it has proven to be an instrument that doesn't work there'll be less incentive for anybody to use it.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up to Puerto Rico S&amp;P downgraded the GOs to junk last night and I think S&amp;P quantified for other financial guarantors with the capital charge would be when that happens.
Do have a number? Not a capital charge number.
I mean the downgrade was pretty well anticipated by often I think the market but I don't have any S&amp;P capital charge number at hand.
And we will take our final question from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I just had a follow-up on -- was there any reallocation in the investment portfolio? It looked like your -- at least your MI yield might have jumped sequentially.
I'm curious if you've changed the duration or any asset allocation? Not materially Geoff.
We always sort of reposition in small ways but there's nothing that jumps out.
And with that I'd like to turn it back over to Mr.
Ibrahim for any final comments.
I'd like to thank all the participants on this call.
And again as we said earlier we're looking forward to this year in continuing to build on our momentum and strength.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Radian's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Emily Riley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued yesterday and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release includes a non-GAAP financial measure that will be discussed during today's call.
The complete description of this measure and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found on press release Exhibit E and on the Investors section of our website.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2013 Form 10-K our first quarter 10-Q and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
Today I'm excited to share our results for the first quarter of 2014.
along with the strategic announcement of our plans to acquire Clayton Holdings a leading provider of outsourced solutions to the mortgage industry.
Next Bob will cover the financial details of our first quarter performance and the Clayton acquisition.
Finally I'll summarize a few key points before opening the call to your questions.
Before we discuss our outstanding financial results and our exciting acquisition announcement let me first remind you that our vision at Radian has been twofold: To lead our company out of the downturn by writing strong volumes of extremely profitable mortgage insurance business and to position Radian for future growth and success by expanding and broadening our customer base and strengthening our franchise with the addition of complementary products and services.
Radian strives to be a leader in providing the mortgage industry with mortgage insurance and other products that offer secondary market access as well as services that enables success in originating underwriting servicing and securitizing mortgage loans.
You've heard me talk about our top priorities of writing new high-quality mortgage insurance business and effectively reducing our legacy mortgage insurance and Financial Guaranty risk.
We've had outstanding success in both of these areas creating a strong foundation for future earnings at Radian.
Now we are taking a step that will help us build on our success by adding a diversified fee-based revenue business that leverages and complements our existing strength at Radian as we position ourselves for the next phase in the evolution of the U.S.
housing finance markets.
This acquisition will not distract or compromise our focus on our MI business.
Clayton is an attractive and well-managed business with a strong reputation and management team.
In the future we expect to leverage the synergies between our 2 industry-leading businesses which will be a competitive advantage for Radian in the market and another way that we differentiate ourselves from our mortgage insurance competitors.
There are 4 key points to note.
First as many of you know Clayton provides due diligence surveillance compliance and outsourcing solutions to the full spectrum of mortgage industry participants including investors and issuers of mortgage-backed securities.
This will help us enhance our own due diligence surveillance and underwriting capabilities.
Clayton has a highly regarded management team including CEO Paul Bossidy and President and COO Joe D’Urso who have built a market leading franchise in each of the mortgage services areas where they participate.
The team will focus on serving their clients and growing their business reporting to me as a separate business line.
Second the Clayton acquisition will provide Radian with multiple revenue streams broadening our participation in the residential mortgage market value chain with services that complement our MI business.
Clayton is a way for us to participate in the recovery of the nascent private label RMBS market.
The non-agency market which at its peak comprised $725 billion in securitization volume is currently only a fraction at about $30 billion.
We think there are strong catalysts in place for the reemergence of this market as banks will try to release capital pressures and engage in securitizations backed by strong investor demand.
We expect this to both expand our franchise and deepen our customer relationships.
Third both current and proposed mortgage reform are creating new compliance operational and reporting challenges for mortgage originators and services.
We believe the combined capabilities of Radian and Clayton in areas such as training due diligence to assess underwriting and compliance and servicing surveillance will create products and services to help mortgage market participants including our mortgage insurance customers better address these new mortgage market challenges.
And in turn Radian can add value to Clayton's franchise by cross-selling their services to Radian's large customer base.
One clear example will be Clayton's compliance services which are expected to be of interest to a broad base of regional bank customers.
Finally we expect Clayton as a subsidiary of Radian Group that is separate from our insurance entities to provide unregulated cash flow to our holding company.
Given these factors we believe this acquisition both diversifies as well as strengthens our company with manageable risk and attractive revenue opportunities.
And importantly as we execute our growth and diversification strategy it will be at a time when Radian Guaranty is positioned to generate meaningful earnings from its existing book.
Turning now to the financial results.
Radian was profitable on a GAAP and operating basis in the first quarter.
Yesterday we reported net income for the first quarter of 2014 of $203 million or $0.94 per diluted share.
This compares favorably to a net loss for the first quarter of last year of $188 million or a $1.30 per diluted share.
Book value per share at March 31 2014 was $6.10.
Adjusted pretax operating income was $91 million for the first quarter.
Now let's turn to a few important highlights from the quarter.
First the quality and size of our mortgage insurance in force continues to improve.
While the first quarter NIW look was impacted by the declining refinance activity the return to a more normal seasonal pattern and a slower-than-expected pickup in home purchases we wrote nearly $7 billion of new MI business in the quarter.
Importantly we grew our in force book which is the driver of future earnings.
We continue to focus on our proven strategy of adding new customers and our pipeline remains strong.
30% of our NIW in the first quarter came from customers new to Radian since 2011 and 54 customers began submitting business to us in the first quarter alone.
New business volume increased to $2.84 billion in April along with increases in open commitments that indicate even higher NIW volume in May.
While it's remains difficult to project future NIW based on revised mortgage origination projections from the MBA and other sources we now expect that our new business volume this year will be modestly lower than $40 billion.
We continue to report NIW on a monthly basis and we remain encouraged by the favorable long-term outlook for the mortgage origination volume.
While market size and new business volumes are obviously top of mind for our company it is important to note that we again led our industry in the first quarter as the largest mortgage insurance company with $162 billion of insurance in force.
Our ability to grow our insurance in force is paramount and every 1% increase in persistency translated into approximately $1.6 billion of insurance in force remaining on our books each year.
Radian's persistency which is the amount of business that remains on our books over a 12-month period reached 82.3% in the first quarter compared to 80.9% in the first quarter of 2013.
We expect that persistency could increase to the mid-80s by the end of the year.
Second our continued success in writing new business improved the credit profile of our portfolio.
The high-quality books of mortgage insurance business written after 2008 including loans completing a HARP refinance represented 73% of our primary mortgage insurance portfolio as of March 31 2014.
And the most problematic 2006 and '07 books are now down to less than 13% of the total portfolio as you can see on Slide 9.
The impact of the legacy MI portfolio shrinking and we expect it to be a less important driver of our future financial results.
Third Slide 10 shows that for the quarter ended March 31 2014 the earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages of $109 million provides us with a strong start for the year.
This compares with $78 million for the first quarter ended March 31 2013.
And it's also noteworthy that for the first time on this chart the 2008 and prior vintages are positive by $45 million.
It's also important again to note that the highest premium level for any vintage is typically earned in its second year therefore we expect our large 2013 book to produce substantial premiums in 2014 and beyond.
Fourth our total number of primary delinquent loans dropped by 38% year-over-year as seen on Slide 21 of our webcast presentation with the trend continuing in April 2014.
Radian's default count of 50 994 loans as of April end is now less than half the default count of 103 027 loans we reported at the end of the first quarter of 2012.
Our primary default rate have been declining steadily since its peak in 2009 as you can see on Slide 22.
And we ended the quarter at a rate of 6.3% compared to our peak default rate of 18%.
The MI incurred loss ratio was 25% in the quarter representing another positive trend we saw throughout 2013.
This compares to a loss ratio of 72% in the first quarter of 2013.
And finally our success in reducing the exposure in our Financial Guaranty business continues with the reduction now at 80% since 2008 including in many of the riskier segments of our portfolio.
As we proactively reduce our Financial Guaranty book of business which decreased to $23 billion in the quarter the credit performance remains stable.
Radian maintains strong holding company liquidity of approximately $615 million and Radian Guaranty's risk to capital ratio improved to 19.2:1 at March 31 2014.
If we were to downstream say $500 million of that $615 million as of March 31 2014 to Radian Guaranty it would reduce our risk to capital to 14:1.
The details of the new GSE eligibility capital requirements for the MI are still unknown but we do expect that they could be released for comments shortly or as early as the second quarter of this year.
Once finalized we expect there will be an implementation period before the new requirements go into effect.
We fully expect to have the ability to comply with these requirements within the implementation timeframe.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
I will be covering our P&amp;L activity and trends for the first quarter of 2013 our capital and liquidity positions as of quarter end some updated expectations regarding the balance of 2014 and some initial observations about the financial implications of the Clayton acquisition.
We introduced non-GAAP measures last quarter to more closely align with the way we evaluate our business performance.
And beginning this quarter for segment reporting we will only be showing adjusted pretax operating income or loss.
In addition to GAAP net income or loss and diluted net income or loss per share for consolidated purposes we will be showing total adjusted pretax operating income or loss.
A reconciliation of these consolidated numbers is presented in Exhibit E.
In order to compute diluted operating income per share for as long as we have a valuation allowance our tax rate is expected to be negligible.
If and when the VA fully reverses we would expect a tax rate close to the 35% statutory rate.
Our EPS calculation for the first quarter includes both the dilutive impact of our 2019 convertible debt which adds 37.7 million shares to our share count and add back $5.5 million of interest expense to income for EPS calculation purposes.
And additional EPS dilution this quarter related to our 2017 convertible debt of approximately 9 million shares.
A table of our fully diluted share count is presented on Exhibit B.
The MI provision for losses was $49 million this quarter compared to $144 million last quarter and $132 million a year ago.
Lower incurred losses continue to reflect improving trends as new primary default totals were 18% better than the first quarter of last year and cure rates have increased.
The reduction of new defaults in April was 18.5% year-over-year.
Many other important trends that we follow such as claims submitted which you can see on Slide 24 continued to show improvements during the quarter.
You can see on our incurred loss breakdown on Slide 14 that there was positive loss development on the existing default line.
This positive development included reduced severity assumptions on pool insurance defaults significant actual severity benefits from claims paid being lower than the amounts reserved for and higher cure rates.
While we're very pleased by the incurred loss results during the first quarter which is usually the best from a seasonal standpoint we would not expect similar levels of positive loss development in future quarters unless trends continue to improve faster than expected.
Paid claims for the quarter were $307 million and as disclosed would have been approximately $50 million higher had we not entered into the Freddie Mac Agreement in August of last year.
We continue to expect 2014 claims paid to be between $900 million and $1 billion and to be more heavily weighted in the first half of the year.
Primary pending claims at March 31 2014 were 7 969 down 26% from 10 701 last quarter as we continue to efficiently work through our pending claim inventory.
Our average claim paid was also down this quarter due to a lower average loan balance on claims that were paid and also due to curtailment.
Financial Guaranty loss performance has continued to be stable.
In light of the substantial reduction in par exposure and FG along with the strong capital and claims paying resources we have gone to the New York State Department of Financial Services and requested approval for an extraordinary dividend to be paid to Radian Guaranty which is Radian Asset's parent company.
We have not yet received a formal response from New York and we cannot provide assurance if and when such an extraordinary dividend will be approved.
Net fair value gain on derivatives for the quarter of $50 million were caused mainly by improvement in collateral spreads primarily relating to our TruPs CDO exposure.
Slide 12 depicts our current balance sheet fair value position along with the expected net credit losses or recoveries from fair valued exposures.
Based on our projections we expect to add approximately $233 million or a $1.35 per share to pretax book value from these positions over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $165 million and adding the present value of expected credit loss recoveries of $68 million.
During the first quarter operating expenses were impacted modestly by long-term incentive compensation expenses which included the impact of a stock price change from $14.12 at year-end 2013 to $15.03 at March 31 2014.
This quarter's expense was approximately $14 million compared to $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 and $38 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The potential volatility in our results associated with stock price changes will be tempered after June of 2014 when approximately half the awards mature and substantially all such remaining awards mature in June of 2015.
All other expenses during the quarter are generally in line with our expectations.
The valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset was $936.5 million this quarter or approximately $5.41 per share reduced from year-end due primarily to our pretax income of $202.5 million this quarter.
We still expect to be able to fully recover our valuation allowance by sometime in 2015 which is the same timeframe that we expect to reverse the remainder of our statutory valuation allowances and to start admitting the majority of our statutory DTA.
The admission of our stat DTA will be limited to the lesser of a percentage of surplus likely between 10% and 15% or the amount of estimated DTAs that may be realized within a 1- to 3-year period.
Therefore while we expect to realize the full surplus benefit of our NOLs for statutory purposes that is expected to occur over the course of a few years.
We'll be updating our valuation allowance analysis each quarter and it is possible that positive developments could accelerate our current expected timeframe.
We're pleased by the pending Clayton acquisition and our future ability to upstream positive cash flow directly to the holding company.
While the significant upside opportunities from the acquisition depend on many things including the growth of the private securitization market Clayton is already a strong and successful company on a standalone basis.
Any cost synergy or revenue opportunity realization will only improve the financial outlook.
Initially the transaction is expected to be about breakeven from an accretion-dilution standpoint and even better than that when measured based on net income excluding the non-cash amortization of intangible assets.
That amortization will be based on evaluation of the Clayton business at closing which will create an amortizable intangible asset as well as creating goodwill which will not be amortized for GAAP purposes only reviewed periodically for impairment.
We will likely show the future results of Clayton in a new Radian business segment.
As we reported the acquisition of Clayton will be funded to the issuance of a combination of debt and equity which will also be used to call and redeem the remaining 2015 debt of $54.5 million.
Therefore none of our remaining debt will mature before 2017.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thanks Bob.
Once again we are pleased to share with you our outstanding financial results for the first quarter and our exciting announcement of our acquisition of Clayton.
Now operator We'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of line of Bose George with KBW.
This is actually Chas Dyson [ph] in for Bose.
First question is just around Clayton.
I wanted to get you guys thoughts on a high level on the timing of the acquisition.
Why now? And what are you guys seeing in the private label RMBS market that causes you to think this is the right time for this acquisition? And then just kind of a follow-on to that you guys mentioned the $135 million in revenues for 2013 do you guys have a breakout in terms of how levered that is to private label RMBS versus the REO-type services? So I'll take the first part of that.
So looking at why Clayton and why now strategically Radian is -- if you look at the strategic premise for this Radian is in the mortgage risk business.
And the mortgage industry participants typically deal with 4 types of risk: Interest rate and prepayment is one area; credit risk is the other area; operational risk which deals with manufacturing and servicing defects is the third area; and the fourth is regulatory compliance risk.
We currently operate in the credit risk area and that too within the GSE footprint and that too within the 80% and higher LTV portion of the GSE footprint.
So Clayton provides services that primarily focus on the operational risk with manufacturing and servicing defects and the regulatory compliance risks.
Everything we've been hearing from the industry and our customers is those operational risks and regulatory and compliance risks are becoming more and more important as the industry tries to focus on producing as close to 0 defect loans as possible.
And in that process we have been to some extent on our own helping our customers with training.
We believe that the Clayton acquisition will allow us to offer them other solutions to meet those needs.
As you know many players in the industry got burnt by loans that were not serviced properly so that we on our own have started looking at how do we get on top of how loans are being serviced and we found that some of our customers were interested in accessing that service that capability and Clayton provides us that.
So I'll let Teresa expand on that a little bit more before getting to Bob on the second part of your question.
So Clayton really has 4 areas of their business.
The first one that I think a lot of people are familiar is the due diligence business and that's being used in the past to support -- and currently to support the RMBS market.
But in addition over the last few years it's also been expanded to focus on QC regulatory compliance and so there has been demand in those areas.
The second area is the servicing surveillance business that S.A just mentioned and Clayton has sort of pipes if you will to 60 servicers that they get data from on a monthly basis and it allows them to monitor the performance of those books of business and also to look at individual loans to get feedback on what needs to happen with those loans.
And there's been increased focus on that in part because of the concerns related to servicing that we all know about but also as more servicers have also used sub-servicers.
It's been an opportunity to help them understand what's going on with their sub-servicers.
The third area is Green River Capital which has really 2 parts to their business.
One is really giving services related to REO management and to short sale management.
The other part which is the interesting part of the business is giving services to investors in REO-to-rental or buy-to-rental markets.
And those are a number of different services that they do which help those investors finance those properties on warehouse lines or prepare those properties to be securitized.
So that's been -- and they've been a leader in really all of these areas.
And the last area is their European business.
They have a company called Euro Risk.
Its the leading provider of outsourcing services including due diligence in the U.K.
and Europe.
And that's the primary market for that business.
And just quickly on the revenues they're pretty well divided among the businesses.
Less than 30% of revenue was the due diligence revenue in 2013 and that's on such a small base of private securitization.
So there's a lot upside there clearly.
And to answer that question -- the other part of the question which is why Clayton? Why now? We believe Clayton is the strongest player in its industry with the largest share the strongest reputation highly respected by rating agencies GSEs and investors and those kind of opportunities with a strong management team don’t come about all the time.
And one of the things we've done at Radian is we've constantly focused on managing our existing business but also in positioning us for the future in terms of growth and profitability and for the next phase of the market.
We did that at the onset of the financial downturn by being the first to place an emphasis on expanding our sales force and growing our business even while being challenged with our legacy business and it has paid off.
So this is again positioning ourselves for what we believe is the next opportunity in the future of the housing finance system in an area where we have already started doing things to a small extent on our own.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you guys talked about contributions from Clayton to the holding company in terms of cash.
Do you have a cash flow metric for 2013 for Clayton? We -- well we gave you some numbers.
We gave the net income which was $9.1 million and then the non-cash expense of amortization.
So if you add those 2 up there is a little bit of other stuff in there but that's a good measure.
Okay.
And then one last one.
It looked like to us that the premium margin might have ticked down a little bit in the first quarter.
Do you guys have any color there around why that might have happened in terms of the product mix or anything else? No premiums really -- the margins really haven't changed and the premiums really haven't changed.
You're -- what you're seeing from quarter-to-quarter sometimes is a rescission of refund accrual either it's up or down and that sometimes looks like the margins have changed but that's not really the case.
The next question is from the line of Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering how we could expect the severities to move over the next year there's quite strong improvement.
In the first quarter I think you had mentioned some of that was because of just your lower loan balances.
Just curious on how much of an impact that was versus just lower losses on the actual loans? I mean it's really a combination I think what we've seen is that the pay claims are being more dispersed.
The past several years they were coming from maybe some of the higher-cost areas.
So just the loan balances are lower and I think we saw that effect as well.
We've continued to curtail loans.
So I think it's really a combination of those.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean could we expect it to improve it at a similar rate over the rest of the year? I wouldn't expect -- I would expect a continuation I would not expect a continued improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the OpEx.
It looks like it came down a bit this past quarter I guess some of that might have been due to just the actual benefit plans.
But how could we could see that trend developing over the rest of the year? I think this is a pretty good run rate this quarter.
We've got -- we'll always call out this variable comp item.
And as we said midway through this year the effect of stock price changes gets mitigated.
And then as of -- about this time next year that will kind of go away.
But I think other than that you're seeing a fair run rate on our expense level.
The next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bob can you talk about whether this unregulated cash flow that you'll get from Clayton will now allow you to manage cash at the holdco more aggressively particularly after you've kind of pushed out your next maturity to 2017? Yes.
I would say so Mark we're -- it creates flexibility for us.
So Clayton doesn't need very much working capital to be running their business.
So positive cash flows can come to the holding company and give us flexibility.
Certainly the money that is at holdco today is there to support the operating company and we plan to use it for that purpose.
But yes more flexibility and options absolutely that's part of the benefit of the acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And along those lines I mean I appreciate S.A.'s comment earlier that if you pushed down $500 million that it gets you to 14:1.
But given that flexibility and the kind of relatively low cash burn you know how at the holding company and the unregulated cash flow I mean could you realistically push most of that cash down? And also I guess the incremental $50-or-so million you'll be raising over and above what you need to buy Clayton and retire the 2015 maturity? And if so kind of -- I'm sorry if so kind of where could that actually take you are you closer to 12:1 or something like that? Yes.
I mean it's certainly conceivable.
Well we would always have a level of cash at holdco that we would acquire and that would be subject to our management decision.
But again the flexibility is there.
And yes if we downstream $550 million or $600 million it gets incrementally better than the numbers that S.A.
put out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then are there any assumptions you can share with us around revenue or expense synergies you're looking for from the acquisition? I mean as far as expense synergies we really haven't built very much in.
We think we'll have some opportunity over time but they will be modest from an expense standpoint.
And then with respect to revenues we think there's an opportunity given the services that Clayton provides to market those services in a cross-sell way using our sales force.
And so we've been thinking about how do we package those services so that our sales force can introduce them.
And we think that's upside to the transaction.
And remember over the last few years we expanded our customer base quite significantly.
And we have customers in addition to large banks we've got medium-sized banks independent mortgage companies of all sizes community banks credit unions.
And they all have to deal with some of these compliance challenges and they may all participate in some way in selling loans to investors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- I'm sorry if I missed this.
Did you talk about what's your customer overlap and how much of an opportunity there is to cross-sell to your existing customer base to people they may have not reached out to? Yes.
Our customer base is significantly larger than their customer base.
So there is a large portion of our customer base that we would be able to cross-sell their services to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one last question.
Any thoughts on where your loss ratio can get to when we just think about kind of the quality of the recent books whether it would be normalized or kind of a below normalized level in the next several years? That's because current level is pretty good.
No look I think we've said on a consistent basis the book of business would end up with a loss ratio in that sort of 35% range give or take.
If you're growing your business and you've got a lot of business that's young you can see overall loss ratios lower than 30% into the 20s.
But this quarter was a very very good quarter from a loss ratio standpoint and we would sign up for it for sure.
The next question is from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
If we look at Slide 14 an the components of the loss provision and you mentioned the $27.8 million of favorable development is that net of any bad guys last week when Genworth reported they said that they modestly increased reserve factors to reflect higher severity expectations for late-stage delinquencies? Yes.
That number is always going to be net and there are a number of things in there.
So yes there are some things in there that go the other way.
We called out -- I called out kind of the 3 main reasons that's negative this quarter but we haven't made any changes to our roll rate assumptions for quite some time and we didn't this quarter.
So there was nothing like that was incorporated.
Okay.
But would it be fair to say that you are feeling incrementally better about late stage delinquencies now? As delinquencies decline as claims submitted continue to decrease we absolutely feel better.
There is still uncertainty but we feel better.
Okay.
Great.
And then I don't know if you had called out the amounts of the extraordinary dividend that you're asking the New York DFS for? No.
This is Dave Beidler.
We are not going to disclose that while it's still pending with the department.
But one way to sort of get a general perspective on it is that our ordinary dividend this year would have been within the range of $30 million approximately and you can assume that this request materially in excess of that.
Okay.
Well can you frame what you think the excess capital you have at Radian Asset is? We think Radian Asset is substantially overcapitalized given the reduction in risk that we've executed over the last 4 or 5 years.
Maybe you can put a number on it? No.
The next question is from the line of Douglas Harter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if -- help us with the thoughts around the growth potential for Clayton whether it's what 2014 revenues were or sort of a quarterly breakdown just to see where they are relative to 2013 full year? The opportunities are really sort of within the different business lines depending on -- the good example is the private securitization market which could grow the due diligence side of the business.
There are other opportunities in other parts of the business so we're not really timing that projections per se but we gave the '13 revenues and then cited a number of ways to have upside and to grow that over time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I mean is that -- I mean I guess the securitization market is clearly a longer-term opportunity.
I guess when you see the opportunities is there a balance between near-term opportunities and kind of longer term? I guess how do you -- or are they all sort of the longer term like the securitization market? No.
I think there is certainly diligence and surveillance opportunities that are more near term and that they've been building on those opportunities over the last few years.
I think the securitization market will grow a lot more slowly.
But having said that we think that the requirements with respect to the diligence that has to be done for those pools of loans will be -- and what we've seen recently is that they've been much more extensive where a much larger number of loans have -- whether it's 100% or something just less than that have to be reviewed in order for a deal to go forward.
So we think that the securitization market doesn't have to get back to the levels that it has been before in order for Clayton to benefit.
And then the recent increases in revenues have come a lot from the rent-to-own [ph] securitization market which we think has some legs left in it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if you can give us any color on sort of what applications for May new insurance is looking like? What type of pickup you're seeing relative to April? I think we're just seeing that it's growing and we've seen the commitments for our insurance continue to grow since the early part of the year.
The next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> A few questions here.
Bob I wanted to follow-up on your comments on the expense line first.
If you back out see the commission and the performance comp it looks like your core expense is down from $53 million to $40 million this quarter.
I think last quarter you indicated maybe a mid-40s number was more appropriate.
So just to be clear is the $40 million a good run rate or should we still be gravitating into that $45 million level on a core basis? I think you're right in that range Geoff.
I think this quarter is a fair run rate but sometimes we have quarters where they might be a little bit higher.
So I would look at that range and say that's a fair run rate.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then kind of jumping on expenses from a Clayton perspective.
Under the new master policies there was going to be it sounds like a fair amount of incremental underwriting if lenders opted into the 12-month rescission program.
How much money does this save you maybe on a go-forward basis having Clayton in house for those underwriting needs? Is it something material to the expense line or is it something that was probably more of a rounding error? I wouldn't call it a savings so to speak because obviously we will have kind of at arm's length transaction between the insurance company and in Clayton.
But it certainly is an opportunity to keep those revenues within Radian Group.
And so as a result as we see a need to increase the amount of services that we're using or even to transition some of what we're doing now to them we'll see that benefit sort of within the full holding company.
So Geoff that would be characterized as taking what is today a Radian expense pure expense and turning it into a revenue for Clayton and earnings which potentially could get the benefit of paid in multiples.
LLC</strong> Is that -- I guess qualified is that a material expense over time or is that more of a rounding error on your expense base? I think it's really hard for us to be able to determine that at this point.
I don’t think its material Geoff.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
Bob another question on the stat DTA.
Why are you or Pennsylvania are waiting for 15% when -- we assume other peers get 10% 15% admittance already.
Is there anything different or is it just your approach or PA's approach versus other states? No it's not.
We're doing it exactly the way that we are prescribed.
So it's really the GAAP analysis that drives then the stat recovery.
So you've got to have the GAAP analysis done first.
We haven't gone to Pennsylvania to request anything in advance of that and we don't plan to at this point.
So that's -- sort of the time schedule that we gave.
Now we have gotten some stat DTAs back in some of the smaller subs within Radian.
But Radian Guaranty where most of it exists is going to pretty much follow the timeline I set forth.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then last question for NIW.
In December.
you noted you had fallen out of -- or fallen lower in certain rotations but you had a couple of new lenders coming on.
Can you talk about the development this quarter? Pros and cons versus what you're expecting.
And how you think maybe the market share delta should trend from here? Yes.
I mean I think that what we've seen is that we've continued to do well with customers.
We've seen a little bit of risk to allocation but we've also seen new customers coming on and NIW coming in from those new customers.
And there continues to be a significant pipeline of potential new customers to bring on.
We think that we are serving about 70% of the mortgage lenders that are out there so we think there is some considerable opportunity at this point with respect to that.
We think that most of the impact in what we saw in the first quarter had to do with the size of the market.
And so when you look at kind of the reforecast from the MBA and the GSEs they really had the largest impact on what we wrote.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And any update on the timeline of the new 2 big customers coming on that you mentioned this summer? Well I think they -- the 2 customers that we referred to at that time we are now doing business with.
LLC</strong> All right.
So they are fully on and running? Well I'm not -- I think those 2 are and there are other customers that we are working with that may be coming on over the course of -- there is another customer that we are working on that would be coming on over the course of this year that's not up and running yet.
The next question is from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just the only remaining question I have is it looked like there was a big pickup in 12-month-plus cures I think it went from 4% to 7% quarter-over-quarter.
Could you just talk about what's driving that? Is that home price recovery ability to sale or if some were just cured for other reasons? No.
Yes -- okay...
We haven't seen a big pickup in terms of cures on the 12-month buckets.
We've seen more substantial pickup in cure rates quite frankly on the 3 or fewer missed payment bucket in the 4 to 11 is where we've seen the most substantial pickup.
For the most part the 12-month bucket in terms of roll to claim rates and cure rates have been somewhat stable over the year.
Okay.
And then you mentioned that you hadn't changed any of your assumptions as far as delinquency declaim rates for the buckets.
At what point as we move to the cycle do you change for that for the early stage to be more towards traditional levels? I think generally the development we're seeing on the early stage is consistent with what others have recognized in the industry.
I would say over time in terms of kind of the newly delinquent loans I think we could maybe see a rate -- a cure rate of ultimately 85%.
We're continuing to watch the development.
And there's been some seasonal effects here in the first quarter so I think throughout this year we'll continue to watch it.
And based upon data make an adjustment potentially on -- further on in the year.
The next question is from the line of Jordan Hymowitz from Philadelphia Financial.
LLC</strong> Could we get the numbers -- this used to be a public company if I remember right.
Can we get the net income the past couple of years or is there going to be a filing with that on it? As we start to disclose numbers we'll have to do comparisons.
So you'll see a lot more over time.
LLC</strong> Is it possible we can just get the net income the past couple of years as opposed to just the general breakeven? That's all we've given.
All we -- so far all we've given is what you see and we'll -- when we do more it'll be done in a public way.
LLC</strong> And second does Clayton at all compete against the LPS's of the world at this point? And given the conflict -- potential conflicts of interest with some of the Auckland companies is that a potential business channel you could get? When we've review with Clayton who they're main competitors are and it varies depending on the line of business that you're talking about neither of those have come up as really significant competitors with respect to the services that they offer.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And last question is with the couple or more players entering the market have you seen any market share shifts in anyway? I know the numbers are up slowly so we can slightly compete the market share but have you seen any shift? We did see some shift in the market share kind of from the third quarter of last year until now.
That's one of the reasons why we continue to be very focused on bringing on new customers.
LLC</strong> And do you have an estimate of what your share was in the quarter I mean we can start to estimate it but do you have your estimate at this point? I think our share maybe down a little bit.
And then once we get reliable numbers with so many new players it is harder to get the market share numbers that we used to get more easily in the past.
And -- but we believe it's down a little bit from where it was but still we are very happy with what it is.
The next question is from the line of the Rick Sherman with Oppenheimer.
My question is about your legacy business Radian Asset Assurance.
Over the many years basically it upstreamed some dividends up to the holding company to help support it.
Hypothetically if you're a retail municipal bond owner that has a bond that's insured by you how should they think about it in terms of if hypothetically you had a tremendous amount of defaults or whatever would the holding company subsequently come back the other way and support that company to honor those bonds or not? Radian Asset has more than enough capital to pay its claims and we are quite confident of that.
Okay.
But I'm just saying if there was an outlier is there anything that would -- since it's in -- is the capital requirements of the company because it isn't writing any more business and its basically in runoff are those capital requirements much lower than a company that is still is in business like Assured Guaranty or something in terms of statutory capital and maintenance capital? The statutory capital requirements are exactly the same and -- from a rating agency perspective the capital requirements are the same.
They're based on exposure rather than whether your writing business or not.
Correct.
Okay.
But are you not willing to say that if the -- if you had a black swan event in that segment that overwhelmed the current -- the fact that you are properly capitalized but it required more additional cash would cash flow back? Since cash has always seemed to go up to the holding company would it ever go the other way if necessary to honor those commitments? There are no guarantees from the holding company upon the obligations of writing an asset.
The next question is from the line of Seth Glasser with Decade Capital.
I wanted to ask I guess drill into a little detail around the statutory DTA.
Is that number still around $500 million? It's in that range yes.
The NOLs are $1.8 billion so sounds like you're in that range.
Okay.
And so I mean based on the stat accounting rules once you've reached a minimum level of capital where you can start readmitting DTAs it looks like you'd be able to readmit around $200 million in 2015 and another $200 million plus in '16 am I thinking about that right? The first one is right.
I think then it's a continuous relooking at the surplus that you're going to be between 10% and 15% of surplus depending on your risk to capital level.
So it's a formula but I don't know that the second year would be that much because that's going to depend on how fast your surplus is growing.
Right.
So -- but I mean it would grow by $200 million-ish in '15 just due to the readmittance of the DTA.
So then I would think in '16 you'd actually have an even higher number that you'll be able to let back in.
But I guess it depends on some other things as well.
Yes.
If you're talking about an incremental $200 million I think that sounds high.
But there'll be something incremental.
That we do expect.
Okay.
So I mean basically right in the middle of this likely phase-in period for whatever the new FHFA rules are I mean you'll be adding another $200 million to stat capital just based on -- at some point during '15 just based on the DTA issue.
And then over the next say 2 to 3 years you'll be adding about the same dollar amount to stat capital as the $500 million cash downstream that you were discussing earlier.
Is that -- I mean that's basically what's going to happen right? Yes.
Directionally certainly we expect to add -- based on projections we expect to add to our stat surplus via admission of stat DTAs.
Right.
Okay.
And so if you took today's risk in force and you assumed the full readmittance of the full DTA amount including that $500 million cash downstream that actually would take your leverage to well under 10x.
I mean it would be probably something like 8x or 9x right? Sounds right.
The next question is from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Looking at Clayton from a return on capital perspective and the numbers that you provided just sort of back of the envelope-ing it looks like it's a return on capital a little bit lower than the traditional MI business yet Bob you talked about Clayton being a capital light or not as capital-intensive business implying maybe your turns are a little bit better.
How should I think about return on capital relative to sort of legacy MIs? I mean I think you have to look at this business on a little bit different basis than we look at our MI business which is sort of pure return on allocated capital.
We're looking at the cash flow it can provide to the holdco.
We're looking at some of the expenses being non-cash expenses.
But we think the returns sort of by any measure are fair and can improve over time and certainly present a really good complement to the MI business historically.
And I think even today businesses like this are valued differently than financial services businesses that have a lot of capital requirements.
And this business does not hold credit risk unlike Radian Mortgage Insurance.
So typically these businesses if you look at the industry are measured more on EBITDA and then they trade at a multiple of EBITDA.
So it's a very -- its apples-to-oranges comparison.
Quite frankly I've been envious at the kind of multiples those businesses get.
Research Division</strong> And also lastly on Clayton at least.
Do you acknowledge -- are any of your MI competitors current customers of Clayton.
And then if so are there any implementation issues there? It's a very small amount of their revenues are generated from the MI industry.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then -- well lastly S.A.
you mentioned persistency and how that perhaps trending towards mid-80s.
Just via normal amortization of the loan back down to 78% LTV how good can persistency get? I mean where do we sort of cap off at that number? Well as we said mid-80s.
I don’t know Bob if you've got the historical high-water mark for persistency? Yes.
I mean I think mid-80s is fair Steve and that's why we've said it.
There's a lot of other factors besides just interest rates playing into it but I think that's what we're seeing.
Yes.
The interesting thing though is having written a leading share of the business over the last 4 years that persistency benefits us in a meaningful way.
The next question is from the line of Jim Fowler with Harvest Capital.
You've provided some of the detail but I wanted to ask a couple of questions on the revenue mix at Clayton.
You said that less than 30% was due diligence I'd be interested to know if you would provide the Green River percentage? But more specifically is the large portion of the revenue related to the servicing surveillance and what percentage of that is contractual in the waterfall of the deals that they are surveilling? And approximately how much longer in average are those deals expected to remain outstanding? Yes.
So its about 1/3 of the revenues are Green River and about 1/3 -- in 2013 were the surveillance.
And in terms of the surveillance revenues that are coming directly from the waterfall its a smaller amount.
It's kind of a shrinking amount.
A lot of the surveillance is coming from other kinds of projects like sub-servicer reviews and compliance kinds of things so we're confident that that is an area that we'll continue to be strong.
So if the servicing transfer activity isn't as robust looking forward as it has been and if the REO rental isn't as robust as it has been is this still a breakeven opportunity or are you thinking that those 2 segments will sort of recover from some of the overhang that they've had recently specifically in the servicing segment? Yes.
I think what we've done is we've built the accretion dilution statement on the '14 projections which are fairly visible at this time based on the fact that we're halfway through the year.
Certainly some of the -- they do so many things and they've got so many different ways to generate revenue.
Some of them may falloff over time but then there are opportunities to grow some of the others.
We think that the REO-to-rental is a good one for the next few years and maybe for many years.
So we're pretty confident that the revenues that are generated will hold up and grow over time as we seek this opportunities.
And the servicing surveillance business is not just depend on servicing transfers.
Yes.
I mean I think there's a lot of focus now when you think about regulatory compliance situation where people are really very focused on how the servicing is performing and in terms of their own compliance issues.
And I think we'll continue to see sub-servicing being done in the marketplace as well.
So there's a lot of opportunity there.
And our final question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Comparing Slide 15 for this quarter to Slide 15 from last quarter and looking at the net claim rate numbers I mean obviously the pending number came in and drove some of the number.
But I guess what we've been looking for and I think there's some gas in the tank on the sort of early stage that's still at 22%.
And I know some others have brought the number in a bit on their assumptions.
What does it take for you guys to see that number come down and as it flows to the loss -- incurred number? Yes.
I think its just watching continued developments.
And as I had indicated earlier the developments we've been seeing on their early-stage delinquencies have been positive.
They've been trending particularly positive I would say since the second half of 2013.
You had some seasonal effect in the first quarter I think which made that development even more favorable.
So I think we'll continue to watch it to see if it holds up in the second and third quarter and make a determination based upon the data at that point in time.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is there a noticeable vintage breakdown sort of the 3 600 plus claims I mean is there a vintage breakdown in that number that's noteworthy? Well I mean generally in terms of vintage it's still the case that the default inventory is predominately from the legacy portfolio.
And that's in terms of claims paid reserves and incremental defaults are still predominately coming from that.
I think as you see a shift in the portfolio of defaulted loans to newer vintages that will also have an effect in terms of probably driving down that roll rate over time.
But I don't think there has been a substantial enough movement for that in and of itself to cause a change in the roll rate at this point in time.
Which is a good thing because the newer vintages are performing well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
And then the New York State request I mean is there any handicapping on timing of a potential announcement on that? We hope that its soon but it's completely within the department's discretion.
Well with that I'd like to thank everybody for participating on our call and talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Radian's second quarter 2014 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) I'll now turn the conference over to Emily Riley Senior Vice President Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's second quarter 2014 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier today and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release includes a non-GAAP measure.
A complete description of this measure and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release Exhibit E and on the Investors section of our website.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
I am pleased to share with you today the results of our second quarter which includes solid financial performance and strong credit trends for our mortgage insurance business as well as the successful closing of our Clayton acquisition.
The primary driver of our profitability is the steadily increasing positive impact of our large and profitable MI book of business written after 2008 combined with the ongoing improvement in credit performance of our legacy MI book.
Following my comments Bob will cover the details of our financial position and then I'll summarize a few key points before opening the call to your questions.
Radian was profitable on a GAAP and operating basis in the second quarter with net income of $175 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
This compares favorably to a net loss for the second quarter of last year of $33 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
Book value per share at June 30 2014 was $8.29.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income was $74 million for the second quarter.
Now I'd like to review several highlights from the quarter.
First and importantly we continued to grow and improve our high quality mortgage insurance in force which is the driver of future earnings.
We wrote more than $9 billion of new MI business in the second quarter an increase of more than a-third from the first quarter of this year.
The trend continued in July with NIW of $3.9 billion representing the fifth consecutive month of new business growth.
This new business growth is representative of the stronger home lending trends seen in the second quarter after hitting a 14 year low in the first quarter of this year.
While overall mortgage origination volume is lower today than for the year ago business has shifted from mainly refinance to purchase.
Given that purchase transactions are more likely to use mortgage insurance than refis this is a positive trend for our business.
At Radian our sales team continues to succeed in attracting new business as we signed 59 new customers [Technical Difficulty].
To support this new business growth we hired four new account managers in 2014 including one dedicated solely to enhancing Radian's commitment to the Hispanic community which is expected to be one of the fastest growing demographic groups for home ownership in America.
In July we entered into another exclusive partnership with the National Association of Real Estate Brokers an organization focused on equal housing opportunities for African-American and other minority groups.
The goal is to help the 93-chapter network better understand the value of private mortgage insurance.
We also continued to pursue cost effective ways to support our small-to-mid size lending partners including through our enhanced sales team.
This team which assist customers with consultative services by telephone help bring on nearly half of the new customers Radian signed in 2014.
While market size and new business volume remains top of mind our ability to grow our mortgage insurance in force is most important.
Radian's persistency which is the amount of business that remains on our books over a 12-month period reached 83.1% in the second quarter compared to 80.3% in the second quarter of 2013.
Our insurance in force grew 9% from the second quarter of last year and we once again led our industry as the largest mortgage insurance company with $165 billion of insurance in force.
Second our continued success in writing new business improves the credit profile of our portfolio.
As you can see on Slide 9 the high-quality books of mortgage insurance business written after 2008 including loans completing a-half refinance represented 76% of our primary mortgage insurance portfolio as of June 30 2014.
This again is one of the key drivers of our future financial results.
And the legacy book continues to shrink with the most problematic 2006 and 2007 books now down to less than 12% of the total portfolio.
As our legacy portfolio shrinks and improves an important indicator of its resiliency is the fact that approximately 70% of our performing loans from 2005 to 2008 have never been delinquent.
Third Slide 10 shows that for the six months ended June 30 2014 the earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages were $227 million.
This illustrate the steadily increasing positive impact of our business mix and represents impressive increases from the $148 million for the first six months in 2013 and $96 million for the same period in 2012.
It is also noteworthy to mention that the 2008 and prior vintages are now positive by $69 million.
Fourth our total number of primary delinquent loans dropped by 38% year-over-year as seen on Slide 21 of our webcast presentation with the trends continuing in July.
Our primary default count decreased to 48 904 loans and our primary default rate which has been declining steadily since its 2009 peak fell to 5.8%.
This is the lowest rate we've seen since 2007.
In addition the MI incurred loss ratio was 32% in the quarter representing another positive trend.
This compares to a loss ratio of 69% in the second quarter of 2013.
Fifth we completed our acquisition of Clayton a leading provider of outsourced mortgage and real estate solutions in the second quarter.
This adds a diversified source of fee-based revenue for Radian and also broadens our participation in the residential mortgage market value chain with services that complement our MI business.
We plan to leverage the synergies between our two industry-leading businesses providing a competitive advantage for Radian and another way to differentiate ourselves from our mortgage insurance peers.
In the third quarter results of operations for Clayton will be included in our financial results and we will further address the company's progress and business strategy.
We are now looking at opportunities that build on the combined capabilities of Radian and Clayton and in July we invested $20 million to capitalize a newly formed wholly-owned Radian Group insurance subsidiary to offer complementary mortgage insurance-related products to industry participants.
These products are in the developmental stage today but we look forward to providing updates on our progress in the coming quarters.
Sixth as you know the FHFA released the draft Private Mortgage Insurer Eligibility Requirements or PMIERs last month for public comment.
These PMIERs were developed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and are intended to provide revised requirements for private MI companies to be eligible insurers of loans purchased by Fannie and Freddie.
The public comment period ends on September 8 and we expect to provide meaningful input on the proposed rules.
We believe that other private MIs the state insurance departments the mortgage and real estate community and various housing and consumer groups will also provide comment on the rules.
Bob will cover this topic in more detail during his remarks.
But what is most important to remember is that we and other MI companies have an extended transition period of more than two years to comply with the financial requirements and we expect to have the ability to fully comply before the transition period ends without a need to raise external capital.
Finally our success in reducing the exposure in our financial guaranty business continues with the reduction now at 82% since 2008 including in many of the riskier segments of the portfolio.
While there is risk remaining in our financial guaranty book of business the credit performance has been generally stable and we continue to proactively reduce our total exposure which decreased to $20 billion in the quarter.
And as we reported last month after receiving approval from the New York Department of Financial Services Radian Asset paid an extraordinary dividend to Radian Guarantee of $150 million in July.
We expect to request an additional extraordinary dividend next year.
As we discussed in our call last month we believe the Radian Asset is a solid overcapitalized company with strong economic value.
We are actively working to monetize or otherwise utilize Radian Asset in a way that will maximize its value consistent with PMIERs.
Radian maintains strong holding company liquidity of approximately $770 million and Radian Guaranty's risk to capital ratio improved to 18.7:1 at June 30 2014.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thanks S.A.
I'll be covering our P&amp;L activity and trends for the second quarter of 2014 our capital and liquidity positions as of quarter end and some updated expectations regarding the balance of 2014.
We introduced non-GAAP measures in the fourth quarter of 2013 to more closely align with the way we evaluate our business performance.
And last quarter we started showing adjusted pre-tax operating income or loss for segment reporting.
Because the Clayton acquisition closed on June 30 only our balance sheet for the second quarter was impacted.
Next quarter our P&amp;L will include a third business segment Mortgage and Real Estate Services which will contain the results of Clayton.
This quarter we included selected historical Clayton financial results from continuing operations in Exhibit N which display some important business trends including strong second quarter 2014 revenues which we expect to continue at similar levels in the second half of the year.
On our June 30 balance sheet which is Exhibit C approximately $295 million of goodwill and other intangible assets represents our Clayton investment.
The balance of the $312 million purchase price consist of working capital.
The $295 million is broken up into $192 million of goodwill and $103 million of identified intangibles.
Any amortization of these intangibles will be excluded in our adjusted pre-tax operating income metric.
Goodwill will be reviewed periodically for impairment otherwise it will remain as is on the GAAP balance sheet but is deductible over 15 years for tax purposes.
Our EPS calculation for the second quarter includes both the dilutive impact of our 2019 convertible debt which adds 37.7 million shares to our share count and adds back $5.5 million of interest expense to income for EPS calculation purposes; and additional EPS dilution relating to our 2017 convertible debt of approximately 7.6 million shares.
A table of our fully diluted share count is presented in Exhibit B.
The MI provision for losses was $64 million this quarter compared to $49 million last quarter and $136 million a year ago.
Lower incurred losses continue to reflect improving default trends as new primary default totals were 22% better than second quarter of last year and cure rates have remained fairly high.
Many other important trends that we follow such as claims submitted and that you can see on Slide 24 showed improvements during the quarter.
Favorable reserve development on the existing default items line in Slide 14 continues to occur because paid claims were less than the amounts reserved for such claims primarily due to curtailments.
Similar to last quarter this favorable movement was only partially offset by default composition changes.
Paid claims for the quarter increased to $240 million and as we disclosed would have been approximately $35 million higher had we not entered into the Freddie Mac agreement a year ago.
We've nearly completed the process of clearing out the backlog of pending claims as primary pending claims as of June 30 2014 were 6 533 down 18% from 7 969 as of March 31.
We still expect full year 2014 claims paid to be between $900 million and $1 billion.
Losses in the financial guaranty segment have continued to be modest.
In light of the recent developments in Puerto Rico including the passage of the Debt Enforcement and Recovery Act which impacts public corporations in the Commonwealth this quarter we increased our GAAP loss reserves on our Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority or PREPA exposure by $4.6 million to $4.7 million representing 21% of our $22.3 million of combined direct and assumed exposure.
We also increased our reserves on our $93 million of senior and subordinate transportation bonds of Puerto Rico by $6.5 million to $7.1 million based on the possibility that the Commonwealth may restructure this debt or use part of the revenue supporting these bonds to further support their GO debt.
Our remaining $331 million of Puerto Rico exposure for which we have not established a reserve include $79 million of highway authority bond which are better secured than the transportation exposure we reserve for and $233 million of GO and appropriation debt.
The additional reserves booked in the financial guaranty segment this quarter was partially offset by favorable reserve development in both public financed and structured finance reinsurance.
Net fair value gains on derivatives for the quarter of $57 million were caused mainly by an improvement in collateral spreads and rating upgrades.
Slide 12 depicts our current balance sheet fair value position along with expected net credit losses or recoveries on fair valued exposures.
Based on our projections we expect to add a $157.8 million or $0.83 per share to pre-tax book value from these positions over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $99.1 million and adding the present value of the expected credit loss recoveries of $58.7 million.
Please note on Slide 12 and Exhibit D that there is an increase in the present value of net credit losses incurred this quarter of approximately $11 million in the financial guaranty segment.
This increase which does not impact our P&amp;L only the adjusted pre-tax operating loss is primarily due to a deterioration in our internal view of a $377 million second-to-pay CLO financial guaranty we have talked about in the past.
We will only be required to pay if there was a realized loss on the deal and if MBIA Insurance Corp who is a principal insurer fails to pay.
In order to manage our risk we purchased a $100 million of default protection on MBIA Insurance Corp that serves as a meaningful hedge against any potential loss to Radian on the transaction and which is factored into our probability weighted loss estimated.
During the second quarter operating expenses were impacted very modestly by long-term incentive compensation expenses.
The variability of this expense relating to stock prices performance will be reduced for the next year due to the recent payout of about half of the cash settled award and the variability will be substantially eliminated at this time next year when most of the remaining awards are settled.
Other operating expenses this quarter also includes $6.7 million of the acquisition expenses relating to the Clayton purchase.
We have excluded these acquisition expenses in our measure of adjusted pre-tax operating income.
The valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset was $886 million this quarter or approximately $4.64 per share reduced from yearend primarily due to our pre-tax income in the first and second quarters.
As we make money we utilize our DTA and reduce the valuation allowance.
We still expect to be able to fully recover our valuation allowance by some time in 2015.
While this is also the timeframe to begin admitting the majority of DTA for statutory purposes keep in mind that admitted DTA is not an available asset under the proposed PMIERs.
As we said on our PMIERs investor call we expect to realize much of the DTA over the next two-and-a-half years due to earnings over that time period.
With regard to PMIERs our first priority is to provide the GSEs and the FHFA with a meaningful set of comments in several areas by September 8.
Two primary examples are the owners' requirements for the 2005 to 2008 vintage loans that have made every payment since they were originated many years ago including through the downturn.
And the exclusion of unearned premium reserves and the available asset calculation despite the fact that they are liquid and readily available to pay claims.
Secondly we are actively evaluating opportunities to transform the economic value of Radian Asset in a manner that is consistent with the PMIERs framework and are also exploring various mortgage insurance reinsurance possibilities.
Relative returns on our business are clearly lower under the proposed rules especially for loans with 95 LTVs and higher and FICO scores below 740.
However we believe the current business mix and the current economic environment produces an overall expected unlevered return on our business in the mid-teens as the rules are currently proposed.
Absent pricing increases any meaningful mix shift in our business towards higher LTVs and lower average FICO scores would undoubtedly impact these returns in the future.
Mostly importantly we remain confident that Radian will meet the financial requirements of the final PMIERs before the two year transition period is over without the need to raise external capital.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thanks Bob.
Once again we are pleased to share with you our solid financial performance in the second quarter and the successful closing of our Clayton acquisition.
We believe that there is continued growth and opportunity ahead for us in our mortgage insurance business and we are fully focused on it while also positioning Radian to leverage our risk management expertise as well as our new industry-leading mortgage and real estate services for the next phase in the evolution of the U.S.
housing finance markets.
It's important to note that as we face the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead we do so with the benefit of the growing positive impact from our large profitable post-downturn MI book continued credit improvement in our legacy MI book a strongly capitalized financial guaranty business and greater strategic opportunities from the Clayton acquisition.
Now operator we'd like to open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Jack Micenko with SIG.
Wondering out of the gate if you could sort of expand on the new insurance subsidiary and strategy a bit more? What kind of related mortgage insurance products are you targeting? Having achieved profitability having acquired a lot of new customers in our mortgage insurance business and having closed on the Clayton transaction we believe we are well-positioned now to explore new opportunities within the space we understand which is in our area of core expertise which is the mortgage business.
And in that slide as we look at some of these opportunities and we believe there are several available to us we simply capitalize the subsidiary in order to get it licensed.
I'd like to differ talking about any specifics on the products at this stage because we've got a lot of opportunities available to us and that is a good thing and we will give you more details as we continue to make progress.
And then I guess earlier this week Padilla down in Puerto Rico moved the San Juan subway out of the Highway Transportation Authority given that it was losing about $50 million a year on that I think a $350 million debt service.
It seems like it's a good news development given your exposure.
I guess if my numbers are right am I thinking about this the right way.
Was this development in your reserve methodology? Just some thoughts around that development? This is Derek.
That's factored in.
We do view that as a positive development that being said and we made a distinction this quarter as Bob pointed out in terms of our exposure to Highway and Transportation Authority possibly in the highway bonds and the transportation bonds.
The view being that the highway bonds have generally a stronger security structure.
Obviously getting rid of that negative drag is a positive for all the credits.
We still think that overall the Commonwealth has signaled pretty clearly that they're going to protect their own ability to payback their bonds and potentially at the expense or at least from their perspective stop subsidizing the public corporations.
As a result we think that creates risk for all of our public corporations exposure.
That being said that's certainly a positive development.
And then looking at the public corporations certainly PREPA stands out as the one the one that's most materially out-risk and we have around $22 million of exposure to that.
And then just real quick last question.
You really get July results I guess the growth in NIW was surprising.
It seems maybe like the spring season maybe got pushed out a month or two.
Just curious your observations on the new business volumes side coming in a little bit better than June.
And then obviously credit trends really get to carry default well above sort of prior July numbers any specifics there? I know month-to-month numbers can move around a bit on the credit side but just some thoughts on July? From a credit perspective it's been a trend we've been seeing in terms of cure rates so if you look on a year-over-year basis cure rates have been trending up and so July I think is really just a continuation of that trend that we've been seeing.
And Teresa will comment on that.
And with respect to NIW I mean you're right I mean it was just sort of slower first quarter.
And we continue to see as we were sort of in the middle of that quarter the commits go up and then the NIW in the following months go up.
So we've been very pleased with the amount of NIW we would have ride over the quarter and how that's continuing to trend.
Our next question will come from Bose George with KBW.
Actually just first a question on the increasing book value.
I was just trying to bridge the increase so I think part was the capital rates part was earnings.
With there some also change in the financial guaranty liability? A little bit Bose but no I mean that's reflected in the earnings so it's going to be the earnings and it's going to be the essentially the Clayton book value which we raised capital during the quarter.
Some of that was debt but some was equity which is going to increase our book value.
And then just switching to the financial guaranty business in Europe plans there.
If you're able to get substantial dividends out of that is that preferable to selling all or part of that business? We want to maximize the economic value.
So obviously dividends were great because that brings the liquidity to the MI company but in terms of the options we have available to us that's one and the remaining others but the object is clear to maximize the value and we think it's there.
We think it's a very strong over capitalized company and we're going to do what we can to maximize value.
And then actually just one last one on the FHA.
They started the HAWK program recently with their offering discounts to borrowers who take counseling.
I mean do you think that all have much traction in terms of loans that could be in the MI market or is it really a different cohort of borrowers? I mean we have taken a look at that and we don't think that that's going to have much of an impact on the business that we see.
If you take a look even at the pricing benefits that those borrowers get it sort of poses the gap a little bit.
But there is still an advantage in terms of getting conventional with private MI.
So we just don't think that there is going to be much of an impact there.
Our next question is from Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Just on the actions you might take to mitigate the proposed requirements would you anticipate doing anything prior to the final rules being issued? It's possible Eric.
I mean I think we want to wait and see what the final rules say.
And I think most of our actions will be based on that.
But there are certain things that could be done beforehand that would be positive sort of regardless of the outcome.
So I would say it's possible although we're certainly going to wait until the final rules are out before we take some of the action.
And then just on as per financial guaranty the present value of net credit losses.
I guess could you just walk through I guess what the future P&amp;L impact looks like and how that ultimately comes in? I mean most of what's sitting there is this recovery that we expect to get down the road.
So that's why the number is it's a present value recovery.
There is a little bit of expected losses which would be cash losses that we expect and we talked a little bit about the one transaction that was impacted this quarter.
But on a net basis it's a recovery so we expect cash to come back over time.
Now this goes through the P&amp;L in the fair value line so that's why we -- if there is ever a change to that line that's meaningful in terms of losses or recoveries we would talk about it like we did this quarter on the one transaction.
In terms of the one transaction would you need to set aside provisions for that or you're just going to treat that with the hedges and derivatives? I mean it's going to go through the fair value line any of the P&amp;L.
But the hedge we bought was really to mitigate any potential loss.
And so we feel like we're well-positioned as a second-to-pay with that hedge in place.
And next we have Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Looking at the disclosure you provided in Exhibit N around Clayton.
So should we assume that second quarter run rate gross profit on services is something that we can kind of pencil in for operating earnings above and beyond what you report in MI and FG? I think if you look back and we gave you several quarters to look at you can see the gross profit moves within a band.
So I think that's fair.
Now I wouldn't look necessarily at one specific quarter but you have a range of where the gross profit is.
And often it's going to be related to the size of the revenues.
Now what we did say is that Q2 is a strong revenue quarter and we do expect the rest of the year to be similar to Q2.
You can also see that the revenues can jump around because this business unlike the MI business which is based on the in force this is business based on assignments.
And some times things are going to come in more sporadically in terms of revenue either a securitization or a contract with a counterparty or a customer.
So I think you're going to see some levels of jumping around in terms of the revenues and the gross profit being within this band but not exactly what it was in second quarter necessarily.
And can I just ask about the rationale from excluding amortization of intangibles from operating earnings? I mean in my mind that's something that should be included.
I mean that's fine.
You can evaluate it the way you would like.
The rules that we follow are really that we would have a non-GAAP measure when we the management are evaluating the business in certain way and that's the way we would evaluate the business based on the operating performance.
And we view that amortization of intangibles is not something that we're going to evaluate the business based on.
Obviously it's a part of the P&amp;L.
And that's I think the way companies like that are typically evaluated when they standalone.
So is this kind of like EBITDA this gross profit? It's akin to that.
Obviously it's not exactly that.
But if you think in those terms that's kind of the way a service kind of company would be evaluated and it will be the way that management will be evaluating the operating performance of Clayton.
And can you disclose maybe the assumed loss severity in PREPA that's baked into your current reserves? In terms of PREPA looking at that we use a probability weighted analysis.
Generally the range we're looking at in terms of losses is between 10% and 35%.
Just one last question.
Is there any concerted effort between you and your competitors in the U.S.
mortgage insurance organization to I guess present the united front during the comment period with PMIERs? Well I think there is certainly a common view on many of the issues that we'll be commenting on in the PMIERs.
And we've also had a number of calls and we will have some additional calls with the GSEs and the FHFA to discuss certain topics that we commonly sort of have concerns with.
But do you find yourself in agreement with some of your newer competitors or do you feel that they're working against your interest? I think that we find that some of the newer competitors also are concerned about some of the same issues.
But I think certainly those of us who have legacy business who have a historical view and data around some of these issues I think have a more of a view on what the impact might be going forward.
And a lot of what we will be commenting on is related to whether or not the historical data and experience support was presented or proposed in those requirements.
We now have a question from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
With your loss ratio already now at more normalized levels and your legacy books still showing credit improvement where do you think the loss ratio can end up? I mean it's conceivable that it comes down from here.
Certainly we're adding really really high quality business and the recently written vintages look like they're going to have a better than expected really superlative loss ratios attached to them.
So conceivably the loss ratios can go down into the 20s.
What's the lowest loss ratio you've had historically? Going back it was probably in the 30s but it was probably not a book of business that contained high quality that this one does.
So it's not really a totally fair comparison.
And then of course the day we stop writing business you're going to have loss ratios that are very very low until the loss curve kind of catches up.
But on a normalized basis we had loss ratios in the low 30s I believe.
I mean is there any room to bring the expense ratio down here or are you kind of running at normal levels? I think we're running at relatively normal levels.
We've had a little bit of noise in there due to the variability which we try to point out every quarter.
The growth of the book enhance the growth of the revenue impacts the expense ratio as well.
But we've said I think that we believe in normalized expense ratios in sort of the 20% to 25% range.
And if we grow the book and are successful in growing the book we can get to the lower end of that.
Have you commented yet on if the PMIERs are implemented as proposed and you don't do any additional reinsurance how much of the value from Radian Asset you would need to extract to meet your required asset test? I think we've put the numbers out there so they are pretty evident in terms of the needs or certainly the range.
And I think that again we believe the financial guaranty value is there and if we can capture a substantial portion of that that's our goal.
And regardless I think the ability for us to meet the financial requirements is we're confident in that because there are other options reinsurance options and things like that.
So we don't need a certain number to get there.
But we are obviously trying to maximize value and we believe we can because it's a very strong company.
Do you have a sense for how much you could get potentially through the issuance of surplus allowance? Not specific numbers but we do have the concept of surplus which I think we raised on our other call is certainly one that could be pursued and make sense in the context of the PMIERs.
But we don't really have numbers out there.
Something like that would need the department's approvals and things like that.
So that would have to be worked through them.
And just one last question.
Have you commented yet on how much of a buffer over your acquired assets you would want to get to by the end of 2016? We really haven't said obviously that's going to depend on the way the market moves and how we're doing in terms of our results.
And so surely you would want some sort of cushion and be able to absorb some growth without having to manage that number so closely.
But we haven't really said in terms of a specific amount.
We'll go next to Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling.
First Bob could you comment as to the type of entity that you've invested in in July.
Is it established as a regulated mortgage insurance entity or a different type of structure? It's a credit insurer Jeff.
So it can certainly do mortgage insurance-related products but the specific licensing is a credit insurer.
And then I couldn't keep up typing could you just review the details of the FG we're reserving again the PREPA shift and the transportation shift? Well just the numbers? Yes please.
I can give that Jeff.
It's Derek.
In terms of the PREPA exposure we maybe increasing reserves of $6.5 million so brining that up to $7.1 million -- I'm sorry PREPA was up right with $4.6 million to $4.7 million.
In terms of the Highway and Transportation Authority the increase was $6.5 million to $7.1 million.
And then in terms of the PMIERs you have a reinsurance recapture option coming up I believe December 31 conceivably you may make a decision on that before we get the finalized version.
How are you thinking about that opportunity? And then in your previous conference call where you discussed PMIERs was your commentary assuming your recapture abilities or assuming that that's reinsurance days outstanding? We have the option.
It's nice to have the options.
So we'll make that decision when the time comes.
The business is performing really really well.
So it's profitable.
So recapture would certainly be from an economic standpoint would be where we would lean however in light of PMIERs recapturing would require us to have more assets.
So we'll make that decision but I think in terms of performance we would lean toward recapturing and we'll have to see where we stand in terms of required assets versus available assets and make that decision.
So at this point it's really comes down to the line of whether or not -- for the '14 recapture whether or not you have the rules finalized and valuations of cost of capital at that point et cetera? Yes somewhat Jeff.
But I think there are other ways conceivably we could recapture and then do some thing else in terms of reinsurance that's more efficient and less costly that we'd do the same in terms of the impact on required assets.
So that could be some thing we do.
And then last question.
In terms of the traditional loss development curves where we see peak incurred [ph] year three four; paids four five.
Do you think those traditional curves are holding for your '09 in after-books or are those books developing a little bit more slowly? What do you think the experience has been so we can kind of look at your disclosure and get a feel for what is a seasoned loss ratio versus non -- I mean those books are obviously developing slowly if you look at in terms of where they are from a default and loss rate.
They are historically extremely low.
So from a development standpoint we would say they are probably developing a bit slower.
Any idea to extend? I mean are we looking at peak five six on incurred versus three four? I mean I think peak maybe probably a year or year-and-a-half out so forward from what you've traditionally seen.
So maybe you're looking at five-and-a-half six years.
Our next question is from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
When we're thinking about the cash flow generation of Clayton is that gross profit number a good approximation of the cash flow that could be generated? It's not because there is going to be expenses associated with the company.
So I think next quarter you'll get a much better view of what the cash flow will be.
I think with this quarter we really just wanted to show the revenue trends and the gross profit percentage but of course there are operating expenses and there will be interest expense associated with the debt that we incurred.
So I think you will get a much better view next quarter.
And then I guess when we are thinking should we look back to kind of the net income and the amortization expenses that you gave I guess last quarter as in terms of less cash generation? We did that for that reason to give you an idea of what they were generating.
But again I think next quarter as we report the results within or consolidated results you will get a much clearer view of the expected cash flow to group which we've said and continue to say we expect to be modest.
We have a question now from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous.
Bob thanks for clarification on the returns in the mid-teens.
Just wanted to clarify is that an unlevered return? It is yes.
And I assume that's just on the capital at the mortgage insurance subsidiary? Yes.
The capital required to be held against the business.
Assuming your higher quality business of the current mix what are kind of the over the run loss ratios implied in that? They are going to be pretty low because in the current environment we're really looking at the more recent books of business.
So we're probably looking at the lower 20s or high-teens lower 20s.
And on just as far as you're provisioning on early stage I saw the reserve for delinquent went from about 10 point to $1 000 to 9.8 in the quarter what stage are we at in here moving back to normal see for what the early stage delinquency reserving was compared to pre-crises levels? I think in terms of development it is drifting back.
The thing which you also keep in mind though in terms of the incremental the offset are moving into that that's still predominantly from the legacy books.
So I still think about 75% that are moving in are still from the legacy book.
I think you'd move to more normalized level when you see kind of a transition over time away from the legacy book.
So I think it's just gradually quarter-over-quarter transitioning back.
I wouldn't say it's there yet.
We continue to watch the developments and we'll make any adjustments that we think are wanted.
And could you give us a sense of what this quarter's the expectation of lifetime default was or what you might have seen historically from the new developments? In terms of lifetime defaults I mean in terms of obviously the new book that you're kind of seeing transition in terms of development over time as Bob indicated loss ratios on that we'd see historically at extremely low levels.
In terms of what baked-in in terms of our projections we're still looking at on a net basis a little over 20%.
Did you gave any thoughts or kind of color for the rest of the year for NIW? Yes.
I mean we took a look at it and obviously the mortgage market as a whole is down a bit from what we thought as we were coming into the year.
But given sort of what we've seen over the last few months and where things are trending we still believe that NIW will be somewhere between 35 and 40.
And we do have a follow-up from Bose George with KBW.
Just wanted to make sure wanted to go back to your comment on the returns on new business assuming PMIERs.
Did you say that's a mid-teens returned assuming the current book of business under PMIERs? The current mix that we're wiring today which is of really high quality.
And we have no further questions in queue.
So please go ahead with any closing remarks.
Well I'd like to thank you all for participating in our call.
And look forward to seeing you again at the next quarter call.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Radian’s Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct question-and-answer session and the instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Emily Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to Radian’s third quarter 2014 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian’s financial results for the quarter was issued earlier this morning and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release contains a non-GAAP measures that will be discuss during today’s call.
The complete description of this measures and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release Exhibit E and on the Investors section of our website.
During the call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian’s Radian’s Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Quint Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group and Joseph D’Urso President of Clayton.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in Radian.
Our third quarter financial results were outstanding and I’m delighted to share the highlights with you today.
The primary drivers of our results were the strong credit performance of both our legacy mortgage insurance and financial guarantee books and growing positive impact of our large and profitable MI book of business written after 2008.
Our strong quarter included Clayton’s excellent results illustrating the important benefit of our diversification strategy.
Following my comments today Bob will cover the details of our financial position and then we’ll open the call to your questions.
In the third quarter Radian increased its profits with net income of $154 million or $0.67 per diluted share.
This compares favorably to a net loss for the third quarter of last year of $13 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
Book value per share at September 30 2014 was $9.08.
Adjusted pretax operating income was $147 million for the third quarter of 2014 compared to an operating loss for the third quarter of last year of $12 million.
Now I’d like to review several highlights from the quarter.
First we continued to grow and improve a high quality and industry leading mortgage insurance enforce which is a primary driver of future earnings.
We wrote more than $11 billion of new MI business in the third quarter an increase of 20% from last year.
While overall the national mortgage origination volume has declined from the same period last year we have seen business shift during that period from the FHA and purchase volume has outplayed refinance volume which is positive for our business since purchase transactions are more likely to use mortgage insurance than refis.
At the recent Mortgage Bankers’ Association Annual Convention we received positive feedback from our customers on how they value the new ideas and initiatives we bring to the table.
For example we launched a new community program earlier this month called Ready Set Own to increase home ownership into sum the program which is supported by the Mayor of Tucson as well as housing lending and credit counseling groups in the area received local and national attention for its unique approach to home buyer education and credit counseling.
Our sales team both in the field as well as enhanced sales located in our offices continues to succeed in attracting new business.
We signed 39 new customers in the third quarter alone who have already begun submitting business and we signed a total of 151 new customers year-to-date.
As we mentioned over the past several years we have had tremendous success at Radian in strengthening our mortgage insurance franchise by adding new customers.
In fact more than one-third of INIW in the third quarter gain from customers new to Radian since 2011.
It’s also important to note that we believe approximately 20% of mortgage originated to-date are not yet Radian customers including a few in the top 20.
This is a good thing because it creates opportunities for future growth that we are actively pursuing.
Turning to product mix while I mentioned that home purchase volume has outplayed refinance volume recently mortgage rates have also begun coming down and industry experts believes this may encourage the refinancing activity.
Regardless of the type of mortgage business being written purchase or refi Radian is a ready to support our customers with the products they need in any lending environment.
We continue to pursue a proven balanced and diversified product mix of single versus monthly premium business.
This strategy has been successful for us in several ways for recapturing business from the FHA for minimizing interest rate volatility with product diversification and with regards to credit performance and delivering acceptable returns in our business.
While the percentage of singles we wrote in the third quarter increased slightly we expect to return to our target of approximately one quarter of our business coming from singles overtime.
While new business volume remains a top priority our ability to grow our mortgage insurance in force is paramount to Radian’s success and earnings power.
Our persistency which is the amount of business that remains on our books over a 12 month period reached 83.5% in the third quarter compared to 80.5% in the third quarter of 2013.
Our insurance enforce grew 7% from the third quarter of last year and we once again led our industry as the largest mortgage insurance company with $169 billion of insurance enforce.
Second our continued success in writing new business improves the credit profile of our portfolio.
As you can see on slide 11 of our webcast presentation the high quality books of mortgage insurance business written after 2008 including loans completing half refinance represented the overwhelming majority of our primary mortgage insurance portfolio 78% as of September 30 2014.
This again is one of the key drivers of our future financial results.
As our legacy portfolio shrinks and improves an important indicator of its resiliency is the fact that approximately 70% of our performing loans from 2005 and 2008 have never been in default.
Our total number of primary delinquent loans dropped by 28% year-over-year as you can see on slide 23.
Our primary default count increased to 46 843 loans and our primary default rate which has been declining steadily since its 2009 peak felt to 5.4%.
In addition the MI incurred lost was 22.5% in the quarter representing another positive trend.
This compares to a loss ratio of 74.8% in the third quarter of 2013.
While we are pleased with the outstanding credit trends this quarter we do expect fourth quarter to show more typical signs of seasonality expected in our business where new defaults tend to increase later in the year.
Third slide 12 shows that for the nine months ended September 30 2014 the earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages were $352 million which was higher for the first nine months of this year than the $337 million for all of last year.
This illustrates the steadily increasing positive impact of our business mix.
It’s also noteworthy to mention that the 2008 and prior vintages are positive year-to-date by $111 million.
Fourth we continued to make progress in reducing our legacy mortgage insurance exposure further minimizing the risk of future losses for Radian.
We entered into a settlement agreement with Bank of America Countrywide in September which is another important step in managing our legacy MI exposure and in creating even greater certainty around the reserves held against our legacy loans.
When implemented this agreement will resolve any future claims and disputes regarding recessions denials and curtailments on our Bank of America legacy loans.
This agreement remains subject to GSE approval.
Fifth our financial results this quarter include our recent acquisition of Clayton a leading provider of outsource mortgage and real estate solutions.
Clayton adds a diversified source of fee-based revenue for Radian and also broadens our participation in the residential mortgage market value chain with services that complement our MI business.
Clayton had an excellent third quarter which Bob will discuss in more details.
Importantly our Clayton and Radian teams are making valuable introductions to new potential customers and we are taking our first steps down the road that we believe provides a competitive advantage and another way to differentiate Radian from our mortgage insurance peers.
Also as we reported in our press release this morning I am pleased to announce that Joe D’Urso will assume leadership of Clayton.
Joe has been Chief Operating Officer of Clayton managing all underlying business units.
As president reporting directly to me Joe will be responsible for the overall strategic direction of the company.
Previously Jo was president and Chief Operating Officer of Green River Capital a Clayton subsidiary.
He has an impressive background and outstanding reputation with 23 years in the financial services industry primarily in the mortgage and real estate capital market sectors.
I am confident that Joe will continue to strengthen Clayton’s position in the market and will be a valuable member of the Radian executive team.
Sixth our success in reducing the exposure in our Financial Guaranty business continues with the reduction now at 83% since 2008 including in many of the riskier segments of the portfolio.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income for the Financial Guaranty segment was $9.3 million for the quarter and as we’ve said before we believe Radian Asset is a solid over-capitalized company with strong economic value.
We’re actively working on a number of alternatives to monetize or to otherwise utilize Radian Assets in a way that will maximize its value consistent with PMIERs.
And finally Radian submitted its letter during the public comment period last month to the FHFA on the draft PMIERs.
Other private MI the state insurance departments the mortgage and real estate community and various housing and consumer groups also provided comment letters with many consistent themes.
What’s most important to remember is we expect to have the ability to fully comply with PMIERs within the applicable transition period without a need to raise external capital.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Bob for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
I will be covering our P&amp;L activity and trends for the third quarter of 2014 some updated expectations regarding the balance of 2014 into 2015.
Our financial results this quarter were excellent led by continued strong credit performance in both Mortgage Insurance and Financial Guaranty top-line growth in MI driven by growth in insurance enforced which is up 2.6% for the quarter and 5% year-to-date and expenses that were in line with expectations.
As we utilize our deferred tax asset our effective tax rate remains negligible.
There were a few favorable non-recurring items this quarter that impacted both premiums earned and incurred losses that I will describe in detail later.
In addition to our Mortgage Insurance and Financial Guaranty segments our P&amp;L this quarter includes the third business segment Mortgage &amp; Real Estate Services which represents the results of Clayton.
Our EPS calculation for the third quarter includes both the dilutive impact of our 2019 convertible debt which adds 37.7 million shares to our share count and adds back $5.5 million of interest expense to income for EPS calculation purposes and additional EPS dilution relating to our 2017 convertible debt of approximately 6.3 million shares.
A table of our fully diluted share count is presented in Exhibit B.
The MI provision for losses was $49 million this quarter compared to $65 million last quarter and $150 million a year ago.
Lower incurred losses have become a trend and continue to reflect improving default experience as new primary default totals were 20% better than third quarter of last year and cure rates have gone up.
As S.A.
mentioned we entered into a settlement with Bank of America in September which is expected to provide resolution on a substantial portion of our legacy loss mitigation activity and exposure.
There are various items that were impacted by the terms of the settlement including a significant reduction in our IBNR reserve due to lower expected re-instatements of prior rescissions and denials which was offset by an increase in case reserves to reflect lower future rescission and denial rates on BOA settlement loan.
The net impact of this and our quarterly updates to our growth in net roll rates and severity rates was immaterial to loss reserve.
In our loss reserve estimate we are now focusing more on early stage versus foreclosure stage defaults as a default to claim or role rate predictor.
Regardless of age an early stage default is one fourth of foreclosure sale has not been scheduled or held.
Of note the estimated role rate we now use on a new delinquent loan is approximately 17% down from our previous estimate of 20%.
The current estimated role rate for foreclosure stage default for which a foreclosure sale has been scheduled or held is approximately 81%.
We have made some changes to our breakdown of defaults on slide 17 to present what we think are the most important drivers of ultimate claims on our defaulted population.
There was a current period benefit of approximately $15 million in the quarter for loss mitigation credit we expect to receive within the BOA settlement for loans that are currently performing.
Because of this non-recurring benefit and the typical fourth quarter seasonal factors in which defaults are typically higher we expect an increased MI loss provision in the fourth quarter compared to this quarter.
While claims paid up trended down as anticipated we expect them to rise in the fourth quarter and possibly into the first quarter of 2015 due to the loan reinstatements and associated claim payments resulting from our recent settlement with Bank of America.
We still expect full year 2014 claims paid to be between $900 million and $1 billion and we expect claims paid in 2015 to be down materially from this year.
We will be providing further guidance on our expectations for 2015 claims paid next quarter.
In addition to insurance enforced growth MI premiums during the quarter were aided by two non-recurring items related to the BOA settlement that had an aggregate impact of approximately $10 million.
First there is an expected return of Radian’s premiums refunded to BOA on previously rescinded loans that we expect to reinstate and pay.
Second there was a related reduction of accrual for future expected premium refund.
Losses in the Financial Guaranty segment continue to be modest as the book runs down.
A negative incurred loss for the quarter related primarily to a direct public finance exposure that was resolved more favorably than we had anticipated further demonstrating our successful loss mitigation track record.
Expectations regarding potential credit losses on our Puerto Rico credits and the second-to-pay CLO exposure that we have been talking about remained essentially unchanged from June 30 2014 levels.
Clayton results for the quarter were strong led by due diligence revenues which included a large single project and component services revenues from a strong market for single-family rental securitization.
The broad product offerings from Clayton allowed us to take advantage of opportunities in almost any mortgage or real estate market.
For example while the origination market and non-GSE RMBS market is lower than expected this year opportunities have risen in the compliance and single-family rental securitization areas.
We are allocating all of the interest associated with our recent $300 million debt issuance to the Clayton segment therefore any adjusted pre-tax operating income and that was $5.3 million this quarter represents earnings generated by Clayton in excess of fully allocated cost.
The primary differences between our operating metric for Clayton adjusted pretax operating income and EBITDA is that we include interest expense and normal depreciation of tangible assets in our measure.
We’re expecting to upstream approximately $5 million of cash from Clayton to Radian Group during the fourth quarter.
Keep in mind that certain revenues of Clayton can be lumpy because they are transaction driven and we are not expecting quite a strong of fourth quarter due to the anticipated timing for certain projects.
We are excited about the 2015 prospects for Clayton during which we expect to begin to realize certain synergies with the MI business that are currently being carefully planned before they are executed.
Slide 12 detects our current balance sheet fair value position along with expected net credit losses or recoveries on fair-valued exposures.
Based on our projections we expect to add a $141 million or $0.74 per share to pre-tax book value from these positions over time as the exposures mature or are otherwise eliminated.
That number is derived by taking the net balance sheet liability of $82 million and adding the present value of the expected credit loss recoveries of $59 million.
The valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset was $834 million this quarter or approximately $4.37 per share and has been reduced each quarter this year based on our pre-tax income.
As we make money we utilize our DTA and reduce the valuation allowance.
We still expect to recover our valuation allowance by sometime in 2015 although we are carefully assessing the increasing possibility of a recovery at year end 2014.
With regard to PMIERs our first priority is to actively evaluate opportunities to transform the economy value of Radian Asset our Financial Guaranty Company in a manner that’s consistent with the PMIERs framework and we are also exploring various mortgage insurance reinsurance possibilities.
We expect more clarity with regard to our future plans for Financial Guaranty in a relatively near future which will enable us to provide more specific PMIERs capital plans.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thanks Bob.
Once again we are pleased to share with you our outstanding financial performance in the third quarter.
We believe that there is continued growth and opportunity ahead for Radian through continued success in our mortgage insurance business further leveraging our risk management expertise and through Clayton’s industry-leading mortgage and real estate services.
Together we have a strong foundation that should drive Radian’s success to the next space in the evolution of the U.S.
housing finance markets.
In closing I would like to once again remind you that as we face the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead with we do so with the benefit of the growing positive impact from our large profitable post-downturn MI book continued credit improvement in our legacy MI book a strongly capitalized Financial Guaranty business and greater strategic opportunities from the Clayton acquisition.
Now operator we’d like to open the call to questions.
Of course.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from the line of Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just wonder if you could update us any progress you’ve made on strategic alternatives for the Financial Guaranty business and if you were to seek reinsurance on that would that hypothetically free-up capital that you regulate upstream? Yes.
First again as we said we believe Radian Asset is solid over to capitalize company with strong economic value and as we’ve said before we are working with an advisor to monetize or otherwise utilize Radian Asset in a way that will maximize its value consistent with PMIERs.
So in addition to a potential sale of the business we’re considering a variety of other options including continuing to take dividends and combining that with the reinsurance or surplus notes and I’ll ask Bob will comment on your reinsurance part of the question in a minute.
All I can say in addition to that is that we’re pleased with the progress in exploring all the alternatives with the help of our advisor.
Yes.
So Eric with regard to reinsurance it is a possibility so it’s one of the alternatives we are exploring.
I think that it would need to be a substantial of all of the book reinsurance in order to be able to take substantial dividends in the near future.
Got it.
Is there any possibility that you could dividend up the entire amount of capital if you reinsure the whole business? I think it’s conceivable with the reinsurer have creditability and the stability.
It’s still something we would need to get approval from New York from but it’s a possibility certainly.
Okay.
And then just on the updated claim rate expectation just wondering if you could walk us through I guess how that can progress from here and what drove you to do it in this quarter? Claim rate expectations? Yeah.
The changes in estimates that we make we always look at historical experience we try to do things that are consistent with trends and the change in estimate this quarter related impart to using this early-stage late-stage as a significant roadway predictor and that’s something we’ve been looking at for quite some time and we think it is a very valid roadway predictor.
You saw the change in the brand new delinquencies to 17% that’s something that Derek has mentioned previously has been something we’ve been observing and we made that change and then some of the later stage where foreclosure sale has been scheduled or held there were also changes in those buckets.
So we always update based on historical experience we said in the past and we really like to see trends we don’t like to do things immediately.
We like to see things develop overtime and it was time to make these changes and we think there are better estimates with regard to roadways.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
First I have just a follow up question on the reserves.
I was just trying to figure out whether there is actually an impact on the provision in the quarter while the reserve for delinquent loan actually went up if you actually included it went down affirm out in the quarter.
I assume it’s related to the changes you’re just discussing the factors but is there any kind of one-time impact that flow through the provision? Mark the one thing that I mentioned with the $15 million which was current period benefit with regard to the BOA settlement and it pertained to performing loan.
So the intrinsic can requires if you take that as a current period benefit.
So that would be the one thing to highlight as a non-recurring item.
The other thing I think you’re right had offsetting impacts and were immaterial to the overall.
Okay.
And then just to make sure I’ve got it right.
In addition to that $15 million you also said there are $10 million non-recurring benefits of premiums as well from that BOA settlement? That’s right.
Yes that we mentioned and that is related to refunds of premium.
As recession rates go up then we get refunded in premiums so it has opposite effect.
If future recession rates go down then we refund less premium so yes that was an impact from the settlement and it was non-recurring.
Okay and are those the only two non-recurring items you was calling out in the quarter? Yes.
Those were the ones that we mentioned yes.
Okay great.
And then just one other question is there any color you can provide on the synergies between EMI and Clayton that you’re planning? Sure Mark.
That’s a very good question.
When we made the Clayton acquisition we did so for the following reasons.
First on the standalone basis we believe Clayton is a very strong company which as you saw continues to perform profitability and in addition to profitability gives us an opportunity to take advantage of the private label securitization market whenever it comes back strongly.
Second on top of that we believe that with the large customer footprint that Radian MI now had in dealing with 80% of all the lenders have been including any independent mid-size and small lenders they have the opportunity to use Clayton services as well as some of the large lenders in terms of contract underwriting some of the other kinds of operational services they need particularly in a highly important compliance environment where they need to be on top of the loans they originate and the servicing of those loans.
Third we believe there is opportunities that Bob talked about as we thoughtfully look at to take some of the services we utilize from other third-party vendors and transfer that business in a systematic manner equate on an absolute basis and we’ve just received the approval from our insurance department in terms of master services agreements to do that.
And fourth beyond that there is opportunities to look at how to optimize our operation’s platform more efficiently utilize technology more efficiently across the broader operating footprint in multiple locations that Clayton and Radian have.
And fifth finally there is an opportunity to launch new products and services directed at our customers and deal with the quite opportunities in the changing housing finance environment that leverage Radian’s risk management and insurance taking capabilities with Clayton’s operational and due diligence capabilities.
I hope that addresses your questions.
Yeah absolutely.
Are you in a position to give us a sense of what you think the revenue opportunity is here and kind what the incremental margins there is might be? Look.
All I can say is we are excited about those opportunities but as you can imagine some of these will take time to execute which is great.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just one last question it sounds like there is some lumpiness to the earnings that I think Bob have referenced there was kind of big project this quarter.
Is there any kind of seasonality to that and maybe you can help us to think through as we try and model those earnings? Yes.
Hi this is Joseph D’Urso President of Clayton.
There is definitely some seasonality when it comes to the REO portion of the business.
With rest of the business there not so much seasonality as much there is activity in the marketplace for loans and securitizations.
So there is definitely lumpiness we’ve had that throughout our history and it is based on the levels of activity that you see in the asset markets.
Okay.
And for the REO portion how does the seasonality were? So we will slow down as we come into the fourth quarter marginally as fewer people go out and buy homes and that starts to pick up slowly throughout the first quarter and then into the spring in the second quarter where it really starts to pick up significantly.
Great.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Looking at the role the claim assumptions I think your old slide 15 is now gone with the new slide deck.
The Bob you talked about the 17 on the early stage 81 on the late I’m just trying to reconcile because I got 53 net full claim rate on this book.
Last quarter it was 47 so did the middle buckets go up on the assumptions and what are those numbers they were 43 and 50 last quarter for the full ‘11 and ‘12 just trying to reconcile the sequential change.
Yeah.
I think Jack what you’ve seen is that we’ve made changes in a variety of buckets.
The early one going down some of the later one is going up and overall I did go up I think offset to that is severity where we have been seeing for quite some time the severity has been less than we have previously estimated.
So that was kind of an offsetting factor but I mean in terms of just those rats overall they went up but in the early stage they went down and this foreclosure stage which is really driver of all rates went up.
Okay.
And then one of things we’ve been seeing from the banking industry for probably the better part of the year plus is actually negative reserving and when I look at the 78% 79% HARP plus post ‘08 these changes being made severity coming down I mean is it foreseeable at some point that we actually see a negative loss incurred numbers is that possible and will that require a regulatory power that will play out if is it all possible? Yeah.
I mean what you would have to have so we break up our incurred loss into two components one into new defaults.
So there going be new defaults in any given quarter and there is going be an incurred loss associated with that new default.
That’s going be a positive incurred loss.
Any negative would be in the second line which is the existing default.
So full over reserved on the existing defaults and there is a reason to make an adjustment than that could go the other way.
Now you’ve seen to the first three quarters of 2014 that incurred loss has been negative now it hasn’t been negative enough to drive an overall negative number it would have to negative to be that way conceivable but that’s the way you will get there.
Prior to this year we had upward adjustments in that existing defaults because estimating reserves is very difficult and as you’ve seen we always try to use the information to get it right.
So that’s what it would take in an improving environment you’re more likely to see those negative adjustments.
But we think every quarter the reserve that we have is the best estimate and ideally if that’s the case you would have a zero in that line next quarter.
Okay great.
And then just sort of bigger picture.
I mean how much your business historically in a normal I guess defining normal is sort of a 2000 2003 kind a window is 95 plus with the talk about coming back to doing more 97 out at state authorities.
How should we think about that as a future opportunity? So this is Teresa and it about 50% of the business.
When you back to that time frame it would been in that category.
So obviously the other thing I would just add is that up until last November we saw some activity in that 95% to 97% plus LTB but get pullback from that.
And so we saw that decline and is very negligible at this point.
So we are looking forward to seeing the GSPs come back with 97 product.
Alright great.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks guys good morning.
Just a follow up on the Jack’s question on the 97s.
Just with PMIERs the way it’s written it looks to more challenging in terms of the capital requirement of the 97s.
So if the 97s are rolled that does it have to be in conjunction with some adjustment to PMIERs? This is Derek.
It obviously would be intensive from a capitalization perspective looking at the current grid.
But in terms of its exact impact we’ll have to wait and see what the final PMIERs grids will look like.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Actually just switching to the Financial Guaranty piece you noted the benefit from that on the losses incurred but if the expenses were lower as well.
Is there anything one-time there or it just start of expenses coming down? No.
This is Dave.
We obviously have a continued close scrutiny on our expenses and our operating expenses have been trending lower.
Okay great.
And then actually just going back to the question about the $15 million benefit from the BSE settlement.
Is that going through the reserve release for this quarter I just I didn’t fully understand that? It ran through incurred losses so it doesn’t impact incurred losses this quarter.
So yes.
So that $70 million number just would have been $15 million higher? Yeah.
We had not recognized that.
We essentially deferred it because remember we haven’t reserved for loans that are performing.
So some of these performing loans will delinquent in the future and we will reserve against them and we will have already taken the rescission denial benefit related to those loans.
Okay.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just in terms of the timing on doing anything on Radian and Financial Guaranty will that be only after you get the final PMIERs or could you take some actions before that? Bose we are continuing to evaluate our alternatives and I can’t answer whether we would do something before or after clearly the more inside to get into PMIERs the better of there but there are actions possible that would give us the PMIERs benefit in any scenario.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
You mentioned that you’re upstreaming some cash from Clayton in the fourth quarter is that something that you expect to be regular and is that $5 million in expected size? We’ll size it each quarter but yes the expectation is that if Clayton continues to earn money and generate positive cash flow.
We would regularly upstream to the holding company.
Got it.
Is there any cash or capital needs that Clayton or it’s pretty much all sort of cash generation be available to sort of to bring up to the parent? Generally it’s a very low capital intensive business.
However there could be capital expenditures there could be other needs for the cash at Clayton.
So I wouldn’t say always but generally the positive cash flow generated can be used by the Holding Company.
Alright.
And then just to clarify on Bose’s question the $15 million benefit is that coming on the new default line or kind of the prior period adjustment line? It’s on the second.
It’s on the existing default line.
It’s not on the new default line because new default are just new defaults during the quarter.
Got it.
So out of $24 million $15 million of that was from the settlement.
That’s correct.
Great.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
There was pretty good improvement in the operating cost for the MI side was there anything one-time in that or how should we think about the go forward cost structure for MI business? Yeah.
We tried in the press release and you can see we tried to reconcile because there are some moving pieces there.
I think you’ll see that if you normalized that it was essentially down just a little bit and in line with expectation.
So this quarter we had the Clayton operating expenses which drew some of the number.
The long-term comp is always something we use to disclose because it has gone up and down with the start price.
So if you normalize it I would say the MI expenses are down just slight little from last quarter.
Okay perfect.
And then I’m just trying to reconcile the existing defaults.
They had a benefit of $25 million off which you disclosed $15 million that was huge settlement.
So the $7 million benefit how does that kind of jive with the increase in later stage claim rates? It’s going to be in there so the increase in later stage it’s going to be a positive number in EBITDA other things in there.
That’s where we put loans that are aging and IBNR changes.
So there are lots of things that are going through that line and all-in-all the net impact other than the $15 million was still a little bit negative but there were some positive items in there as well such as the claim rates that you are talking about.
Okay.
And then are there any thoughts around the news that the housing asking MI to do more DA loans and what kind of the opportunity structure would look like market size how you kind of price that second loan charge would be? We’re are having conversations about this and really the conversation is more with DA and the idea is really for us to potentially come in and ensure the lender beyond 25% that is DA in short.
And so we’re taking a look at that really trying to understand what the vendors are interested in and how much of a market there is for that so that we can then figure out what the right structure would be on a go forward basis.
Okay perfect.
And what are the kind of thoughts around the opportunity for 97s assuming the PIMERs don’t change just the 97 seem to be most penalizing bucket from the available asset ratio size? Yeah and Derek can add to that obviously depending on where the PIMERs are will depend on sort of what amount of 97s will willing to have overall portfolio as well as kind of what the pricing would need to be on a go forward basis to have an appropriate return.
So we would be evaluating that.
The other critical piece of them for connection we need is what the parameters are going to be that the GSE establish and they are still working through what those going to be.
Okay perfect.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
And we do have a question from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Teresa I’ll actually follow up on that question.
There’s a lot of redirect about expanding the mortgage market talking 97s talking MI participating in VA but at the same time you have to consider the lender side of it and there has also been a lot of articles talking about the lenders not necessarily buying into this because there is still lot of lenders law risk out there.
What’s the risk at all? Just talk about expanding the market and potentially the private MI world ends up just being that but as just talking you can’t reach in appropriate product at the appropriate pricing? Yes.
So I mean that’s a great question and on the 97s I think a lot of that also connected to the changes in sort of how the GSPs are going to approach lender warranty and I think as you know from the reporting out there and the comments from Director Rob at the MBA there’s a lot of focus MBA has been very involved and working through sort of tightening up lender warranty so that lenders still feel comfortable with the risk that they have on an ongoing basis.
But I’d say that’s going to be critical to how they view their willingness to do 97s.
Having said that they will willing to do them at least at a small percentage until Fannie stop buying them last year so that was state indeed there is going appetite to that on a go forward basis.
With respect to the VAPs that’s a little bit more difficult because I think when it first came out it was sort of characterized more something that the government will be buying but it’s really something more that they’re saying there might be interest in lenders getting the coverage.
And so I think that’s a tougher one to answer because I think it really depends on how the lenders are sort of reserving for that and sort of whether there’s an opportunity to help them kind of in terms of the risk that they feel like they have currently and that’s something that’s going to take a little bit of time to get it on to them.
Okay.
And then probably for Bob do you have piece of reinsurance you can [recall] back as of the December 31st who knows that PMIERs will be finalized by then.
How are you approaching that? Do you have an option that you can wait for PMIERs till January February or do you have to make a decision before year end? We would likely make a decision before year end Jeff at this point I’m inclined to potentially claw some or all what we’re allowed to but we’ll make that decision prior to year end.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
Bob you mentioned that there is a possibility that be NOL evaluation allowance might be reverse in the fourth quarter.
Can you just remind us using the expenditure count with the impact of book value per share would be? Today it’s $4.37 per share the valuation allowance per share and that was changed based on the fourth quarter.
Right okay.
That’s a determination that your auditors have come to? It’s our determination based on analysis that obviously we’ve already started and we would get buying from the orders they would do it alongside but it’s our decision.
Okay great and at that point your GAAP results would show you paying the statutory tax rate? At the point in time when we get the valuation allowance reversed and the DTA comes back on the book then we’d be booking taxes as per normal.
Okay great.
And then just as we model out Clayton you’ve given us some historical gross profit on services which before I though was going to be the operating earnings metric but should we think that the interest expense and operating expenses that you reported this quarter will more or less be steady state going forward? Yeah.
I think certainly interest expense is $300 million so that’s not going to change.
But in terms of operating expenses I think it’s going to be less sort of directly variable with revenues but it’s if the business grows a lot you might see that grow and but I would say generally in a range.
Great thank you.
Sure.
And our last question comes from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Just one follow-up on that the BSE settlement so you can just remind us what did you say about the impact next quarter around the loss provisions? There wouldn’t be any impact next quarter.
Surely just what happened this quarter and that’s the impact is over? Yeah we called out it.
A lot of it was done prior over this quarter and there wouldn’t be any impact unless we see some sort of change in anything or it’s still subject to approval and things like that.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Sure.
And I guess our last question then is from the line of Steve Stimac with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Hey Bob just to clarify the tax issue oppose to NOL recovery.
You talked about tax is going back to normal.
It’s been a while since we’ve seen normal so what’s a good normal is it sort of high 20s or low 30s for tax rate? Yeah.
I mean it’s close to 35%.
At this point our portfolio is taxable and in the past way back when the earnings were very consistent we had a big unique portfolio so that changes down the road that could impact our effective rate but right off of that pretty much the statutory rate.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
And at this time there are no further questions.
So I’d like to turn the conference call back to S.A.
Ibrahim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for participating in our third quarter earnings call.
I look forward to seeing you again for our full year year-end operating call next quarter.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Radian’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President of Investor Relation Emily Riley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian’s fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian’s financial results for the quarter was issued earlier this morning and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release includes a non-GAAP financial measure that will be discussed during today’s call.
The complete description of this measures and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release Exhibit E and F and on the Investors section of our website.
During the call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian’s Chief Executive Officer; and Franklin Hall Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; David Beidler President of Radian Asset Assurance; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group; and Joseph D’Urso President of Clayton; and Cathy Jackson Corporate Controller.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
I couldn’t be more excited to share with you the progress we made in 2014 to reposition Radian for greater success in the future.
We reduced our overall risk profile putting much of our legacy exposure behind us we introduced our new mortgage and real estate services segment to differentiate Radiant and diversify our revenue sources and we achieved our first full year of profitability since 2006 exiting the year with an announcement to sell our financial guaranty company Radion Assets and eliminate our exposure to financial guaranty credit risk.
All in all it was quite a year.
After what’s had been a long road to recovery for Radian following the housing downturn I’m delighted to turn our attention away from the rear-view mirror.
I look forward to discussing our financial results and reviewing our major accomplishments during our call today while also providing a look ahead at our plans to expand and strengthen our core businesses.
But first let me introduce Frank Hall our Chief Financial Officer who joined Radian at the start of the year and has quickly become a valuable member of our team.
Frank will cover the details of our financial position following my remarks today.
As you know our long time colleague and friend Bob Quint has retired as Radian’s CFO and is helping this year to transition Frank into his new role.
I’ll close my remarks today with a few comments about Bob.
Turning to the quarter’s results.
Earlier today we reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2014 of $428 million or $1.78 per diluted share.
These results include two significant items a net loss on discontinued operations of $450 million or $1.85 per diluted share which consists primarily of the lot on the sale of Radian Assets our financial guaranty subsidiary.
And the reversal of nearly all of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance representing $816 million or $3.36 per diluted share.
The fourth quarter results compare favorably to net income for the quarter ended December 31 2013 of $36 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
For the full-year 2014 net income was $960 million or $4.16 per diluted share.
The full-year results compare favorably to a net loss for the year ended 2013 of $197 million or a $1.18 per diluted share.
Book value per share at December 31 2014 was $10.98.
Adjusted pre-tax income was $58 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to an operating loss for the fourth quarter of last year of $13 million.
For the 12 months adjusted pre-tax operating income was $342 million compared to the prior year operating loss of $67 million.
Achieving full year profitability meaningfully reducing Radian’s overall risk profile and introducing our new mortgage and real estate services segment were our most important accomplishments in 2014.
The key drivers of these accomplishments were: the improvement in the size and quality of our industry- leading mortgage insurance in force the significant reduction in our legacy MI exposure the successful acquisition of Clayton Holdings a leading provider of outsourced mortgage solutions and the pending sale of Radian Asset our financial guaranty subsidiary to Assured Guaranty.
We were pleased to achieve these significant milestones and effectively put many of the challenges of our legacy business behind us in 2014.
And with the agreement to sell our financial guaranty business we’re excited to focus on our core strength in mortgage insurance and mortgage and real estate services.
By simplifying and focusing our business we’re better positioned to drive long-term value both from our large and growing mortgage insurance portfolio as well as by broadening our future sources of revenue.
Now let’s turn to a few highlights from the fourth quarter and the full year 2014.
Frank will discuss the financial impact of the two unusual and significant items in the quarter the reversal of the DTA valuation allowance and the sale of Radian Asset.
You may find the EPS and book value impact on webcast slides 8 and 9.
What’s most important is that these items mark an important turning point for our company as we leave a large portion of our legacy risk behind us.
The reversal of the valuation allowance is a direct result of Radian’s sustained and projected future profitability.
And the planned sale of Radian Asset helps us to leverage the value of this non-core business as we prepare for the finalization of the PMIERs this year.
Turning to the mortgage insurance segment we continue to grow and improve our mortgage insurance in force book which is the largest in the industry and is the primary driver of future earnings.
We wrote $10 billion of new MI business in the fourth quarter an increase of 8% over last year and we wrote $37 billion for the full year.
The composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio continues to improve as the high quality and profitable new business we wrote since 2008 represents 79% of our total primary insurance risk in force or 69% excluding HARP volume.
And the fact that nearly 70% of our performing loans from 2005 to 2008 have never been in default is an important example of the improvement in our legacy MI book.
You may find these details on Slide 12 of our webcast presentation.
While the overall mortgage origination market was nearly 40% smaller in 2014 than in 2013 our industry saw the benefit of increased MI penetration both from a stronger purchase market and from more borrowers choosing private mortgage insurance over FHA.
At Radian our strong relationships with existing customers combined with business from 193 new customers during the year produced new business volume within our expectations.
We continue to strengthen our mortgage insurance franchise each year by adding new lending partners as those customers new to Radian represent not only early business written in 2014 but more future NIW opportunity for our company.
With low interest rates low gas prices and improving employment rates many economists are projecting an increase in home sales in 2015.
In addition to a fairly healthy purchase market existing home owners I expected to take advantage of lower interest rates in the first half of the year which will result in increased refinance volumes.
While it remains difficult to project future NIW we expect to write more new business in 2015 than we did in 2014.
The combined impact of an improving economy and our continued focus on proactively removing legacy MI business resulted in a year-over-year decline in Radian’s total number of primary delinquent loans of 26% as you can see on Slide 22.
On Slide 23 you can see that our primary default count decreased to 45 319 loans and our primary default rates fell to 5.2%.
Slide 13 shows that for the year ended December 31 2014 the earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages of $492 million far exceeded the $108 million from the 2008 and prior vintages and was even greater than the $345 million in 2011 and 2012 combined.
Our substantial level of new insurance written in 2012 to 2014 will drive most of our premiums for the next few years as we strive to continue to increase the level of earned premiums less incurred losses that is the foundation of our profitable growth.
Out mortgage and real estate services segment had fourth quarter total service revenues of $34 million and gross profits on services of $15 million.
As this revenue is transaction based it lends itself to variability depending on the volume of the underlined transactions.
But what’s most important is that the segment adds a diversified source of fee based revenue for Radian.
It also broadens our participation in the residential mortgage market value chain with services that complement our MI business.
We’re seeking to deepen our customer relationships and differentiate Radian among our mortgage insurance peers through this new portfolio of products.
In terms of future opportunity for this segment we expect the ultimate return of private capital and growth of the non-agency RMBS markets to play a key role in our growth as customers take advantage of due diligence services.
We also expect growth in our surveillance business at the regulatory focus on servicing continues to increase and investors and servicers seek to manage their risk.
Turning to two of the topics impacting the mortgage insurance business as many of you know the FHA announced a price decrease that went into effect last month.
This will surprise many based on the FHAs overall financial health and the potential risk to the tax payer.
However we believe that the administration continues to support its stated goal of increasing the role of private capital in the housing finance market.
As we await updates on several regulatory issues including PMIERs LLPAs and G fees we continue to expect that private mortgage insurance will play a significant role in increasing low income and first time home ownership.
Our product is competitive for the vast majority of business we write today which is typically above 700 at FICO and at LTVs to 90% to 95%.
From a home buyer’s perspective private mortgage insurance has the added benefit of being automatically cancelled when the mortgage balance reached 78% of the home’s original value versus FHA insurance that is paid over the entire life of the loan.
In addition the FHAs upfront premium increases the borrowers’ loan amount which is another fixed life of loan cost adding to the home purchase.
The final PMIERs or Mortgage Insurer Eligibility Requirements I expected to be released in the coming months while we do not have an update on the content of the rules or the timing of their release we continue to expect to fully comply without a need to raise additional capital.
Before I turn the call over to Frank let me emphasize that at Radion we’re laser focused on the future.
In 2014 we reduced Radian’s overall risk profile in a meaningful way.
With the maturity of our legacy exposure behind us we are able to simplify and streamline our company to drive long-term value from our core strengths.
Near term we expect to benefit from the exceptional credit quality and earnings power of our existing mortgage insurance book of business.
We have an in force book that is the largest in our industry with outstanding credit quality and shrinking legacy exposure that bodes well for future losses.
We built this book of business on our excellent customer relationships and we’ll continue to grow our book that same way.
Longer-term we’re laying the foundation for future earnings by combining our strong profitable mortgage insurance business with our new mortgage and real estate services platform.
This allows us to provide exceptional value to our customers and continue to differentiate Radian among our peers and it directly aligns with our strategy to serve the entire mortgage finance market.
As you all know the mortgage finance industry is ever changing.
At Radian we are well positioned to take advantage of the next phase of the evolving housing finance market.
We look forward to reporting on our progress in the quarters ahead.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Frank for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
It’s a pleasure to be here and I’m truly honored to be part of the Radian team.
I want to also thank my predecessor Bob Quint for his generosity of time and helping me transition into the role.
As S.A.
mentioned in his remarks in addition to the strong operating results for Radian for both the quarter and the year the financial statements have been significantly impacted by the pending sale of our Financial Guaranty business and reversal of the valuation allowance held against our deferred tax asset.
Our Financial Guaranty business previously reported as a separate segment in our financial statements is now accounted for as discontinued operations.
On our income statement and balance sheet you will note single line items for the approximate $450 million after tax loss from discontinued operations $1.7 billion in assets held for sale and $947 million for liabilities held for sale.
Overall we recognized a pre-tax loss on sale of approximately $468 million.
Our full presentation of this information is done so in a way to both comply with the GAAP requirements of discontinued operations and to provide greater clarity around the moving parts.
The required segment and financial reporting associated with discontinued operations does not permits all previously allocated corporate expenses to be contained within the discontinued operations.
Additionally we have elected not to allocate any interest expense perviously allocated to the Financial Guaranty segment to discontinued operations.
Accordingly these expenses which will continue after closing have been reallocated to the mortgage insurance segment for financial reporting for all periods presented.
In press release Exhibit E we have also presented the impact of these reallocations on the mortgage insurance segment to provide greater transparency and comparability to the prior periods.
And likewise Exhibit D illustrates the detail of discontinued operations for financial guaranty.
You will note on Exhibit D all of the line items that have now been removed from continuing operations and summarized into the single line items perviously mentioned.
Given these recent changes to our business composition we will be revisiting our internal management reporting for our business units and accordingly our segment reporting for future periods.
You will also see that we have removed much of the exposure related disclosures relating to the financial guaranty business as the sale agreement provides for a fixed price transaction where the most significant closing condition is regulatory approvals.
The performance of our financial guaranty business will not impact the purchase price under the agreement and as such our future results of operations are no longer expected to be impacted by financial guaranty.
This transaction is still expected to close in the first half of 2015.
Our second significant item is associated with a deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
This valuation allowance which was previously established when there was uncertainty associated with our ability to utilize the deferred tax asset has been reversed.
The reason for this is that we have both demonstrated an ability to return the profitability and have sufficient strength and quality of earnings to reasonably expect ongoing future profitability.
Nearly the entire valuation allowance held against our deferred tax asset was reversed this quarter adding approximately $816 million to fourth quarter earnings and to book value.
For the foreseeable future you can expect us to book a tax rate close to 35%.
Even though we will generate taxable earnings we expect to pay minimal cash taxes for the next several years as we utilize our net operating loss carry forward which stands today at approximately $1.5 billion.
Our net deferred tax asset for continuing operations at December 31 2014 was approximately $700 million.
And our mortgage insurance statutory surplus includes approximately $208 million of admitted deferred tax assets at December 31 2014 of which approximately $171 million is related to the reversal of our statutory valuation allowance in the fourth quarter on Radian Guaranty.
Over future periods we expect Radian Guaranty’s statutory surplus to fully benefit from the utilization of its approximate $1 billion net operating loss carry forward.
There are also a few other unusual and material items in the quarter that I will speak to as I discussed the continuing operations of Radian.
Our future results are expected to be much simpler and straight forward as many of our legacy complexities will have been permanently resolved.
As such you will see that we did not include default statistics for the month of January in our press release this morning.
The company previously reported these monthly numbers during a time when the legacy mortgage insurance portfolio performance was top of mind for inventors.
Today with the majority of our business and financial results coming from the newer books of business our results are more certain and predictable.
We will continue to provide these details on a quarterly basis where you may see the trends in our default population and NIW more clearly.
Our earnings per share calculation for the fourth quarter includes both the diluted impact of our 2019 convertible debt which adds 37.7 million shares to our share count and adds back $3.6 million of interest expense to income for EPS calculation purposes and additional EPS dilution relating to our 2017 convertible debt of approximately 10.6 million shares.
A table of our fully diluted share count is presented in press release Exhibit B.
We experienced growth in our primary mortgage insurance in force in the quarter of 1.5% and year-over-year of 6.6%.
This brings us to an industry leading $172 billion in total primary insurance in force.
Our expectations for 2015 are continued growth at a similar rate as 2014.
In addition to insurance in force growth mortgage insurance premium during the quarter were aided by an accrual of $9.3 million profit commission earned based on the performance of the business in a third-party quota share reinsurance agreement.
We have chosen not to exercise our option to claw back a portion of this business; instead we have left the reinsurance in place in return for the profit commission and a supplemental upfront cash payment of $15 million that will be recognized into earnings over the next several years.
Leaving the three insurance in place avoids an increase in PMIERs required assets and the lump sum payment is a PMIERs eligible asset.
Our fourth quarter loss ratio was 36.9% which is an increase over the third quarter of 22.5% but significantly lower than 71.9% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
It is expected that our loss ratio will continue to gradually decrease as our higher quality new business continues to grow to a more significant portion of our portfolio.
The loss ratio on the business we are writing today is expected to be approximately 20% with recent book years developing even more favorably.
Our primary mortgage insurance delinquency rate decreased to 5.2% in the fourth quarter from 5.4% in the third quarter of 2014 and we are expecting this trend to continue over time.
The mortgage insurance provision for losses was $84 million this quarter compared to $49 million last quarter and $144 million a year ago.
New primary default totals were significantly better than last year and cure rates have remained strong.
While in the first three quarters of 2014 we experienced a benefit related to existing defaults we did not experience a similar benefit in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder incurred losses should typically be based primarily on new defaults during any quarter with any positive or negative development generally coming from unanticipated items.
Claims paid were less than expected in the fourth quarter due to the implementation date of our recent settlement with Bank of America not occurring until the first quarter of 2015.
Excluding approximately $250 of projected BofA settlement claims in the first quarter and second quarters of 2015 we expect claims paid for the year 2015 to be between $350 million and $450 million down substantially from actual claims paid of $838 million in 2014.
Our other operating expenses were $85.8 million in the fourth quarter including $24.4 million related to long-term compensation expenses and other year-end bonus accruals a significant portion of which was driven by the variable compensation expense related to the $2.46 per share increase in the company’s stock price during the quarter to $16.72 which compares to a $0.55 per share decrease during the third quarter.
Other operating expenses in the fourth quarter also included an $11.2 million lender settlement of remedies related to contract underwriting services provided on legacy business.
While this settlement impacts expenses in the fourth quarter we believe this settlement effectively resolves all disputed remedies related to services on this legacy exposure.
We are still anticipating PMIERs compliance without any need to raise external capital as we are expecting to have completed our number one priority to transform the economic value of Radian Asset into nearly $800 million of liquid assets.
While we wait for the final rules to be published we’re also exploring various reinsurance possibilities on all parts of our book of business.
While we will likely wait until the final rules are published the use of some kind of reinsurance within the PMIERs framework is likely.
We remain confident in our ability to meet the requirements.
We currently have $670 million in holding company cash after consideration of the $100 million capital contribution to Radian Guaranty in February of 2015 but effective as of December 31 2014 for statutory capital.
In our mortgage and real estate services results for the quarter were as expected despite the scale down of a large due diligence project in the third quarter.
The results of operations are in line with our initial performance estimates and we are beginning to develop our cross-selling capabilities among the acquired and legacy businesses.
Keep in mind that the adjusted pretax operating income of the mortgage and real estate services segment includes all of the interest associated with the $300 million debt offering that was completed in conjunction with the purchase.
Now I’d like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Frank.
Let me summarize three important takeaways for 2014.
First we achieved our first full year of profitability since 2006 and meaningfully reduce Radian’s overall risk profile including the sale of Radian Asset putting many of the challenges of our legacy business behind us.
Second we acquired Clayton and introduced our mortgage and real estate services segment with a clear path for growth ahead.
We are driving long-term value from our existing and growing portfolio while diversifying our future sources of revenue.
Third as we look to 2015 and beyond our top priority is to continue to leverage our ability to expand and strengthen our core businesses and to build on our 2014 accomplishments.
Before we open the call to your questions I would like to remind you that I’ll come back after the Q&amp;A to say a few words about Bob Quint.
Now I would like to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Congrats Frank on the new role welcome to the company.
Thank you Eric.
Just had some questions about the provision trends in the quarter.
If looking at the provision dollars per new notice of default it looks like it ticked up a bit from the third quarter.
I was just wondering what was behind that? This is Derek.
I mean to some extent you’re going to see natural kind of seasonal trends and so that’s going to have a marginal impact.
I think overall looking at it continues the trend we’ve been seeing which is generally a decrease in new defaults claims submitted are down and cures are up so it really continues that trend we would expect to continue to see that.
You just saw a little bit of seasonal impact probably in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So there is no change in terms of the ultimate claim rate assumptions on your new notices? We did tick that down from 17% to 16% and the trend on that would expect to probably see that decrease over time.
Okay.
And then just on OpEx I didn’t catch up but how much was the impact of stock comp relative to the third quarter? And then how should we think about that OpEx run rate moving forward from here? Yes so – are you talking about the third quarter or fourth quarter? In the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So in the fourth quarter the total comp related expense was $24.4 million and of that roughly $10 million of it was attributable to stock price increase.
Okay.
And now is relative to the third quarter the $10 million? That’s correct.
In the third quarter it was the opposite direction.
Got it.
And how should we think about I guess the total OpEx moving forward from here? Sure I think so as you normalize for the items that we’ve called out in the press release that reflects probably a pretty good run rate going forward.
But keep in mind as we continue to invest in new products sales force and systems there maybe a slight uptick there but balance with what I call an overarching discipline of looking for continual efficiency opportunities through the organization.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Actually just to follow-up on that stock comp question.
Going forward is there is a good run rate for that numbers like if the stock prices up whatever.
So that the $2 you did this where increase this quarter versus the $10 million.
Is that kind of a good ratio to look at it? Sure the calculation is approximately $4 million for every dollar in the stock price rise but keep in mind too that – does that expense will be completed in June? Okay.
So after that the stock comp expense has gone.
That’s correct.
Okay great.
And then you noted that there’re some expenses reallocated.
I was just wondering if there a room to cut some of those expenses? Absolutely I mean most of the expenses that were reallocated were corporate overhead expenses and that’s something that we’re always mindful of as we review the performance of the organization.
So don’t have a hard dollar on that at this time but certainly we will be reevaluating the support cost going forward.
Okay great.
And then actually so the interest expense I guess also was reallocated is there – I guess if that changes only if you delever like just what thoughts on interest expense going forward? So the interest expense that you’re looking at which may have previously been allocated to FG because we – because of the way that we accounted for discontinued operations the full burden of that now resides within MI.
Okay that makes sense.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
I apologize if I missed this but where the provisions for existing delinquencies was that impacted at all by the BofA settlement? No it wasn’t.
We’re fully reserved for the BofA settlement.
We have yet to effect the settlement but we’re full reserved that we will have no impact on the provision of losses going forward.
And that was Cathy Jackson on control.
Okay thank you.
And regarding FHA pricing a competitor quantified the amount of business written last year that would be cheaper under the new FHA guidelines this year to the borrower.
I was wondering if you could give us some more sensitivity or just what that number was if you know it? Teresa? Well I would say that we believe we can still be competitive with the FHA because actually if you look back and look at certain buckets of business where the FHA has had a pricing advantage we still been able to win business in those buckets.
So it doesn’t sort of follow with sort of perfect execution if you will.
And I think there are number of reasons for that.
One is lender preference one is lender capacity for FHA and one is cancelability of MI versus the FHA which stays on.
And even the upfront premium that FHA charges which then usually rolls into the loan amount.
So we’re still waiting to see what happens with respect to the G fees and LLPA’s because that will have an impact on this as well.
But I think at the end of the day we believe the effect will be somewhere in the mid single-digits.
Okay.
And that’s net of changes that you may expect to happen to LLPAs and G fees? It is actually sort of just taking a look at how this has worked in the past and kind of saying where could we still compete and taking in these other factors.
We think that G fees and the LLPAs could have some additional effect on that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling and Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
31% of your business from single this quarter competitors saying it’s time to back away from that market.
It’s too competitive pricing wise.
What are the unit returns on your singles business versus your monthly? And why is a business we should be comfortable with you’re having such a high mix involved? Let me first say that we’ve always been comfortable writing a portion of our business to singles as a competitive product with FHA and also to balance the duration risk in our portfolio.
And while the singles have a lower expected return than monthly that return is based on duration assumptions that are difficult to estimate.
In fact in some of the recent vintages where loan durations were much shorter than originally anticipated particularly in any heavy refinance environment they resulted in higher than expected returns for singles.
In addition the singles have historically contained marginally better credit quality than monthlies which has also helped their results.
So we’re carefully managing the overall returns that are generated by our business on a blended basis and we’ll continue to do so while providing our MI customers with a wide array of products and services that help their business succeed.
Even where pricing is currently is is this a double digit return product? Jeff it has been a product like we’ve always said in the single-digits - high single-digits but the better way to look at it is on a blended basis because pretty much most of the singles business we do is with customers who give us a variety of business and so we look at it on a blended return basis.
And our historical experience like Teressa said with singles has been that the best strategy we pursue is a blended strategy of some singles and some monthly.
That said of course any competitive actions that reduce the – reduce there going after singles aggressively we’ll hopefully change the market profile to benefit all of us.
The only other thing I would just notice that we tend to see a bit more singles in a refi environment.
So given that we’re in one right now we may see a little bit of an uptick as a result of that.
Right okay.
And then a question on the PMIERs delta now down to the site of $350 million as of June 15 estimates obviously of a two year implementation period.
What – how much do you think that $350 million to narrow over the two year period if we say these things are finalized by the end of second quarter? I mean over the two year period the estimate is it will go away entirely so the short fall will be entirely closed.
And that Jeff it seems no changes.
Okay great.
That’s all I had.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
The investment income line was that – I’m assuming that was all driven by the reduction of FG or was there any other portfolio positioning a play on the investment yields? Yes so the investment income yes excludes FG.
And if you look at Exhibit D and add that together with what you’re seeing in MI you should see a more normalized income item or revenue item there.
Okay great.
And then on the Clayton I mean obviously there is a play here on the private label market coming back 15% this quarter 18% last.
I mean is that 15% to 18% range is that – is it closer to 18% or closer to 15% as we think about the business X a meaningful recovery and securitization for 2015 and 2016? Yes thanks Jack.
This is Joe D’Urso.
The fourth quarter was definitely a little bit slow.
There are some seasonal factors that played into that having said that the third quarter was particularly strong quarter.
So I think somewhere in the middle is a normal run rate absent the return of the RMBS market in any significant way.
Okay great and then a real quick.
S.A.
you had mentioned in your prepared comments you thought NIW could grow year-over-year.
I’m wondering if you are willing to put a percent magnitude on that prediction thanks.
Jack there are so many things happening in this market as you know it’s hard to put a percent number on it.
However the expectation is that the originations this year will be larger.
We basically have all these new customers that we signed up in last year was impact is only tiny in the year in which we signed them up and a greater impact next year.
So a number of things that go into it but we feel good that basically – starting this year out that we will be able to beat last year.
Okay thanks for the try.
Anyway thanks guys.
Hey after last time you can’t get me to put a number.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
My first question is actually a follow-up on that.
Well I understand you’re not going to put a scale the size of the NIW increase.
Just wondering – I am trying to get the sense of the implications sort of for growth and risk.
What percentage of that you think comes from refi transactions that that maybe left and how much of that maybe just from expansion of the market and the growth in the purchase market kind of driving risks higher? This is Teresa.
So well there maybe some increase from a refi point of view at the early part of this year.
We really think that the focus is on purchase growth.
There is a lot of focus on buyer starting to come back into the market formation of households starting to ramp up again.
And so we’re really looking at it in terms of the purchase volume.
And if you look at the demographics as well a lot of the households that are coming into the market we would expect to be in need of low down payment mortgages.
Is that answers your question? Yes yes.
So is it reasonable to assume [indiscernible] you could see growth in risk in force year-over-year that’s kind of in line with sort of better than what you saw in 2014 then? Well I think what we’re saying is we think we would do better than last year but we’re not giving any magnitude on that.
And those 2014 as well as longer term things to keep it in mind when you’re talking about the purchase market while the purchase market have been off to a slow start particularly in 2014.
The long-term demographics are still very favorable with the expectation that a lot of the future purchase volume will come from the Hispanic the African-American and the Asian segments.
And as you know we have been making investments and positioning ourselves with connections to put us in a better spot in dealing with those segments.
Okay great.
And just one other question I wanted to dig a little bit into the comment that you expect times 20% loss ratios on newer business that you’re writing.
Is that 20% loss ratio expectation does that reflects the better than expected performance I think you also alluded to or is it simply a reflection of kind of the loss ratios you would expect to see given the LTVs and the high FICOs of the business that you’ve been writing and may not necessarily even yet reflect the fact that performance could come even better than you would have modeled when you that business? Yes the 20% is really focused upon the new business.
So Frank alluded to the fact that some of the recent vintages could be better than that.
So for instance the 2010 to 2012 vintages I think the development is looking better than that.
So you could probably see a loss ratio below 20% but the 20% was specifically referencing kind of the new business production based upon FICO and LTV that we’re seeing in the market.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I recognizing that it’s early I’m just wondering if you’ve heard any anecdotes from sort of any of your originator partners kind of how they’re viewing FHA premium cut and if you’re seeing any sort of shifts – business or non-shifted business in a couple of weeks? [Indiscernible] and answer that.
All I’ve been hearing is they are so swamped with refinance volume that I don’t know if they’ve have been able to focus on it.
Yes I mean I think that that’s certainly what we’ve been hearing.
I think a couple of important points: one is the focus really seems to be on refi the current FHA business.
And so everyone is concerned about that they’re concerned about the value of their MSRs and trying to at least recapture them even if it’s at a lower coupon.
So that seems to be where the focus is as opposed to it really sort of cannibalizing any of the business that we would typically see.
I think the other thing is for many lenders.
They are still concerned about the actions that have been taken against them by the Department of Justice and they are reluctant to increase the amount of FHA lending they’ve done.
So I’ve heard from a number of lenders that well they will continue to participate in the FHA market they don’t have a lot appetite just increase the amount of FHA lending that they’re doing.
Great that’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
On the – there was a $10 million quarter-over-quarter IBNR increase does that related to the Bank of America settlement.
You would think have been experienced in the recent path as those decisions and denials move to actual new delinquencies that would go down not up.
Yes this is Cathy Jackson.
Yes that’s exactly what’s related to.
It’s related to decisions and denials related to the population of loans that are included in the settlement agreement with Bank of America so that will be paid out in the future but there is no [indiscernible] reserves there is no impact.
So barring some adverse development which we haven’t seen we should think – we can think of that more like a one time because the settlement rather than something as a larger issue? Barring changes in the previous… Yes you’ll see that come down significantly.
Okay perfect.
And then on the new default reserving I just had a follow up question if I look at the net new defaults the new defaults minus intra-quarter cures.
It looks like there was a reserve from 9 400 to 10 700 and with the commentary of 17% the fall probably the 16% it implies at the average NIW increase by over $11 000 it just seems like a lot to me more than seasonally driven? Yes I don’t know about the exact math there I mean the other thing that offset the decrease in the new default were always picked up the severity side was from a 103% or 104% so that has some potential impact.
Okay well.
Thanks for taking my call.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks just a follow-up.
Strategically we saw Arch talk about creating subsidiaries to all non-GSE business.
Curious what you think about that and strategically is that something you think Radian could move towards as well both for non-performing jumbo but also kind of alternative credit enhancement opportunities? Geoff I did know one of the things that at Radian we – that characterizes about and even did during the downturn as we operate with one foot in the present and one foot in the future.
So we did not shy away from making investments in our future even during the downturn and we continue to do that.
So we will look at all the opportunities related to positioning ourselves even more strongly to benefit from the private label RMBS market coming back those of our players who – team members who went to the ABS Conference in Las Vegas came back feeling that the mood was very positive that set those people always have a positive mood there’s more a question of when they need - right now we have the capacity to write that business from our existing entities.
But we will continuously look at whether that opportunity is best served through new entities and as you know we are a company that looks at the opportunity from private label it’s a very attractive opportunity and our core Clayton strategy is predicated on playing a big role in that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Which are the $60 million decline in the projected net for – short-fall of available assets by December of 2015 from $400 million to $350 million? Mainly that’s related to the additional eligible assets $24 million that Frank mentioned in its script related to the reinsurance agreement and the both the profit commission and the upfront ceding commission which are eligible PMIERs assets that’s most of it.
Okay great.
And in terms of Clayton how much cash was allocated to Radian Group from Clayton in the fourth quarter? So from Clayton to Radian Group approximately $4 million came from Clayton to Radian and that’s assuming also that they bore the full burden of the interest expense on their debt.
Okay.
And then it looks like cash assets remained in the $10 million range since the middle of last year.
Is that – should we expect capital requirements or cash requirements to increase as the business scales or is that kind of a run rate for your operating level at this time over the near term? So are you asking how much cash we expect to receive from Clayton to… Yes how much cash is required? I think that’s - well as far as the requirement there is no requirements.
We obviously have the debt service that’s allocated to them but any amount beyond that will really depend on their business results and needs.
Okay so generally though it’s not a capital intensive business? That’s correct.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from line of Steve Stimac with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Teresa I think I heard you mentioned that in respect to the FHA premium cuts that the private MI still win a decent chunk of business despite being higher priced because you offer sort of better execution to the originator.
To the extent that the Supreme Court may quantify the spread impact this term? Is that does in fact happen does it make it harder to compete on service on the execution and sort of forcing the industry to cut piece solely on premium vis-à-vis FHA? I think Steve I’m not sure I’m familiar with the Supreme Court decision that you’re referencing.
Could you maybe elaborate a little bit? Yes I think was a disparate impact challenge to HUDs the disparate impact rule this term they should be decided sometime this spring from last we’ve heard.
And so to extent that they sort of codify that rule does it make it harder to sort of compete on services and instead the borrower has to get the absolute cheapest execution not necessarily the quickest or best they just have to get the cheapest.
Is that a risk? I don’t think that that results in the borrower necessarily having to get the cheapest because I think there are number of things that go into that.
So for instance if I’m a borrower and I’m looking at what my loan options are I’m going to be thinking about the fact that at some point my premium is going to cancel if it is an MI loan and I’m not going to – and my payment is actually going to go down.
Right so there are number of different factors that could create a situation where a borrower may choose that they want to go that way a borrower could also say I want to put down 3% not 3.5% a borrower could say I don’t want to pay the upfront premium which is going to get financed in and I’m going to pay interest on it for the life of the loan.
So I think there are a number of different judgments and dynamics that a borrower can make and I don’t think that a decision on disparate impact is going to affect the ability for the borrower to choose the right product for him or her.
Great thank you.
And then just a follow-up on the singles I mean you mentioned that you like a mix of singles and monthlies how much of that is being also just sort of your current mix being driven by the originators or preferences as well as your own? Oh there is no question that it’s largely I think driven by the originators preference.
So you have some originators that use them very sparingly you have others that that’s a big part of the business that they have.
Sometimes that relates to the amount of refis that those lenders typically do versus purchase business.
So I think it’s driven by that quite a bit.
Having said that we consistently talk to lenders about the use of DP and having kind of a balanced.
Great thank you Teressa.
Sure.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen and this is the last question in the queue.
We’re turning the conference back over to S.A.
Ibrahim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you all for your questions.
And now I would like to before we end the call take a moment thank Bob for his exceptional contribution to Radian over a career that has spanned Radian’s entire life.
For the last ten years Bob worked at my side as our CFO in what can in historical terms be considered the most challenging times we’ve faced.
To all this Bob’s loyalty and dedication to Radian his commitment to putting our shareholders first his understanding of our customers and counterparties and his deep empathy for Radian employees helped us to overcome our challenges and cease opportunities that made us who we are today.
Towards all of these Bob’s sense of humor kept us from getting discouraged.
I don’t know how we could have made it without Bob.
I take comfort in knowing that Bob will be thoroughly enjoying more free time and that his legacy of building lasting relationships based on trust and unfaltering integrity will always be with us at Radian.
Thank you Bob we will surely miss you.
And thank you all for participating in our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Radian’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later they will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President Investor Relation Ms.
Emily Riley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian’s first quarter 2015 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian’s financial results for the quarter was issued earlier this morning and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release includes certain non-GAAP financial measure including a new non-GAAP measure introduced this quarter which will be discussed during today’s call.
A complete description of these measures and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release Exhibit F and on the Investors section of our website.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian’s Chief Executive Officer; and Franklin Hall Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guaranty; Joe D’Urso President of Clayton; and Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
I'm pleased to report on our first quarter as a simplified company with a clear strategic focus on our core strengths.
By let's begin by taking a look at what the last year has meant for Radian.
First we achieved our first full year profitability in 2014 since 2006 laying the groundwork for our first quarter and for future growth and profitability.
Second we acquired Clayton and successfully introduced our mortgage and real estate services segment.
Third we eliminated all of our exposure to a financial guarantee credit risk with the sale of asset and finally just two weeks ago we gained the clarity that the MI industry has been waiting for with the release of the final private mortgage insurer eligibility requirements of PMIERs and importantly announced our ability to immediately comply.
In addition to clarity these rules also brought capital belief when compared to the draft rules issued in July.
All-in-all the last 12 months have created a turning point for Radian.
With a clear focused on our core strength we are better positioned to leave our legacy exposure behind and drive long term value both from a larger and successful mortgage insurance business as well as by leveraging our strong relationships and our increased capabilities in broadening our future sources of revenue.
Turning to the quarter's results earlier today we reported net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2015 of $92 million or $0.39 per diluted share.
This compares to net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2014 of $146 million or $0.68 per diluted share.
You will find the key driver of GAAP EPS from last quarter on Slide 8 of our webcast presentation.
Book value per share at March 31 2015 was $11.53.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income was $124 million for the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of last year of $84 million.
Adjusted diluted net operating income per share for the first quarter of 2015 was $0.35.
Turning to the Mortgage Insurance segment we continued to grow and improve our Mortgage Insurance in force book which is the primary driver of future earnings for Radian.
We wrote $9.4 billion of new MI business in the first quarter an increase of 38% over the first quarter of last year.
While our insurance in force book grow only slightly in the quarter due primarily to high refi volume we expect to grow our insured book this year and over time.
The composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio continues to improve as the high quality and profitable new business we wrote since 2008 now represents 80% of our total mortgage primary mortgage insurance risk in force or 70% excluding HARP volume.
You may find these details on Slide 11.
While it remains difficult to project future NIW we are on track to write more new business in 2015 than we did in 2014 building on the higher first quarter 2015 NIW.
We continue successfully to add new customers with 33 new lenders delivering business to Radian in the first quarter.
We focus our product development initiatives on the growing purchase market of new homebuyers and earlier this month we launched Mortgage Assure a job lost protection product that is designed to encourage qualified but low down payment borrowers to make the lead to home ownership.
Concerned regarding job security is an important factor for borrowers in deciding whether to purchase a home and this product is intended to lessen this barrier-to-entry which clearly will benefit borrowers and Radian as well as addressing the significant industry challenge of getting more qualified first time buyers to participate in home ownership.
We purchase insurance from a third-party to provide this protection therefore there is no added credit risk to Radian.
Credit trends were outstanding in the first quarter due to a strong economy and the impact of seasonality.
The total number of primary delinquent loans declined by 11% from the fourth quarter of 2014 and by 24% from the same period last year.
On Slide 20 you can see that our primary default count decreased to 40 440 loans and our primary default rates fell to 4.6% as noted on Slide 21.
Slide 12 shows that for the first three months ended March 31 2015 the earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages of $150 million creates a strong start to the year with an expected run rate for the year that would exceed performance of these books.
Even last year the earned premium from the large and profitable books of business written after 2008 is expected to serve as the foundation for our profitable growth over the next several years.
Turning to our Mortgage and Real Estate Services segment.
First quarter total service revenues were $30.7 million and gross profits on services was $12.3 million.
Slide 26 provides a two-year trend for this business where you can see the quarterly fluctuation in revenue.
Overall we are pleased with the performance of this new segment which adds a diversified source of fee-based income revenue for Radian.
The products and services in our Mortgage and Real Estate Services segment broaden our participation in the residential mortgage market value chain with services that complement our MI business and deepen our relationships.
While we are in the early stage we are encouraged by customer response as we begin to gain traction in cross selling these services to our large and growing MI customer base.
In March Clayton acquired Red Bell Real Estate a real estate brokerage that provides products and services including AVM broker price opinions and advanced technology solutions for monitoring loan portfolio performance and valuing residential real estate through a secure platform.
The feedback from industry sources indicate that Red Bell is highly regarded and provides us with access to a wealth of data on real estate listings and sales that enhances the value of our Mortgage and Real Estate Services solutions.
Turning to several topics important to our Mortgage Insurance business the PMIERs were finalized and published nearly two weeks ago.
What's most important is that Radian would be able to immediately comply with the PMIER using only a portion of the existing holding company cash.
The PMIERs become effective on December 31 2015 which is good news for our industry that has been long waiting for the certainty that these rules help to provide.
We are pleased that many of the comments made by our industry were heard and answered including capital relief for the legacy loans that remained current through the worse economic downturn of our time.
Under the PMIERs a private mortgage insurers available assets must meet or exceeds its minimum required assets and we estimate that if we were to comply today we would need to contribute $330 million or less than half of our holding company cash.
By year-end this amount is expected to decrease modestly.
We are pleased to put this issue behind us.
Importantly we estimate that the PMIERs capital requirement for the business we are writing today would translate into a 14 to 1 risk to capital ratio for which we expect to generate an after-tax return in the low to mid-teens.
Another topic for our industry have been expected changes to LLPAs and G fees which were released in tandem with the PMIERs.
We continue to expect that private mortgage insurance will play a significant role in increasing low income and first time homeownership and that our product is priced competitively for the vast majority of business we write today and that business is typically above a 700 FICO and at LTVs to 90% to 95%.
The slight positive change made to the LLPAs with the removal of the adverse market fee was due very little to close the gap in pricing between conventional loans with MI and FSCS loans for higher LTV and lower FICO borrowers.
However we did see the credit box open slightly in the first quarter and we continue to capture business where we either don't have a pricing advantage or the advantage is very small.
From a home buyer's perspective private mortgage insurance has the added benefit of being automatically cancelled when the mortgage balance rate is 78% of the home's original value versus FHA insurance that is paid over the entire life of the loan.
In addition the FHAs upfront premium increases the borrowers’ loan amount which is another fixed life of loan cost adding to the home purchase amount.
Before I turn the call over to Frank let me emphasize.
We had a strong first quarter as a simplified company with a clear strategic focus on our core strengths with adjusted diluted net operating income of $0.35 per share and a book value of $11.53.
We received clarity in the regulatory environment with the release of the final PMIERs.
Radian is able to immediately comply using only a portion of our current holding company cash.
We acquired Red Bell a relatively small but data rich company that increases the breadth and depth of offerings from our Mortgage and Real Estate Services segment.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you S.A and good morning.
As S.A.
has mentioned our message strategy and financial performance are far simpler than in previous periods and will begin to illustrate our position of strength and excellence.
But before I share the results of the quarter I would like to address a few points of clarification to aid in the analysis of our results.
First we have introduced a new non-GAAP operating measure this quarter adjusted diluted net operating income per share which was $0.35 for the first quarter and represents our adjusted pre-tax operating income from Exhibit E tax affected using the quarter's effective tax rate of 33% for continuing operations.
This compares to our GAAP earnings-per-share of $0.39.
Our discontinued operations continued in the first quarter as the sale of our financial guarantee subsidiary closed on the first day of the second quarter April 1.
We reported approximately $500 000 in income from discontinued operations this quarter primarily as a result of adjustments to true up our estimated closing adjustments and transaction expenses.
Our segment income statements in Exhibit E have been enhanced and present additional detail by segregating the allocated corporate expenses and interest expense in the separate line items.
The presentation is intended to provide more transparency into the direct costs and contributions of the segments.
Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations is close to the 35% statutory rate.
Our blended tax rate on income from discontinued operations is close to 100% as we currently receive no benefit from our loss on sale for the quarter of $14 million due to our election to limit the amount of capital loss generated from a tax perspective.
And lastly the impact of our share count due to our convertible bonds is 48.6 million shares as shown on the Exhibit B.
Moving now to the drivers of our revenue.
New insurance written was $9.4 billion during the quarter compared to $10 billion last quarter and $6.8 billion in the first of 2014.
NIW levels were higher than expected this quarter even after taking into account typical seasonal reduction in volume but were improved primarily due to an increase in refinancing.
Refinancing represented 33% of volume this quarter compared to 22% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
This elevated level of refinancing also muted our insurance in force growth for the quarter.
We expect this level of refinances to come down and continue to expect our full year 2015 NIW and insurance in force to be higher than the full year 2014.
The elevated level of refinancing also contributed to an increase in our mix of singles this quarter which were 37% of our total NIW.
The mix of singles production is expected to vary over time as the market conditions that favor singles versus monthlies also varies.
As we consider the impact of this mix shift we are mindful of this production in the context of the total portfolio impact on returns and its risk characteristics.
Generally we have found that singles production levels of approximately one-third or less of our NIW volume are well absorbed into the portfolio and fit within the ranges of our target return and risk metrics.
If the market should demand a higher mix of singles over an extended period of time we may evaluate potential risk mitigation techniques to deal with the extension risk associated with single premium production.
With refinancing volume expected to decrease we also expect the level of singles to decrease to a level below one-third of our total new volume.
Primary insurance in force increased slightly to $172 billion during the quarter as new insurance written was mainly offset with runoff largely due to refinancing.
Likewise our 12 month persistency decreased from 84.2% in the fourth of 2014 to 82.6% in the first quarter of 2015 as noted on Exhibit N.
Annualized persistency for the quarter alone was approximately 80% and we expect persistency levels to increase for this quarterly low for the remainder of the year.
Earned premiums benefited significantly from refinancing activity as acceleration of single premiums earned primarily from cancellations increased approximately $8 million this quarter.
This acceleration of premiums enhanced the expected returns on our book of single premium business and is an illustration of why we prefer a mix of singles and monthlies in our portfolio.
Adjusting for the nonrecurring nature of this acceleration and the $9 million profit commission recognized on our fourth-quarter reinsurance agreement amendment earned premiums were flat relative to fourth quarter 2014.
Total services revenue for our Mortgage and Real Estate Services segment was $31 million for the fourth quarter as compared to $34 million in the fourth quarter and as illustrated on Slide 26 we're up approximately 10% from the same quarter a year ago.
The linked quarter decrease was partly driven by seasonality related to lower volumes in the first quarter and generally expected given fluctuations in revenues experienced in this business as presented in a broad historical context on Slide 26.
The transactional nature of these businesses contribute to greater volatility in revenue.
Moving now to our loss provision and credit quality; the loss ratio was 20% this quarter as compared to 37% in the fourth quarter of last year and 25% in the first quarter of last year.
We observed typical first-quarter seasonality improvement in new default which decreased 15% over new defaults in the first quarter of last year as well as positive development of approximately $20 million as a result of a decrease in our default to claim rate on new defaults from 16% to 15%.
This decrease was driven by an observed decline in recent trends and as a reminder assumption adjustments to our reserve model are made after sufficient experience has been observed to support the change.
This results in either positive or negative development in our reserves which would also impact our loss provision in the quarter of the change.
Cumulative incurred loss ratios of business written after 2008 remain extremely low and are presented on new webcast Slide 14.
2009 is less than 20% and the years 2010 and 2011 after significant development are still below 10%.
Our newer books of business in 2012 and subsequent years still remain below 5%.
And as noted in the table on Slide 14 this trend continues into our most recent quarter.
Primary mortgage insurance delinquency ratio is 4.6% in the first quarter compared to 5.2% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
After receiving GSE approval of our BofA Settlement Agreement we began the implementation of the settlement on February 1.
Approximately $99 million of claims paid were related to this settlement and are footnoted on Slide 20.
We expect the total of approximately $250 million to be paid out in the first half of the year related to this settlement.
Our expected paid claims for the full year remain at $600 million to $700 million.
Moving now to expenses.
Other operating expenses for the quarter were $55 million as compared $86 million last quarter and $55 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The fourth quarter included several items related to compensation accruals including an increase on the stock price that affected our cash settled stock based awards and an $11 million settlement of remedies related to services provided on legacy business.
We are continually evaluating opportunities for ongoing efficiency and improvements in our expenses.
And finally I will turn to the discussion on capital.
Final PMIERs financial requirements were released by FHFA on April 17 and given the significant revisions from the proposed requirements we expect to be able to immediately comply by utilizing approximately $330 million of our existing holding company liquidity of approximately $700 million.
The improvement in the PMEIRs financial requirements was primarily related to legacy loans originated in 2005 through 2008 and not on requirements for new business.
We continue to expect our after tax returns to be in the low to mid-teens on new business.
Our return estimates are based on among other factors the use of reinsurance investment returns our capital structure loss estimates expected mix of business and the level of delinquencies.
While the utilization of reinsurance can enhance the percentage returns on our insurance business it is detrimental to both topline revenue and overall earnings-per-share for our shareholders.
Therefore we will be selective on when and how to utilize reinsurance as an enhancement to returns versus as a risk mitigation strategy to address concentrations in our portfolio.
The clarity provided by PMIERs has an impact on our ongoing capital planning and will provide valuable insights when optimizing our plans.
Reinsurance will focus on optimizing risk exposure in the overall portfolio our capital structure will focus on lowering the overall cost of capital and enhancements that may facilitate rating agency improvements.
We expect to maintain sufficient holding company liquidity to address strategic priorities and additionally we expect to receive modest dividends from our services segment after funding of the interest expense on our 2019 senior debt.
But as these are growth businesses by nature they may require some further support to the extent they pursue additional growth initiatives either organically or through acquisition.
As a reminder our fee based businesses are an important part of our strategy and represented diversification of our revenues and are more capital efficient than our legacy insurance businesses.
We have been very pleased with the performance of our services segment on a standalone basis and additionally by the way in which we are able to leverage our relationships with our institutional clients both with mortgage insurance and other services.
And now we will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Could you talk about what if any buffer you don't want to hold on day one kind of over your minimum required assets? This is Frank that's a great question.
And I would tell you that that question among others are going to be addressed in the context of the overall capital planning exercise that I spoke up so that is certainly something that we'll keep in mind and something that is important as we look at the final PMIERs rules and the expected timing on which they may adjust some of their requirement.
So it will all be included in that overall capital planning exercise but great question.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Given how firm the reinsurance market are here are you thinking at all about potentially -- comments aside about how your reinsurance is kind of dilutive to the topline? About potentially adding a little more reinsurance as opposed to having to push cash down at the Holdco that you could use for other purposes? Sure.
This is Frank again.
I would again put that in the context of the overall capital planning but as we do have significant relief from the final PMIERs rules really the way we're looking at reinsurance is really a risk optimization process in our portfolio but it's certainly something that we will evaluate and not take off the table.
Okay.
And then finally for S.A.
are the thing you're hearing about to the cancel of the FHFA will be launching a pilot program for deeper MI.
Yes and we've been hearing that and Teresa will answer that more fully.
Yeah.
This is Teresa.
Certainly there have been continued discussions with the FHFA and the GSEs and one of the important pieces for having that further discussion is been getting the PMIERs behind us so that there would be no question about the ability of MI to support deeper cover.
The MBA has continued to really advance this and they said they're going to continue to do that particularly now that the final PMIERs are out.
So that dialogue is continuing.
I don't know at this point you know what the next step will be yet but we're certainly continuing to have those discussions.
And Mark as you know we've been advancing the argument for MIs to play a bigger role in terms of deeper coverage and broader role in the industry.
Now with the counterparty strength issues for MI being -- having being addressed with the PMIERs we are in a stronger position to keep advancing their argument and hopefully we'll see progress in Washington hardest it is to predict.
Okay but no sense that everything is eminent here? I wouldn't say that there's anything eminent at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Bose George representing KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
First just on operating expenses can you talk about the run rate for the expense ratio? Also just the number this quarter was -- was there any reallocation the comment you mentioned earlier that from different segment side impact of the expense ratio? The first question as far as effective run rate absence the unusual items that we called out on quarter-over-quarter comparison that this is about where we will be operating with some I would say slight fluctuation perhaps up or down depending on the results of our efficiency evaluation initiatives but it is a fairly normalized quarter that we expect.
And then your question on segments again please.
Yeah.
I was just wondering whether there was any corporate reallocation of expenses that drove the low expense ratio at all or was it just the same as last quarter.
No the present I mean the allocation methodologies remained unchanged this quarter relative to the prior quarter.
Great thanks.
Then actually just going over to Slide 14 if I just look at that it looks like some of the years pretty seasoned stuff like 2010 seems to be peaking at very low loss ratios can be sort of extrapolate from that at least for the 2010 to 2014 books in terms of those loss ratios presumably remaining very low? Derek can answer that Bose we're very encouraged by that.
Derek? Yes I agree.
I mean looking at those trends obviously there has been a benefit there in terms of ratably appreciating home prices and interest rates being low which actually impacts prepaid but looking at that and kind of assuming this current economic environment when I look at 2010 to 2012 I'm seeing those trend into probably the upper single digit certainly the single digit 2013 to 2014 it's still early in its development but looking at that I think that's trending below 15% and those could be also as well I would say in the upper single digits.
Again that's going to be dependent upon economic development obviously to see a downturn that's going to put some stress on those.
And Bose we added this slide because we were hearing from our investors from people like you that you needed more information to see how this -- these trends were developing.
Yeah absolutely that's extremely useful.
Thanks.
And actually just last one just on the FHA.
When the price reduction happened earlier in the year I think you guys had said something like 20% of your volume was kind of on the cost where FHA might have an advantage.
Now its several months of competition you have the new prices do you have a feel for what the real impact has been over the last couple of months? Teresa? Yeah.
We haven't seen much of an impact in fact at this point.
And based on sort of the market intelligence we've been able to get it seems as if the focus has been on refinancing existing FHA loan.
I think the fact that as S.A.
mentioned in his remarks the fact that there is still cancellation with respect to the MI which gives consumer an advantage later in the loan cycle and the fact that it was especially with MI conventional MI you can move forward with not having additional MIPs factored into your loan amount which you're going to pay over the life of the loan.
I think those things are helping us but so far it doesn't appear that there has been any major impact at all from that change.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question today comes from line of Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just one follow-up on some of the commentary about the premium this quarter I think you mentioned that there was a $8 million benefit from single premium cancellation and perhaps $9 million profit commission that you had in this quarter.
So I was just curious what the I guess run rate for the premium rate would be going forward if I adjust for those I get somewhere closer to 48 basis points? So keep in mind the $9 million was a fourth quarter last year event so that was the fourth quarter.
Now the $8 million is the adjustment you would make to the current quarter.
Got it okay.
So in terms of the quarter to quarter fluctuation going forward is this been just the -- if you were to adjust for the $8 million in this quarter that's a pretty good run? I think so yes.
Okay great.
And then I guess as you think about the profitability of Clayton moving forward how can we see the margins of that business develop either the non-agency market comes back or as you work through some of these efficiency processes? Joe why don't you answer that? Yeah.
Thanks Eric.
I think that certainly the non-agency market coming back would significantly impact both growth and revenue as well as kind of the overall efficiencies.
We think that that's not coming this year maybe not anytime soon but certainly that will be a significant impact.
We also have a number of internal processes around technology and process improvement that we think will increase our margins and make us more efficient and certainly the acquisition of Red Bell and some of the great technology that they have will certainly help Clayton processes around some of our REO management as well as some of our valuation management and that'll also make us more efficient and increase our margins.
This is Frank.
I would just also add to that.
Keep in mind that that particular segment has more of a variable cost structure associated with it so as revenues grow you'll see the margin expand in that business a bit as the incremental expenses are associated with incremental revenue as well.
Okay great.
And then just lastly.
Is there anything you can share on the competitive environment you're seeing on the single premium business and what the discount might have been versus your rate card this quarter? Teresa? Yeah I mean I think that we've continued to see some competitiveness in this regard and it'll be interesting to see what happens as the FHFA and the GSE's have indicated that they're going to make some adjustment to the PMIERs for business going forward in respect to single premium business.
So -- but we don't comment on sort of the amount at a discount.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Mackenzie Kelley representing Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
I kind of wanted to talk about Radian's market share overall in the industry.
It looks like although the growth was strong it was maybe not as robust as some of the other companies that have reported thus far have shown so just kind of wanted to get your perspective on how you think Radian's market share develops during the quarter? And more importantly going forward coming off of last year's share loss is it a priority to grow market share at this point and how do you think about that going forward? It's hard to estimate market share because I don't believe everybody has reported yet.
But from what we can tell we should be stable to better than we were and we'll find out when the market share numbers come out.
Our philosophy in terms of market share is really it's one of the things we look at but our philosophy is more to act in what we believe is in the best interest of our shareholders and that goes towards finding the right balance between the business we write in terms of short-term profitability as well as the long term profitability of the relationships we have.
We want to continue to deliver long-term value in our relationships and we might pull up short-term profitability.
And as you saw in the last quarter we actually did a pretty good job of balance that.
We have competitively very decent short-term profitability and we have very strong relationship which can continue to benefit us in the future.
Okay great.
And just a follow-up on that on the 33 new lenders that you noted where new to delivering business this quarter.
What type of lenders are those are those kind of smaller regional can you give any color there? Teresa do you want to answer that? I think we continue to focus on everything from large to small lenders though that is kind of a combination of different sizes.
And as we continue that we see a mix of what we're adding on a quarter-to-quarter basis it might change but we continue to focus on their large prospects as well as smaller prospects.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling and Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First question do you have any relationships where your singles business is more than 50% of the business you're getting from a customer? Maybe a very small number but that's it.
Geoff we don't generally comment on anything relationship specific there.
So the color we've given is probably the best we can do for you.
I just wonder because you talk about it being a balanced portfolio business but its low ROE business so I just want to make sure that if you had a sizable amount of customers if that was the case I'd want to understand more how you approach that portfolio of balancing.
The other question in the pool business I think you saw some more positive development this quarter and you saw a pretty material development last year what continues to drive that positive development? In terms of the pool some of them is just natural run off.
We also had a reduction in just the pool exposure.
Again looking at pool exposure it's predominantly pre-2005.
So again that's experienced a lot of credit burnout and we continue to reduce the size of it over time as it runs off.
Okay.
And then last question as we think about the pace of potential incidents such assumption improvement on the new notices.
What do you think is a reasonable assumption given the trends you've seen you lowered I think by a point this quarter.
On an annual basis what's a reasonable shift in that as we continue to see credit improvement? So looking at past history I think that you could see potential assuming you see the trend developing as we've seen in the past I would say on an annual basis 1 maybe 2 percentage points you could see on kind of the high-end.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Geoff.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my call.
On the return commentary mid to low teens is that of the insurance company and does it take into account any potential Holdco leverage? So generally what we've the list of considerations that we've mentioned certainly does consider the capital structure of the organization and potential reinsurance which is why we're comfortable with that range the low to mid-teens really varies widely based on your assumption there.
But it's not factoring in leverage at all Holdco.
That's correct.
It's not? It is not at this point.
Okay and on reserving -- reserve per you know net new development increased again this quarter I believe to 11.8000 [ph] and if we look at the reserving per -- in the early stage it said I believe 13 000 which is the highest since you began reporting.
Is there anything going on on that and that is really the Bank of America settlement it's just -- at this point of cycle you would think the reserve per initial default would be declining not increasing? This is Derek.
So in terms of looking at new defaults overall reserve per default has been increasing.
What that have to do with is the distribution of the default.
So over time the distribution of the defaults you have relatively more of them that has been delinquent for a longer period of time or they're in for closure stage which means they have a higher defaults and claim rate so that's driving the average up.
In terms of new defaults I'd point out that 15% that we disclosed that applies to brand new default so in this case essentially March default and then what you do is that's an ultimate rate and then you adjust the conditional rate each month.
So as the distribution of default become more aged it just increases over time the per default research.
Great.
But if I look at reserves per delinquency on three month or less that increased interestingly about 13.9000 which is the highest since… That's right and what's driving that again that has a blended rate.
So what we're seeing with respect to that is you have a pretty high cure rate on the brand new defaults particularly in the first quarter which you'll kind of see in our chart in terms of kind of two to three month payment bucket.
So then what you have to do we're still applying a new conditional rate for those that have been in default maybe for a month or two and that increases.
So again it's going even in that bucket the new defaults you have a distribution.
You have some that have been in default for one month two month and three months so it's that distribution that could change and also you have to some extent just the size of the loans that are coming into basically the default stage there can be some variability with respect to that.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And our next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I have a question about your severely aged primary loans and defaults the 12 payment or more bucket.
I am just wondering if you could qualitatively describe what's going on there because it seems that that number has stayed elevated for a long time and just wondering what you're seeing in terms of claims.
Do you think these are going to be paid at a slower rate than historically our lenders is not presenting claims.
I am just wondering what's going on there? We have a combination again with respect to that.
We have new loans moving in there.
Generally I think the foreclosure process has been elongated so I would expect over time looking at it at least historically you are going to probably have more of your default distribution probably in that 12 month bucket.
I would say in terms of trend it's been pretty stable I would say over the last two year so when we look at kind of the incremental defaults and incremental cures and again you see cures coming out of that bucket I mean this quarter in terms of the 12 flat it was 4.5% and that's been a pretty steady trend and really our reserve is based upon that.
So what we're seeing in terms of defaults and cures coming into that bucket.
So that's like I said have been pretty stable.
Okay.
And just if I could come back to singles one more time so I could summarize your thinking.
In the first quarter singles made up a larger percentage than you would want to have over a longer term it's a little more than a third but because you expect the pace of refis to decline you expect the relative contribution of singles to decline? That's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harter representing Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
My questions have been asked and answered.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go the line of Jack Micenko's line with SIG.
Please go ahead.
Frank wondering if you could talk about the assumption on the loss ratio underlying that low-to mid-teens or the comment you made I mean looking at Slide 14 which like you for including by the way pretty wide disparity of outcomes there.
So wondering what the sort of rule of thumb number you guys are using in that commentary? In terms of our loss ratio the back end of that return essentially in terms of new business it's roughly 15% to 20%.
Again these trends on recent vintages are developing below that and when we're looking at our loss ratio we're looking at a little more like through the cycle basis.
So again these newer vintages have benefitted from I think a very strong economic environment.
But kind of a run rate on new business I would say roughly 15% to 20% range.
Okay thank you.
And then now that PMIERs is behind us and assuming capital buffer all that other stuff.
Can you remind us of the converts if there's anything you can do there with cash and would you be willing to do something you know prospectively around those issues to maybe decrease some of the dilution impact? We're looking at all options and Frank… Right.
No that's exactly right.
And looking at all the options associated with the converts -- the premium settlement there is the option to settle in shares or cash but all of those variables are being considered in the overall planning exercise.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question today comes from the line of Steve Stimac with FBR.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Maybe last question on the singles but to the extent that the FHFA or -- and the GSEs come out with a rule in June that just makes that product uneconomic for the industry or uneconomically attractive for the industry.
How much of your single premium will toggle over to monthlies.
And how much of that production percentage terms would toggle over to FHA or some other form of credit enhancement any ideas on that? The specifics of that are hard to project.
There is a likely scenario where the FHFA comes out with thoughtful guidelines we could see a reduction in the availability of singles in the industry and the likelihood that some of that business would turn into monthlies because the lenders would then not have the same access to singles from the insurers.
The assumption that the majority of those singles would convert to monthlies or would they sort of convert to FHA or similar form of credit enhancement what's the view? It is hard to act to that specifically but there is a scenario under which there could be a meaningful conversion which we are hopeful for.
Great thank you guys.
And next we'll go to the line of Darren Marcus with MKM Partners.
Please go ahead.
I was just curious first on the effective tax rate of about 33.3% is that a good rate to use going forward or is there anything that you guys just thinking about to potentially lower that? I think generally that's a good rate certainly for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
And then with respect to holding company cash you guys have a lot more now than you might have thought you would have had you know several months ago before PMIERs.
So just wondering on what your thoughts are there and how to deploy that or anything? Sure.
So as I mentioned in the comments it's something that they were considering in the overall capital planning exercise.
Want to be mindful of maintaining enough holding company liquidity to take advantage of strategic opportunities but sensitive to the impact it has on the returns of the business overall.
Okay.
And then one final one.
I think Frank you mentioned in the prepared remarks that there were potential risk mitigating techniques on the singles risk extension.
Can you elaborate on that I'm just wondering what that entails? Sure.
So we're looking at a couple of different things but I would say the most obvious one is reinsurance.
And so we would evaluate that with some other things but in a general way that would be it.
Okay.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today.
The last 12 months have been a turning point for Radian as I mentioned earlier.
Our strong results in the quarter are an excellent start as we pursue -- as a simplified company with a clear strategic focus on our core strength and relationships.
We look forward to reporting our progress in the quarters ahead.
Thank you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentleman that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Radian Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications Ms.
Emily Riley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's second quarter 2015 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier this morning and is posted to the investor section of our website at www.Radian.biz.
This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures which will be discussed during today's call.
A complete description of these measures and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release exhibit F and G and on the investors section of our website.
During today's call you will from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer and Frank Hall Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guarantee; Joe D'Urso President of Clayton; Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group; and Cathy Jackson Corporate Controller.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
I am pleased to share with you today the results of our second quarter which includes strong performance for our two business segments.
Following my comments Frank will cover the details of our financial position including our most recent actions to strengthen our capital structure.
Then I will summarize a few key points before opening the call to your questions.
Turning to the quarter's results earlier today we reported net income for the second quarter of 2015 of $50 million or $0.22 per diluted share.
This compares to net income for the second quarter of 2014 of $175 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
You will find the key drivers of GAAP EPS on slide 8 of our webcast presentation.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income was $147 million for the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of last year of $74 million.
Adjusted diluted net operating income per share for the second quarter of 2015 was $0.40 an increase of 74% over the same period last year.
Turning to the mortgage insurance segment we continue to improve the composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio which is a primary driver of future earnings for Radian.
We wrote $11.8 billion of new MI business in the second quarter an increase of 26% over the second quarter of last year.
In the first half of 2015 we wrote a total of $21.1 billion in NIW a 31% increase over the $16.1 billion written in the first half of 2014.
The composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio continues to improve as the high quality and profitable new business we wrote since 2008 represents 82% of our total primary mortgage insurance risk enforced or 72% excluding HARP volume.
You may find these details on slide 13.
We continue to successfully add new customers with 42 new lenders delivering business to Radian in the second quarter.
To support business growth we increased our sales team by 7 in 2015 and further expanded our focus on today's changing home buyer demographics.
Nearly 75% of the new households formed over the next 10 years I expected to come from diverse segments of America.
Therefore we entered into our current exclusive partnership with one of the trade associations focused on these growing communities.
Adding to our existing partnerships with the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals and the National Association of Real Estate Brokers the nation's leading trade groups focused on future homebuyers in the Hispanic and African-American communities Radian is now the only mortgage insurance partner for the Asian Real Estate Association of America.
We added a dedicated consultant to our sales team focused solely on enhancing Radian's commitment to the Asian community.
In addition we created a new support structure that is laser focused on the unique needs of our trade union customers their members and trade associations including two national account managers with extensive experience in credit union lending.
This is an important and growing segment of Radian's business.
Turning to the current environment the outstanding credit trends from the first quarter continued into the second due to a strong economy and impact of seasonality.
The total number of primary delinquent loans declined by 7% from the first quarter of 2015 and by 23% from the same period last year.
On slide 22 you can see that our primary [indiscernible] account decreased to 37 676 loans and our primary deport rate fell to 4.3% as noted on slide 23.
On slide 14 the one that many of you have heard me call my favorite slide you will see that for the first six months ended June 30 2015 earned premiums left incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages were $318 million compared to $227 million for the six months ended June 30 2014.
Importantly the expected run rate for 2013 would far exceed performance of these newer books of business for even last year.
As you know the earned premium for the large and profitable book to business written after 2008 is expected to serve as the foundation for growth in profits over the next several years.
Turning to our mortgage and real estate services segment second quarter total revenues were $45 million and gross profit was $19 million.
Slide 29 provides a historical trend for the segment where you can see that this quarter's revenue was a record since the acquisition of Clayton and for the past two years.
Revenue in the quarter included $5 million from Clayton's newest subsidiary Red Bell Real Estate a real estate brokerage that provides a variety of products and services including ADMs broker price opinions and advanced technology to value and sell residential real estates.
Clayton and its subsidiaries are strong stand-alone businesses that provide a diversified source of fee-based revenue for Radian.
Clayton launched a new active representation reviewer service in the second quarter to help issuers of ABS comply with the requirements of the SEC's amendments to Regulation AB.
This service allows the company to expand into new asset classes including auto finance credit cards student loans and equipment-facing issuers.
And while we remain in the early stages of this marketing effort we're encouraged by the interest among our many MI customers in the many products offered by our services segment.
We look forward to leveraging the value of our diversified product portfolio to a large and growing MI customer base.
Turning to the regulatory and legislative topics important to our mortgage insurance business as we discussed during the last earnings call the P Myers becomes effective on December 31 2015.
Under the P Myers a private mortgage insurance available asset must meet or exceed its minimum required assets and we estimate that Radian is positioned to immediately comply using only a portion of our holding company cash.
By year end we expect that the growth in Radian's available assets will outpace the projected increase in our minimum required assets.
And therefore the amount we would need to contribute should decrease.
Last month the GSE issued an update to the P Myers that included increased capital charges for lender-paid mortgage insurance for LTMI business based on the lack of automatic cancellation for such loans.
These changes go into effect next year on prospective business and we're currently reviewing the impact on returns both for the LPMI product and the overall portfolio.
Importantly based on the P Myers capital requirements for the business we're writing today we continue to expect to generate after-tax returns in the low to mid-teens.
We also continue to actively engage with key policymakers in Washington and hear resounding support for the important role of private capital including private mortgage insurance in the future of housing finance.
Debate on GSE reform continues as do discussions on front-end risk sharing including deeper MI coverage that could further protect the GSEs from risk and provide an opportunity to our industry to increase its level of credit protection.
While discussions are in early stages we're encouraged by the support and opportunity that these risk-sharing options support the administration's goal of reducing the risk of the GSEs and ultimately the taxpayers as well as lowering cost to borrowers.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you S.A.
and good morning.
First I will share the financial results and highlights for the quarter and then close my remarks today with an overview of the capital actions we took in June including a debt offering and accelerated share repurchase.
Our objective for these capital actions was to lower Radian's overall cost of capital simplify our capital structure and ultimately facilitate future rating agency improvements.
Before I get into the details of our results I would like to address a few points of clarification to aid in the analysis of these results.
We recognized approximately $7.8 million of deferred investment gains in Radian assets which generated additional income from discontinued operations which is not expected to occur.
Our segment income statements in Exhibit E present additional detail by segregating the allocated corporate expenses and interest expense in the separate line items.
This presentation is intended to provide more transparency into the direct costs and contributions of the segments.
Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations is higher this quarter at approximately 43.5% due to the tax treatment of certain debt extinguishment costs.
Absent those items the effective tax rate would've been approximately 35% or equivalent to the statutory rate.
And lastly the impact to our share count from our capital activities in the quarter will be an increase of approximately 2.8 million fully diluted shares as shown on slide 11 of our earnings webcast assuming the average share price under the accelerated share repurchase program is $18.68.
If the average share price is higher fewer shares will be delivered back to Radian; and if lower more shares will be delivered back to Radian by the ASR counterpart.
Moving now to the drivers of our revenue new insurance written was $11.8 billion during the quarter compared to $9.4 billion last quarter and $9.3 billion in the second quarter of 2014.
Refinancing decreased as expected to 23% of volume this quarter compared to 33% last quarter and increased from 13% a year ago.
While it remains difficult to project future NIW we're on track to write more new business in 2015 than we did in 2014 building on our strong NIW in the first half of this year.
Total single premium business represented 32% of our total NIW in the second quarter a decline from 37% in the first quarter.
We continue to monitor our product mix of singles versus monthly premium and currently believe that singles production levels of approximately 1/3 or less of our NIW volume are well-absorbed into the portfolio over time and fit within the ranges of our target return and risk metrics.
Primary insurance enforced increased to $172.7 billion during the quarter as new insurance written was offset with runoffs due to refinancing and the $1.7 billion impact of a GSE servicer data reconciliation performed during the quarter to reconcile enforced policies with outstanding loans.
Our twelve-month persistency declined from 82.6% in the first quarter of 2015 to 80.1% in the second quarter of 2015 as noted on Exhibit M primarily due to the prepayments of single-premium policies in the first and second quarter of 2015.
Earned premiums again benefited from refinancing activity and from the acceleration of single premiums earned primarily from the previously mentioned servicer data reconciliation.
Acceleration of premiums enhances the returns on our book value of single-premium business and is an illustration of why we prefer a mix of singles and monthlies in our portfolio.
Earned premiums were also positively impacted by an approximate $6 million accrual associated with the expected fourth quarter clawback of an existing quota share reinsurance arrangement.
Adjusting for these items earned premiums were relatively flat to the first quarter of 2015.
Investment income was up due to the approximate $790 million of sale proceeds of Radian asset being utilized in our investment portfolio for a full quarter versus in prior quarters where the investment income attributable to Radian asset remained in discontinued operations.
The impact of this change was approximately $2 million.
The overall yield in the investment portfolio decreased from 2.21% to 1.99% in the quarter which reflects the short-term nature of the near-term reinvestment and the sale of dividend-paying equity securities to comply with the available asset requirements of P Myers.
The portfolio yield is expected to increase in subsequent quarters as we reevaluate our portfolio in the context of a new operating environment.
Total services revenue for our mortgage and real estate services segment was $45 million for the quarter as compared to $32 million in the first quarter and as illustrated on slide 29 increased approximately 23% from the same quarter a year ago.
The increase in the quarter was partially due to the recent acquisition of Red Bell; but even excluding the Red Bell acquisition services revenues were very strong.
As we've mentioned previously we expect fluctuations in revenues in this business as the transactional nature of these businesses contribute to greater volatility in revenue.
Moving now to loss provision and credit quality the loss ratio was 13.3% this quarter as compared to 20.4% in the first quarter and 31.7% in the second quarter of last year.
Approximately 80% of new notices in the quarter were repeat defaults.
We observed further improvements in new defaults which decreased 13% over new defaults in the second quarter of last year as well as positive development of approximately $28 million as a result of a decrease in our default-to-claim rate on new defaults from 15% down to 14%.
This decrease was driven by an observed decline in recent trends.
And as a reminder assumption adjustments to our reserve model are made after sufficient experiences has been observed to support the change.
This results in either positive or negative developments in our reserves which would also impact our loss provisions in the quarter of a change.
Cumulative incurred loss ratios of business written after 2008 remain extremely low and are presented on webcast slide 16.
Primary mortgage insurance delinquency ratio was 4.3% in the second quarter compared to 4.6% in the first quarter of 2015.
We began implementation of our Bank of America settlement agreement in the first quarter of 2015 and in the second quarter approximately $76 million of claims paid were related to the settlement which is footnoted on slide 20.
For the first half of the year we paid a total of $175 million related to the settlement of an estimated $250 million total.
Our expected paid claims for the full year remain at $600 million to $700 million inclusive of the Bank of America settlement.
Moving now to expenses other operating expenses for the quarter were $68 million as compared to $54 million last quarter and $61 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Operating expenses in the second quarter of 2015 were primarily driven by variable compensation expenses related to long-term incentive awards divested in June of 2015 operating expenses related to newly acquired Red Bell Real Estate and an increase in mortgage insurance-related expense due to higher volumes.
Both Red Bell and the mortgage insurance volume increases correspond with higher revenue.
As a reminder with the recent vesting in June of our last significant cash-based LTI award variable compensation expenses tied to changes in our stock price should be very limited going forward.
We're continually evaluating opportunities for ongoing efficiencies and improvements in our expenses.
And finally I will turn to the discussion on capital.
The capital activities we undertook in the second quarter are part of our ongoing effort to reduce our overall cost of capital improve our maturity profile and head down a path toward improving our credit ratings.
This series of transactions in the second quarter involve a new five-year debt offering of approximately $350 million with a coupon 5.25% a series of negotiated redemptions of our 2017 convertible securities totaling approximately $390 million and an accelerated share repurchase program.
Collectively these transactions enhanced our cost of capital by approximately 40 basis points and improved our overall capital position.
Included in our earnings release information on slide 11 is an overview of the transactions and their related impact on our financials.
Most notably is the pre-tax loss of $92 million related to the early disposition of our convertible securities.
This loss is comprised of two elements.
First approximately $56 million that effectively represents an acceleration of the discount associated with the difference between a coupon of 3% on the redeemed 2017 convertible notes and the effective GAAP interest expense of 9.75%.
The second component is the premium of $36 million paid to the holders of the convertible notes.
From an economic perspective the accelerated discount is simply a timing difference in recognition of effective interest expense.
As for the premium we evaluated the total impact of these transactions in the context of the increasing dilution that the 2017 convertible securities were likely to create as our share price increases.
The premium paid represents a value to Radian shareholders if the common shares of Radian appreciate more than $1.00 between issue date and November 2017.
As we're excited about our prospects we're hopeful that will be the case.
The accelerated share repurchase program or ASR supported an efficient transaction for our convertible holders in that we were able to deliver shares in cash in an amount approximately equivalent to their hedged positions without materially increasing our share count.
Simply stated the combination of these transactions will reduce our ongoing interest expense by approximately $16 million per year and as previously noted would increase our share count by only 2.8 million shares.
Final P Myers financial requirements were released by FHSA on April 17 and given the significant revisions from the proposed requirements we expect to be able to immediately comply by utilizing a portion of our existing holding company liquidity of approximately $735 million.
The additional guidance provided on lender-paid mortgage insurance is currently being evaluated and we will provide more information on that recent development in the coming quarters.
I will now turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Frank.
Before we open the call to your questions let me emphasize.
First I'm pleased with the strong operating performance of both of our business segments in the second quarter.
Second I am encouraged by the signs that the positive trends driving this strong performance should continue creating opportunity for near-term growth.
And finally I'm excited about the future prospects for Radian including the potential for our mortgage insurance segment to play a larger role as a proven private capital participant in the evolving future housing finance market and for our services segment to benefit from increased securitization activity in the future.
Now operator we would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of Eric Beardsley from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just on the mortgage insurance operating expense how much of the step up from first quarter would you attribute to the stock-based comp and now is I guess gone away in terms of the incentive plan? And then how much was volume-driven? Sure.
So of the expenses we consider about $7 million or so to be related to the operating expenses that are tied to the revenue.
And the rest of it would be related to long-term incentive stock compensation and other compensation-related items.
And the absolute dollar amount of the long-term incentive was how much this quarter? All of the compensation-related items totaled about $7 million.
And then just on the Clayton and Red Bell business what kind of pre-tax margin should we think about in that going forward? Sure.
I think the margins that we're showing now in that 40 range is a good range to be thinking about for that business.
As we have increased the revenues and had better utilization of our employees across the new business I think that's a pretty stable range for those margins to be in.
And then just lastly is there any impact that we will see from the 4Q 2015 callback of the reinsurance? Beyond the accrual that we recognized this quarter? Yes.
In terms of go forward I know it's actually a relatively small piece of reinsurance.
I was just wondering if there was any financial impact we should be aware of moving forward.
Also if there is any other opportunities to do that.
Yes.
There is an expected ongoing benefit of that of roughly $2 million or so.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Sorry if I missed this but the average premium for the quarter had jumped up.
I'm assuming that's related to elevated prepaids on the singles and accelerated realization.
Is that accurate? And if so could you give us a sense of what the run rate should be going forward? Yes it certainly impacted the premium rate in the quarter.
We can't give you much guidance on the run rate going forward.
That's just not a number that we have historically disclosed.
But I think you could expect to see some reversion to the mean as the refis abate a bit and the refi would lessen over time.
Okay.
But was that the cause of most of the sequential quarter increase in the average premium? Yes it was.
Okay.
And then the second question just trying to get a sense of remaining holdco cash after you push down the $330 million to meet P Myers.
Is there additional dry powder there to take some more accretive capital actions? Well we certainly only need a portion of the holding company liquidity to address P Myers and the capital accretion if you will I would say is evaluated in the context of our overall capital planning activity.
So I wouldn't expect anything to remain status quo especially in the context of our 2019 convertibles on a potential call date in March of 2016.
Okay.
So that would be your -- it sounds like that's your priority for use of additional excess cash at the holdco.
Well keep in mind also as we evaluate P Myers compliance we need to look at cushions both at the operating company and also the holding company.
So I wouldn't want to lead you to believe that we will utilize the holding company cash down to zero.
We do expect to maintain a cushion as we have said in the past for strategic opportunities and just for management of the business and dealing with any potential capital needs at the subsidiaries.
Okay.
And any updated thoughts you can share on how big of a cushion you think you need to have at both the holdco and the writing companies? Not at this time for P Myers and we're still working through some of those calculations.
In the measurement data P Myers compliance is a little bit unusual in that we need to be compliant as of the date.
So we do need to hold a cushion at the operating subsidiary.
For the parent company again there are broader considerations that we think about maintaining a cushion again for strategic needs for just managing our debt maturities and other things.
And we have a question from Bose George from KBW.
In terms of the single premium market share for the industry do you think there was any change? Or was this decline that was seen just driven by the decline in refis? I think what we saw -- the decline on a linked quarter basis was primarily refi-driven as we saw the refis come down as well.
And then just switching to the comment you guys made on future yields on the portfolio can you just elaborate on that? Could you be considering changes in the duration or just any cost there? Yes so what we said Bose on that is expected returns in the low to mid-teens -- sorry just on the investment portfolio yield.
Oh I'm sorry.
Yes I would expect to see an increase especially as we extend duration a little bit there as expected.
Wouldn't want to guide you too much on a specific number.
Okay.
And then just actually one follow-up just on the deep MI comment do you think we could see a pilot program business unit? Let's have Teresa address that question Bose.
I think she's the closest to it.
Yes Bose.
There is a lot of work going on around this but I don't know that we would expect to see one this year.
It's possible.
Certainly the FHSA has asked the GSEs to do more to expand what they are doing from a risk-sharing perspective and work is being done to look at what that might look like.
But given the fact that we're almost into August I think it's probably a fairly low probability for this year maybe more for next year.
We have a question from the line of MacKenzie Kelley from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Just wanted to go back to the operating expense how much of that was driven by the increase in the sales force? And going forward do you think that there is room for additional fixed-cost expenses as you continue to add to the sales force to gain market share do business with new lenders? Sure.
The way that I described it -- again the operating expense used to support the revenue was about $7 million.
The specific split on how much of that was related to the sales force I don't have the split but I would expect most of that $7 million would be compensation-related expenses to support the sales staff.
Okay.
And do you feel like the sales force at this point is appropriate for the growth goals that you have in mind or if there will be additional hires? Yes I certainly think that it's appropriate for the business that we're producing now.
But keep in mind too if the demand is there I would expect us to staff up accordingly as well.
And McKenzie as you know the market is transitioning from the refi to a purchase market.
And so we have to take into consideration short-term changes in the market and what that means from a sales and customer focus.
As well as longer-term we've talked about the fact that we have these strategic alliances with various segments of the population which we think in the longer-term will dominate the demand for housing.
So we're a company that always looks at taking actions that benefit us in the near future but we believe we have the strength and have to have the strategic foresight to also invest beyond that for the longer-term.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on that on the new lenders that were added this quarter and last are they meaningful contributors to volume at this point? Or how are they in terms of spending volume? Teresa to answer that -- and keep in mind the first year we see small impact and then it builds up.
Teresa? Yes we typically look at the customers once they start to -- and talk about them once they start to generate business.
And the customers tend to be because we're focused on having a diversified view of customers so that we have both credit union community bank and then larger -- both bank and independent customers so they are sort of a variety.
Typically it's a relatively small percent of what we see when they first come on board and then we work with them to build.
And as you have seen from this strategy over time that builds into a much bigger portion of NIW over time.
And our next question comes from Doug Harter from Credit Suisse.
I was hoping you could just give a little more clarity around the $1.7 billion reconciliation.
Was that adjusted for in the persistency number or was that a drag on the persistency reported this quarter? It was a drag on the persistency number.
So I guess with that and higher rates and your commentary about refis slowing how do you think about the persistency in the coming quarters and where you think that could hit? Sure.
So as you mentioned the key drivers there the lower persistency we would expect to see an increase back to call it approximately 83%.
And we have a question from the line of Jack Micenko from SIG.
Frank I guess my first question the security gains obviously the sale of Radian asset you repositioned the book there.
I guess I'm just wondering is there an opportunity to harvest more gains there? Or going forward as you guided to that yield improvement and maybe going out on duration is it more about reinvestment going forward? How do we think about security gains on a quarterly basis here going forward? Yes so let me just clarify.
The gains that I was speaking about related to Radian asset were not associated necessarily with the investment portfolio.
As we think about the investment portfolio going forward again we do expect to stretch the duration a little bit.
Call it anywhere from half a year to a year and would expect to see that yield climb accordingly.
But the outsized gains you've taken in the last couple of quarters do you think that continues as well or is that largely behind you? I would not expect to see much of that going forward.
And then looking at the loss ratios on the newer vintages I think it's slide 16 or 14 I'm not sure -- the 10 or 11 loss ratios they are holding that three-year peak trend coming back down.
I guess is that the new normal or is that the right way to think about those 10 or 11 and maybe more recent vintages given that we have pretty much seasoned those portfolios? Yes this is Derek.
I think with respect to those portfolios I think a couple of things.
One is in terms of the first couple of quarters this year you have some seasonal impact.
Obviously we have more favorable development early in the year.
Also we have made adjustments with respect to our new default to claim rate which also impacted incurred losses.
I would say in terms of the 2011 that's hitting your peak loss ratios.
So I think at this point we wouldn't really change our guidance from what I gave probably last quarter which is really seeing those vintages meeting the 2010 to 2012 probably trending into the single-digit -- perhaps the upper single digits.
And then with respect to 2013 and 2014 I would still think it's very early to tell with respect to that experience.
And again that's also going to depend on the macro environment.
Those vintages have benefited from very favorable conditions.
So if you see a reversal on that you could see those loss ratios move back up.
And then I guess if you could just one last question if you had any comments on the AIG note pass-through issuance that's in the marketplace.
Yes it's a very interesting development.
We need to evaluate it further but we think it's a very interesting and encouraging development.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question is from Chris Gamaitoni from Autonomous Research.
I think this is for Teresa.
In a normal period maybe pre-crisis where with that 14% claim rate on new notices go to? Yes this is Derek.
That's probably a better question for me.
I think in a normalized environment what you would see could be reduced to I would say maybe the 10% to 11% range.
I think is what we've seen perhaps looking at their early 2000 vintages.
Sure.
And then if I just look at the reserves for delinquency excluding that at the NR and LAE it looks like the three-months-or-less bucket declined from $13 900 to $12 100 and the four to 11 months from $19 200 to $16 900.
Were the claim rate changes in that or is that just a mix within those buckets? Or really what drove the change? Yes those would be a mix in terms of the buckets.
So we changed the enroll rate with respect to the new delinquents so those that are first delinquent.
And then what you'll see in terms of the way it rolls up it's going to be largely a distribution in terms of how long they have been in default.
So you'll see some variability on that quarter to quarter's results.
Sure.
And then my only other question is do you give an updated outlook of NIW for the rest of the year? Well as we have said it's hard to forecast what's going to happen in the market over the next six months.
All we can say is based on the strong NIW that we've written for the first six months significantly ahead of last year we stand by our statement to meet or exceed the NIW totals from last year.
Sure.
And then finally what impact does recouping the reinsurance agreement have on the required available assets? Do you have an estimated number? We don't offhand here.
I think no.
We don't have it at this point on this subject.
We have a question from the line of Al Copersino from Columbia Management.
Quick question you mentioned that you are going to be reviewing the additional capital required under P Myers for LMPI singles business.
I wonder if you can just give us some more comments there what you're thinking about that business.
You mentioned it quickly but I'm curious what your thoughts there are in terms of your required ROE for that business the secondary benefits it gives you in terms of more monthly volume.
What are you thinking about as far as the single business goes? Well I think at this point we're still looking at what our options are.
We don't really talk about the returns on that business.
We think about it in terms of a blended return overall.
And so we're continuing to look at that as well as to understand what the competitive landscape may be.
That of course goes into effect at the beginning of next year and it is perspective not on business that we're writing right now.
So we're taking some time to understand what all our options are so we're not really in a position to elaborate more than that at this point.
That's fair.
One other question if I can real quickly.
A bit of the nitpicky question so I apologize.
But on slide 16 there just may not be enough data points to make any statement at all.
But does it appear on slide 16 -- I'm looking at the graph not the table -- that the 2013 and 2014 years have shown some slight deterioration versus 2012? Or am I looking at that incorrectly? In terms of the vintages? The 2013 and 2014? Yes.
With respect to those you're also going see in terms of just where they are in their seasoning cycle.
You should see those pick up because essentially they are kind of starting to move up in terms of the normal peak in terms of losses.
So that would be expected.
But are we running better than or worse than the 2012 vintage? Or again is it just simply too early to say? I think it's too early to say with respect to those.
And again some of that is going to be also driven by premium numbers.
But again when you're looking at those numbers and the loss ratios we're talking about they are pretty close.
There is going to be some variability but I don't see significant differences.
Yes 3% versus 4% is not-- Yes that's too close that's so small in terms of the difference we're talking.
So I think it's hard to look at that and say there's really I think a difference in performance.
It's still early to tell with those vintages so I wouldn't draw conclusion on that.
And our next question comes from Geoffrey Dunn from Dowling &amp; Partners.
I want to understand your premium rate a little bit better.
This quarter you had nearly $10 million of refundings quarter.
I think you said it $8 million.
Is that a fair estimate of the full impact there that's subject to variability refis or is it more than that cumulative $18 million we should consider? That's about right Geoff.
Okay.
And as you go forward obviously you had the 14 rate cut on BPMI and then maybe you have mix shift going forward.
What are your thoughts in terms of the direction of that core rate? Is it something that could be stable as we think about more mix from the lower 14-and-after rate or is it something that we could see deteriorate as maybe mix doesn't shift as quickly? No I would expect to see it stabilize as the refinancings decrease over time and I would expect the mix to stabilize.
So those two elements being the key drivers of what will cause variability in that number I think should help it level off.
Okay.
And then on the expense front I guess I'm having trouble getting my hands around the extent of the increase we have seen.
I understand its more business but you did a similar level of business in 3Q 2014.
Obviously you have wage pressure naturally but it seems like there's more variability in your cost base even though we're losing this performance-based stock comp expense.
So can you give us a little bit better feel for how we should think about run rate expense level in the MI business? Is it something that's closer to $55 million? Is it something closer to $45 million? I just -- see the last two quarters I don't have a great feel for that.
I think the range that you should think about for our operating expenses are between $55 million and $60 million.
Part of what you're seeing on the variability there has a lot to do with our mortgage and real estate services segment.
And again as you see expenses increase there that's actually a good thing because of the variable nature.
And as the revenue was volatile so too will their expenses be.
So much of what you saw there as far as the other operating expense increase for the core business if you will -- much of it was related to mortgage and real estate services particularly with the acquisition of Red Bell.
How about just on the MI side? What's the core run-rate there? Again I'm just talking about the total from $55 million to $60 million.
So ex what the operating expenses were for the mortgage in real estate business call it last quarter would be the number I would go with.
Okay.
And then lastly every MI Company is talking about evaluating the new LTMI capital charges.
It seems charges are going up 10% to 35%.
And we know the rate cards price to kind of low-teen ROEs before any discounts.
Why isn't anybody admitting that rate has to go up in order to preserve returns? I think mathematically that's correct.
I think what we're commenting on though is it's too early to tell what the competitive landscape is going to look like there.
And so again as you know we evaluate our pricing on a blended basis both on a customer basis and a portfolio basis.
So we don't have enough information at this time to I think really speak to it.
But you are factually correct on the math that if pricing stays the same and capital charges increase the returns will go down.
What are you implying by the competitive comment? Meaning that maybe competitive considerations don't make rate go up as much as it necessarily needs to in order to preserve current returns? No Geoff what we're saying is that when it comes to the competitive landscape we have to be careful in not paying anything that is leading or directing the competitive environment.
We will act based on what we think is best for us and the competition -- individually each competitor will decide what's best for them.
But we can't make statements about we expect or hope something of the other half will react on our basis.
So for example in terms of us taking our own actions in terms of price discipline we basically last quarter didn't do any aggregated singles.
But that was our decision.
I can't tell you what others did or didn't do.
So we will make a decision based on the competitive landscape actions.
And based on whether there are any or not any based on what our individual appetite and direction is and in order to manage it to a blended return that is acceptable to us.
And each competitor will decide what's right for them.
That's why we're being careful not because-- And we have a question from Eric Beardsley from Goldman Sachs.
Just a quick follow-up on that point have you seen any early changes in competitive behavior whether it's the level or frequency of discounting in terms of single-premium business? Sure.
As it relates to discount and Teresa can comment more on the frequency of what she is seeing there -- but as it relates to discounts from our standard card rate the impact of the average discount on the card rate premium on our total NIW in the second quarter was only about 2.6%.
So the effect of it was relatively negligible for us.
But Teresa I don't know if you want to comment on where you are seeing it or how much you are seeing it.
And keep in mind every competitor has their own strategy.
So Teresa? Yes I think that we haven't seen much of a change yet in terms of what anyone is doing.
And so we don't have much insight into where people might be going yet with respect to what they're going to do for 2016.
But I would say that as a general proposition strategies seem to be pretty much the same as they were prior to the announcement.
So you haven't seen anyone pull back on discounting or talk of any competitors not offering the same rates anymore? No.
I think everybody has been -- obviously that's something we can't talk to each other about.
So we're in a situation where it's just maybe what we hear from customers and what have you and I really haven't seen anyone make a move in regards to the capital changes yet.
And we have a question from Jack Micenko from SIG.
I wanted to just ask about as a follow-up on the 97.
It looks like you almost doubled this quarter that set off a very low base.
I guess the question given the timing of when it rolled out are we on our way from 1.8% to 3.2% to something greater? Or do you feel like the 3.2% is sort of where the market is right now? Just trying to gauge a sense of the opportunity there as it relates to volume and premium rates.
This is Derek and Teresa can jump in too.
Looking at when both GSEs offered the 97 products I think we were running around 4% to 5%.
So I would expect it to go up so I would expect it to probably settle in kind in that range maybe around 5% somewhere in kind of the mid-single digits.
I would agree with that.
That's what we historically have seen.
Obviously as we see the growth in first-time homebuyers and the growth in new households in the millennial segment there may be some additional demand for the lower down-payment products.
But I think we would expect to see some pickup from where we're right now but it's hard to say what that would look like.
And our next question comes from Sean Dargan of Macquarie.
The insurance in force that you reported in June 30 correct me if I'm wrong but that was lower than what you had in May as disclosed in the debt offering statement? Relative to the previous quarter it was up.
It may have been down slightly relative to May but it's impacted by the reconciliation process that I mentioned previously.
That's the big driver there.
Understood but it seems like we're nearing an inflection point where despite the heavy NIW volumes that you've been putting up this year you are going to be struggling to keep insurance in force growing.
So I guess my question is given the capital charges coming against lender-paid singles in 2016 are you willing to protect your returns at the expense of growing insurance in force? First off I don't know if we agree with your comment that insurance in force went down because as you see the refis come down in particular the persistency rate is likely to go up.
But that aside a separate question on what we may or may not do to -- in terms of trading off in growing insurance in force versus premiums.
Our earnings are driven by multiplying insurance in four [ph] times premiums and we're always sensitive to taking into consideration what's the best strategy to follow in that regard.
And our goal is to more focus not -- insurance and premium is only a driver of future earnings not the end goal in itself.
It's really the combination of the two and that's what we look at driving.
Understood but if the industry does not increase pricing on lender paid in 2016 would it be safe to say that you would no longer want to write as much as one-third of new production in that product? I'm not going to comment on what we do in the future.
If you want to judge us based on actions we've already taken.
What we've said was in this quarter we did not write any aggregated singles business because we didn't think the returns are acceptable and I don't know what others did or not but we basically will do what we think is right for us to manage to an acceptable return that we want to realize.
And I would just add to it there is as I said there are many variables in the equation there as we analyze this.
To isolate one without assuming any variation in the other variables would be difficult for us to do.
The challenge to answer hypothetical question like that the big assumption there is nobody's going to do anything in response to this fairly dramatic capital increase.
So we really have to monitor competitive dynamics.
We have to look at our franchise value and we have to look at short-term as though it was long-term opportunity to generate revenues and returns.
And we try and balance all of those considerations.
And if you judge by our history I think we've done a pretty good job of balancing all of those factors.
And your last question comes from Geoffrey Dunn from Dowling &amp; Partners.
I just wanted to clarify a number you mentioned before.
You said your average discount was 2.6%.
Is that on the aggregate book? Yes.
All right.
What is the discount specifically on your lender product versus the rate card? Geoff I think as you know for competitive reasons we don't disclose either customer level or product level pricing information.
Your competitor did the other day could you give an idea if it's plus or minus to that 11%? Yes I'm really not comfortable commenting on a competitor.
Since there are no further questions I will turn it back over to CEO S.A.
Ibrahim.
Right.
Before I close Frank will make a clarifying comment on capital.
Sure.
Thanks S.A.
I wanted to circle back to a question that was asked earlier about the capital required on the clawback action.
In the P Myers required capital increase on that clawback is roughly $40 million and that is already included in our estimate of $330 million needed to be P Myers compliant.
So thank you S.A.
Okay.
Thanks Frank.
And with that I would like to thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
And we look forward to reporting to you on our progress in the next quarter.
Thanks operator.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference today.
We would like to thank you for your purchase patient and for using AT&amp;T teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Radian’s Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to now turn our conference over to our host Emily Riley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian’s third quarter 2015 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian’s financial results for the quarter was issued earlier this morning and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.radian.biz.
This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures which will be discussed during today’s call.
A complete description of these measures and the reconciliation to GAAP maybe found in press release exhibits E F and G and on the Investors section of our website.
During today’s call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian’s Chief Executive Officer and Frank Hall Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guarantee; Joe D’Urso President of Clayton; Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group; and Cathy Jackson Corporate Controller.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
I am pleased to report the results of our third quarter and highlight several topics and trends important to our businesses.
Following my comments Frank will cover the details of our financial position.
Then I will summarize a few key points before opening the call to your questions.
Turning to the quarter’s results earlier today we reported net income for the third quarter of 2015 of $70 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
This compares to net income for the third quarter of 2014 of $154 million or $0.67 per diluted share.
You will find the key drivers of our GAAP EPS on Slide 8 of our webcast presentation.
Adjusted pre-tax operating income was $116 million for the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of last year of $126 million.
Adjusted diluted net operating income per share for the third quarter of 2015 was $0.31.
As you may recall there were several favorable significant items that impacted both premiums earned and incurred losses in the third quarter of last year.
While this may make the comparisons of our year-over-year results more challenging I am pleased to report that in the third quarter of this year we successfully wrote more high-quality mortgage insurance business in the quarter and grew our mortgage insurance in force continued to experience extremely low loss levels in our post-2008 MI books made progress in further reducing our legacy MI exposure and expanded the scope of services we offer through our fee-based businesses.
And now turning to the mortgage insurance segment we continued to improve the composition of our mortgage insurance portfolio which is the primary driver of future earnings for Radian.
The high-quality and profitable new business we wrote after 2008 now represents 83% of our total primary insurance risk in force or 74% excluding HARP volume.
You may find these details on webcast Slide 12.
We wrote $11.2 billion of new MI business in the third quarter.
Year-to-date we wrote $32.3 billion an 18% increase over the $27.3 billion written in the first three quarters of 2014.
I am pleased to report that we are on track to surpass the $37 billion in NIW we wrote in 2014.
While we expect the decline in refinancings in 2016 to impact overall mortgage originations volume we expect increased penetration from purchase originations where private mortgage insurance is three to four times more likely to be used than for refis.
As a result we are expecting lower refi and higher purchase volume next year thus projecting a total market for mortgage insurance that is comparable to this year.
There are many encouraging statistics that point to growth in household formations over the next several years.
Mortgage rates remained below 4% and we are seeing a shift in consumer attitude towards home ownership versus renting particularly over the last 12 months.
Single-family housing starts reached a 7-year high in 2015 and new home sales are also on the rise.
Let me take a moment now to address MI price competition given the high level of interest we have seen within the investment community.
At Radian we are focused on writing as much high-quality new MI business as possible while maintaining a well-balanced portfolio and business mix that we expect to generate after-tax returns in the low to mid-teens.
In order to maintain this return threshold we have opted not to compete with certain pricing discounts.
While this decision has modestly impacted our market share we have often been able to offset the impact with the addition of new customers and by increasing the amount of business we had received from existing customers.
Notwithstanding competition this year we are projecting that 2015 will be our second best year for primary flow NIW writing in excess of $40 billion.
We continue to strive for the best balance of new business volume and returns on our capital.
At Radian we have had outstanding success in creating new business relationships and growing existing ones.
Driven by a customer-focused culture our sales team brought in 35 new customers in the third quarter and more than 100 total in 2015.
We sharpened our focus on credit unions earlier this year garnering a 19% increase in new business from this growing segment compared to the third quarter of last year.
We also continue to focus on expanding home ownership among low to moderate income borrowers particularly first time homebuyers.
The volume of 97% LTV business we insured grew slightly in the third quarter representing 3.5% of NIW.
Nearly 75% of that business utilizes our mortgage assure program which attracts new homebuyers by providing job loss protection for lenders and borrowers.
Turning to the credit environment the positive credit trends from the first half of the year continued into the second half due to a strong economy as did the favorable impact of our portfolio from both the legacy as well as newer businesses.
Slide 13 shows that for the nine months ended September 30 2015 earned premiums less incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages were $472 million compared to $352 million for the first nine months ended September 30 2014 and only $20 million lower than full year 2014.
What’s most important to remember is that the earned premium for the large and profitable books of business returned after 2008 is expected to serve as the foundation for growth in profits over the next several years.
And as we grow our mortgage insurance in force with new profitable business we are further strengthening and extending that foundation of future earnings growth.
Turning to our mortgage and real estate services segment third quarter total revenues were $43 million compared to $45 million for the second quarter of 2015 and $42 million for the third quarter of 2014.
Exhibit E of the press release provides the five quarter trend for this segment and also includes the adjusted pretax operating income before corporate allocations of $5.7 million.
You will find further historical details on Slide 29.
As you may have seen earlier this month Clayton announced its acquisition of ValuAmerica a Pittsburg based national title agency appraisal management company and technology provider.
The addition of ValuAmerica expands the scope of title and valuation services Clayton offers to our mortgage clients and it’s consistent with our strategy of being a complete solution provider to the mortgage and real estate industries.
These services also bring new opportunity to differentiate Radian among its MI peers.
Turning to the regulatory and legislative topics important to mortgage insurance business PMIERs will become effective on December 31 2015 and we believe that these new capital rules will have instilled even greater confidence in the long-term value and role of the MI industry.
At Radian we expect to comply using only a portion of our holding company cash.
While housing policy discussions on Capitol Hill have not yet resulted in significant legislative change we remain actively engaged with key policymakers and here support for the important role of private capital including private mortgage insurance in the future housing finance.
Discussions continue regarding expanding our industry’s role in front end risk sharing including deeper MI coverage that would further protect the GFEs from risk and reduce borrower costs.
Last week an analysis prepared by Milliman on deeper MI coverage was issued by our industry trade association USMI.
The study demonstrated how housing finance risks would be significantly reduced for the GFEs and for tax payers through the use of private MI while also reducing borrower costs.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you S.A.
and good morning.
Before I get into the details of our results I would like to address a few points of clarification to aid in the analysis of these results.
As a reminder our segment income statements in Exhibit E present additional detail by segregating the allocated corporate expenses and interest expense into separate line items.
This presentation is intended to provide more transparency into the direct costs and contributions of the segments and we have also included a more conventional metric for our services business of earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA.
You will also note some reduction in available holding company liquidity that will take place in the fourth quarter to support the redemption of convertible notes and the purchase of ValuAmerica.
I will further discuss the capital and liquidity position and plans for Radian shortly.
And finally you may note that our effective tax rate for the quarter is 39%.
Our tax rate this quarter continues to be elevated due to the residual effects of the tax treatment of our capital transactions in the second quarter of 2015 and its impact on our annualized effective tax rate.
Those items will continue to impact our annualized effective tax rates utilized for our tax provision estimate for 2015.
The tax rate is expected to be closer to our statutory effective rate of 35% beginning in 2016.
Moving now to the drivers of our revenue new insurance written was $11.2 billion during the quarter compared to $11.8 billion last quarter and $11.2 billion in the third quarter of 2014.
Refinancing decreased again as expected to 13% of volume this quarter compared to 23% last quarter and 16% a year ago.
We continue to expect our full year 2015 NIW and insurance in force to be higher than the full year 2014.
Single premium business represented 27% of our total NIW in the third quarter a decline from 32% in the second quarter.
This continued decline is consistent with both the market conditions of diminishing refinancings and our deliberate actions related to pricing.
Primary insurance in force increased to $174.9 billion during the quarter our 12-month persistency declined from 80.1% in the second quarter of 2015 to 79.2% in the third quarter of 2015 as noted on Exhibit M.
To give more context with respect to how persistency is currently trending our annualized 3-month persistency increased from 76.2% in the second quarter of 2015 to 80.5% in the third quarter.
Second quarter 2015 persistency was modestly impacted by our previously disclosed reconciliation with servicers resulting in higher cancellations.
Earned premiums for the quarter were down approximately $10 million from the second quarter primarily related to a reduction in the acceleration of unearned premium recognition on single premium policy cancellations related to refinance activity.
This acceleration contributed $13 million to unearned premium this quarter as compared to $25 million in the second quarter.
Acceleration of premiums enhances the returns on our book of single premium business and is an illustration of why we prefer a mix of singles and monthlies in our portfolio.
The current quarter also benefited from a reduction to our accrual for recession related premium refunds of approximately $5 million.
Investment income increased slightly in the quarter due to the further deployment of liquidity from the sale of our financial guarantee business earlier in the year.
Our portfolio yield increased to 2.1% at quarter end and is expected to increase further as we deploy this liquidity into longer duration instruments.
We expect our duration to extend from approximately 3.8 years to 4.8 years over the next several quarters.
Total services revenue for our mortgage and real estate services segment was $43 million for the quarter as compared to $45 million in the second quarter.
As we have mentioned previously and as you can see on Slide 29 we expect fluctuations in revenues in this business as the transactional nature of these businesses contributes to greater volatility in revenue.
We have also enhanced our presentation on the services segment to include greater insights into the products and services and the range of historical percentage of revenue each of these components has contributed.
On Slide 27 and 28 we have listed the five distinct business lines for our services segment.
These slides illustrate the percentage of revenue for each business line since 2014 the market segments and clients we serve and today’s primary revenue drivers.
In the last column you will see the potential future revenue drivers as the industry conditions may change and evolve.
Moving now to our loss provision and credit quality the loss ratio was 28.2% this quarter as compared to 13.3% in the second quarter and 22.5% in the third quarter of last year.
We observe further improvements in new defaults on a net quarterly basis which decreased 15% over new defaults in the third quarter of last year.
We continued to see positive credit trends such as a decrease in the number of new defaults and improved tier rates.
However we have determined to wait until actual results further substantiate these trends before we further reduce our estimated claim rate on new defaults from its current level of 14%.
To the extent these trends continue as expected we would also expect to further reduce our estimated claim rate on new defaults.
As a reminder we have experienced historical claim rates on new defaults as low as 10%.
Cumulative incurred loss ratios of business written after 2008 remain extremely low and are presented on webcast Slide 15.
The primary mortgage insurance delinquency rate was 4.1% in the third quarter compared to 4.3% in the second quarter of 2015.
Our expected paid claims for the full year 2015 are estimated to be approximately $700 000 inclusive of the BofA settlement.
Claims for 2016 are expected to be approximately $400 million to $450 million.
Moving now to expenses other operating expenses for the quarter were $65.1 million as compared to $67.7 million last quarter and $51.2 million in the third quarter 2014.
Fully allocated operating expenses this quarter were comprised of approximately $52 million for our mortgage insurance segment and $13 million for our services segment.
This should approximate normalized operating expense run rates and we are continually evaluating opportunities for ongoing efficiency and improvements in our expenses.
And finally I will turn to a discussion on capital and liquidity.
Currently we have holding company available funds of approximately $710 million.
The reduction from last quarter’s available funds of $735 million is related to fourth quarter 2015 cash outflows for the exercise of a holder’s conversion option on our 2019 convertible debt instruments as well as a negotiated exchange on our 2017 convertible debt and cash proceeds utilized for the Clayton acquisition of ValuAmerica.
We continue to expect to be in compliance with PMIERs by utilizing approximately $320 million of holding company liquidity.
This is needed for day one compliance.
Also keep in mind the capital will continue to build organically at a strong rate within Radian Guarantee.
Assumed in this statement is full PMIERs benefit of our only outstanding quota share reinsurance arrangement.
Prior to December 31 we expected to have completed our evaluation of ways to optimize our compliance by maximizing the inclusion of available assets such as corporate owned life insurance and potential further optimization through additional reinsurance.
We will also further evaluate the appropriate cushions to hold at Radian Group and Radian Guarantee to ensure both continual compliance with PMIERs and to support our organic growth expectations as we continue to write strong volumes of NIW.
We will provide additional information on these cushions as we further refine our analysis.
I will now turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Frank.
Before we open the call to your questions let me emphasize.
First I am pleased with our continued ability to write more high-quality MI business while also growing our mortgage insurance in force maintaining attractive returns and delivering our second best year in primary flow NIW volume.
Second we are creating a diversified source of revenue in growing fee-based income to our services segment while also deepening our relationship with our MI customers.
And finally I am excited about the future prospects for Radian as we enhance and seek new opportunities for our existing products and services.
Now operator we would like to open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Eric Beardsley with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Just had a couple of questions.
First on the premiums I think you mentioned $13 million acceleration of unearned premiums from singles just how should we think about that moving forward? Is that something that goes to zero at some point? Presumably you have a little bit of a benefit moving forward.
Yes I would not expect it to go to zero.
And I think it’s correlated obviously to refinance activity and other metrics such as that.
$13 million for the quarter again compared to $25 million last quarter obviously our singles production was down from 32% to 27% again correlated to refinance activity.
So it’s hard to gauge what that number looks like going forward.
I think it – again I would correlate it to what your expectations are around refinance activity but I would not project zero.
Got it.
So I guess all else equal would you say that premium rate is stable here and I guess with that how do you evaluate reinsurance opportunities I guess the trade-off between ROE and earnings? Yes.
So as far as the premium rate being stable I think there were not too many influences of that premium rate this quarter.
So I think it’s sort of the normalized level right now.
The impact on it going forward of course will depend on future pricing decisions etcetera but as it relates to how we are thinking about reinsurance we have said historically at least over the last couple of quarters we do not need reinsurance as part of our capital plan to comply with PMIERs but we will look at it more strategically in the risk management context.
So it’s something that we are continually evaluating and looking for ways to utilize it to optimize our balance sheet.
Yes this is Joe.
I think I want to add in terms of how we think about reinsurance and how we utilize it is looking at from a cost of capital perspective and then also looking at I would say overall leverage from the holding company and kind of thinking about our future ready so that’s the other thing I think that would factor into that.
We believe particularly at this time there are many attractive reinsurance alternatives available and we will evaluate the trade-off specifically to your question Eric between the returns and earnings and look at those opportunities where they make sense but it’s great to be in a position where we have so many reinsurance alternatives available that can further strengthen our profitability going forward if we utilize them.
Okay.
And then just really quickly I guess do you have any initial thoughts on what the cushion for PMIERs might be? So if I think about this you have $710 million of liquidity today expected downstream $320 million leaving you with $390 million and I guess you have talked about doing something with the 2019 converts early next year? I guess is that something that you use cash for or do you need to have a bigger cushion for that at the hold co? Frank will answer that but keep in mind at some point we are going to accrete capital within the mortgage insurance subsidiary.
That’s right.
So the way that I probably will guide you at this point on the cushion is really in the context of the analysis that we are undertaking presently which is to understand what the likely stress scenarios are and also what the organic growth scenarios look like.
So because PMIERs is a retrospective analysis we need to always be in compliance.
So we need to have a fairly well-established forward look on both of those items stress and growth and of course we always need to be in compliance.
And Derek I don’t know if you have anything else to add on that? Yes I think philosophically the only thing I would add is why we will try and get as close as possible to the cushion we need within the financial guarantee entity.
Our bias is to keep more of that cushion at the hold co level if we can to give us more flexibility.
That’s right.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Jeremy Campbell with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks guys.
So just wanted to clarify a point on that previous question so the $320 million you guys talked about potentially down-streaming to the sub that brings you basically just in line with recorded assets with PMIERs does that contemplate any kind of cushion? That’s correct.
Okay great.
And then I think as they touched on pricing competition earlier I think it was more in the lender space so we have seen some smaller competitors come out with new pricing methodologies for the monthly product over the past couple of months.
Can you guys just share your thoughts on these recent competitive actions and the potential for future pricing pressure in the monthly product moving forward? Sure.
So this is Teresa and I would be happy to take that question.
So first of all I think the important thing is that in particular the recent approach by Arch is more of a sort of black box model and its risk-based pricing.
So we already have risk-based pricing in that.
We established pricing levels and rate card granularity by evaluating applicable loan attributes in the resulting cash flow and loss sensitivities.
And we’ve actually made those more granular over the last few years and we’ve also improved our risk analytic tools which allow us to have even more the view of what we should be doing from a pricing point of view.
So what those – particular strategy does is to give even more granularity but it also is more opaque to lenders and others in terms of what is happening in terms of that pricing model.
So we’re going to continue to assess what our strategic position are to be with respect to whether or not we do something more granular or similar approach to that.
The other thing that we are evaluating is how this translates out for lenders because there are some concerns about the ability to use those types of models in a trip friendly way.
So we’re having those conversations with lenders but I think it’s important to note most importantly that we already use – use pricing and we have the tools to develop it in a more granular way if we so choose to do so.
Got it.
And then just broadly speaking you don’t foresee any kind of near-term pricing pressure overall? Well it’s very difficult right now because we’re still seeing competition from a pricing point of view in the market.
But we also are hearing consistently from our customers that competitors are saying they are going to moderate their pricing as a result of the PMIERs.
So we’ve done some filings related to that and so we’re continuing to make final decisions about where we’re going to lay and because we want to make sure that we are competitive while also continuing to balance the return that we’re getting on the business.
So it’s hard to say at this point I think we’ll have more visibility into that over the next month or so.
Great thanks guys.
And make sure that we are pleased with the fact that and a competitive environment like this again we’ve been able to we can still write record amount of NIW at attractive returns balancing all factors.
Our next question comes from the line of MacKenzie Kelley with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just one more question on the competition side are there other avenues that you are seeing that impacted the higher competition whether it would be just increased demand for contract underwriting or maybe any leniency in credit standards or anything else that we should be aware that might not necessarily show up just in price? Sure.
So hi MacKenzie.
I think the first thing is we’re not really seeing any thing from a credit standard point of view I think that’s been relatively stable.
I think we’ve seen some demand for contract underwriting over the course of the year but as you would imagine as refis have subsided we started to see some of that demand reduced as well.
So I don’t think there are sort of major drivers I mean we continue to focus on bringing in new customers.
We continue to focus on the credit union strategy that S.A.
talked about.
And we are continuing to focus on how do we add value for instance as we talked about all of the services that Clayton is able to provide especially as those have grown over the last few quarter.
We’re really starting to see interest by our customers and having the opportunity to come to Radian and get not only the mortgage insurance but also other services.
So we think that is going to be important for us going forward.
We just came back as you know from the mortgage bankers’ association annual convention and we’re encouraged to see continued interest particularly on the part of some of the smaller customers because the larger customers already use some Clayton services on using some of the Clayton products.
And more importantly use them on a subscription basis as oppose to a transaction braces.
So while this is in a very early stage we are encouraged by that because in large measure while we like Clayton for its fee revenue opportunities it’s very important to note that one of our major strategic track is to differentiate ourselves from our competition by offering particularly our small customers who value that a deeper relationship.
And we are starting to see the beginnings of that.
Great.
And then also just on your market share when you are looking at the success that you’ve had in bringing on I think it was 40 new lenders last quarter and I know few quantified at this quarter and then the success on the credit union side but balancing that against any changes and allocation from your existing accounts.
Do you think market share from here is still under pressure and is that already baked into your estimate or how are you kind of thinking going forward that market share we should be thinking about that? So I think we certainly are focused on kind of bringing in NIW that’s profitable and the good news is again that we are projecting this is going to be our second best year in primary flow NIW writing in excess of $40 billion.
So I think that’s been essentially our primary focus.
And is that what we’re seeing is that these growth initiatives do have an impact that the – the share erosion that we’ve seen this year has been a lot of the price competition particular has it sort of heated up during the year prior to PMIERs going into affected.
I think we’ve see some moderation and so to some of that competition that’s what we would expect based on what we’re hearing in the marketplace.
So we’re going to continue to focus on those growth initiatives and making sure we’re providing value to our customers.
We’ve also been very focused on providing competitively differentiated service levels and we think that’s also having traction in the marketplace.
So I think that’s how we’re looking at it and we’re really pleased with the amount of NIW that we are writing this year.
Alright thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
S.A.
we keep referring to price competition in the market but is this more just the natural evolution of MI pricing in a more sophisticated underwriting world where you get rid of the cross subsidization of the high FICO and actually price the business appropriately? And if that’s the case what else changes in the model if we have to adapt to that type of environment going forward? So Geoff if you look at high FICO as long as I know even from having been the user of MI to being an offer of MI the industry is always priced better on high FICO products and higher credit quality products.
So I don’t think there is anything new to that what is new is we have players who are coming into the market trying to garner the foothold and in many cases the only way they can do it is through aggressive pricing strategies.
And we are dealing with that as an environment now.
How long it clacks and how long it plays out remains to be seen based than largely determined by access to capital and other factors that will drive the ability for that to continue.
But there is also the PMIERs related discipline we expect to come in.
And the important thing is we as a company that sign up our strength have been able to deal it in the manner where we’ve been able to still write record NIW still maintain attractive returns while dealing with that competitive environment and we are building other tools such as the relationship drivers which will allow us to compete in that environment.
Should pricing remain the way it is after PMIERs comes into a fact though from everything we hear and believe it could be tempered after PMIERs goes into effect? Yes and this is Derek.
I would add I mean the trends we’re seeing in pricing is one towards increased granularity probably think the returns have flattened out across the card which also I think is probably a positive trend.
I think the other thing you are seeing in some actions for instance taken by – and by us in terms of increased rates on the single premium is also probably comprising the differential returns between monthly and singles.
And then the final factor I would point out which S.A.
alluded to as the PMIERs also put kind of 4 in terms of capital and provides that with a consistent capital framework to look at MI company versus MI company which we also think provides probably a floor in terms of how fact pricing can go down.
Okay.
So if I interpret there you are saying if you expect return to flatten out across the card you are expecting cross subsidization to go away from the high FICOs? I think that where we have seen some competitors move in terms of planning out those returns.
Yes I wouldn’t expect you’d – probably would see that trend over time.
Okay.
And then if you needed to adopt a black box option so I don’t think the rate curve is ever going to go away because Radian is in position to adopt that within the 6 to 12 month period? We have Teresa mentioned Geoff.
We have the analytical tools.
We have the frameworks to do that and we always look at that option.
The only thing now is to figure out whether it really if something that will help us achieve our objectives and whether we can do it in light of the new TRID rules in a manner what that makes us comfortable with it being TRID friendly.
In short yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko from SIG.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I am wondering if there is any pricing differential between credit unions and regular customer you had mentioned some nice growth in credit union.
I am wondering if that’s just increased sales effort if there is a broader pricing differential there? So there has been a separate rate card for credit unions for quite some time so there is no difference in that regard.
I think when we talk about our credit union strategy.
We actually brought on more sales people that are specifically focused on credit unions.
And we also broadened the use of our mortgage assured product with credit unions.
And so that’s how we focused on that.
But the pricing differential has been there for some time.
Okay.
And then I am maybe a little surprised to hear extending duration on the investment portfolio I guess at this point in the cycle I guess Frank 2.1 yield here you said you are going to extend about a year I mean how should we think about that on the yield for that book going forward with the extension? Yes.
I wouldn’t want to guide you too much on precise number of basis points but I think you can estimate what that might look like.
Again the complexion and the composition of the investment portfolio I would not expect to change other than it would be more fully invested it’s probably the best way to think about that.
Okay great.
And then just one last one I mean I think in Slide 15 this quarter the ‘10 and ‘11 books have suitable paths set for your window and appear to be continuing to move past peak loss ratios I mean is there anything that you guys think changes that directional trend over time? Well the only thing that would change it is some sort of macroeconomic dislocation.
So I would say a recession would be the only thing that I would think would likely reverse that.
So in the guidance we have given in the past on this I think holds true so really that 2010 to 2012 book we see those loss ratios that are settling out in the single digits.
And then the ’13 and ’14 again pretty early in the development.
So – but we see those trending I would say below 15%.
But again that will take time to develop.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just hoping you could clarify the comments that you made around claim rates and kind of what you are looking for before you would sort of lower the expected claim rate? Yes.
This is Derek.
I mean in terms of the claim rate I think what we saw over the last quarter you get some seasonal impact when you move from second quarter to third quarter.
So you see for instance our cure rates on – are two to three mispayment bucket in ‘04 to ‘11 decreased slightly that’s not atypical moving second quarter to third quarter.
So really what we are looking for is further development in terms of that and seeing what for instance the impact is going to be in the fourth quarter.
I would say overall and Frank alluded to this if overall positive trends continue I would expect that we would see reduction in future quarters.
And historically in a normalized environment and where you had I would say an expanding economy we have seen world rates on new defaults as well as 10%.
So if you kind of think about it over time that might be more above a base line in a normalized environment.
And I guess if that comes through would we expect to see that in more prior period development or would we see that in sort of the current period encrypts [ph]? I think you would see it in prior period development.
And again that’s what you saw in the past so for instance in previous quarter.
So in first and second quarter we actually decreased our world declaim rates on our new defaults and that flow through that line.
So you would have seen that in kind of in the comparison in previous quarters.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Pricing by the competitors does it look like the blended ROE can still end up in roughly the same? Sorry Bose we couldn’t hear you at the beginning.
So I just had a follow-up on the pricing just from what you see in terms of pricing by the competitors does it look like the blended ROE can end up in roughly the same point? Are you asking if every – based on pricing how does everybody? Is the returns on some of the higher FICO loans are going down is there a corresponding offset to the returns on the lower credit quality loans where pricing apparently has been increased by some of the competitors? Yes the question I think thing is if the cross subsidization is going down what is the offset to lower pricing at the higher FICO levels that we will still achieve the blended return target.
Obviously when we are kind of setting the returns what you are going to look at is the volume.
So obviously you have higher volume in those higher FICO buckets.
But what you are going to try to do is that the rates take into account your volume to keep I think your overall return to somewhat stable so that would be the objective.
And over time I think what we would expect to see and we have seen this trend to some extend is have the book of business from a FICO perspective decrease a bit over time that’s been a pretty steady decrease.
But we would factor that in in terms of our projections in our projected returns.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then just one unrelated question when you recapture the 50% of your seeded premium in 2016 does that work out you ran $15 million a year of premiums? Frank.
Yes.
Let’s see we have – last quarter we had recognized I think $6 million into the premium bear with me just a moment.
Bose we may need to get back on that.
Okay.
Yes.
I don’t think we have that number at hand.
Right.
And our next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just want to follow-up on the reserve development in existing default so if I heard correctly we should expect to see favorable development in that line if you reset your assumptions around default to claim rate and seasonally the third quarter tends to be unfavorable is that the way to think about it? It is unfavorable so what you have to look at is really factoring in the seasonal impact versus I would say the more secular and really try to disaggregate those and make a determination as to where it’s going from a secular perspective.
Okay.
And can you just remind us what your secular perspective is? Meaning that really looking at it I am kind of factoring off the seasonality impact.
So again what you are going to see when you go from second quarter into third quarter and third quarter to fourth quarter is you are going to see some natural deterioration and the question you always have to analyze is how much of that’s purely driven by seasonal factors versus I would say just the general trajectory of the book of business.
And so what we said with respect to third quarter is looking at that we took a pause in terms of actually reducing that rate again we look at that each quarter.
Okay thanks.
And just shifting gears what are the TRID issues or potential issues with TRID with risk based person? So when you think about using a lot of different scenarios pricing scenarios which is what you would see in kind of a black box situation.
Under TRID when you disclose at the beginning of the loan there are a lot more requirements around re-disclosure and the timing around disclosures.
And so one of the questions is whether or not you could have something relatively small occur that changes one of the parameters of the loan which takes you to a different price and triggers re-disclosure.
So part of the question is how as lenders are just getting their arms around TRID and we don’t even yet know kind of what this is going to look like as they have started close loan.
Is that something that enough lenders have in appetite for from a process and operations and customer impact point of view to use or whether or not it’s better to have what sort of the more transparent pricing that we currently have in the market but potentially giving more granularity there.
That’s right.
If you go back while there was one lender who has been offering black box pricing for many years they come out with a parallel more transparent pricing and not all customers prefer black box pricing.
So you have got different customers who have different levels of preference.
To that end we are in a position to adopt black box pricing if we think it can be uphold relatively fast.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Chris Gamaitoni your line is open.
We do have a follow-up question from Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I had a couple of follow-ups.
First what percent of the NIW market comes from the large national lenders that won’t take risk-based pricing and need the rate cards? I don’t think we’ve looked at that number Geoff.
And Geoff what makes it difficult is the large lenders numbers also in food loans they aggregate from the smaller lenders.
So if you are looking at a pure number it could be difficult to gap… Yes.
And again I mean I think we’re using risk-based pricing so I think what you’re asking is sort of who uses the black box and who doesn’t use the black box and a lot of that depends on whether lender uses an allocation model it depends on whether or not they let the loan officer sort of select the pricing.
So it’s very difficult to say kind of that.
I think as a general proposition what we see is the largest of lenders tend to not use the black box they tend to use more of a sort of rate card approach but I couldn’t give you a percentage.
Okay and then Derek I think you mentioned historically cross subsidization on a way booking your business mix but if you ray is the lower end FICO you are probably losing a bit more to FHA.
So I wanted to ask the question again in today’s marketplace if the cross subsidization goes away can you maintain your targeted returns by definition your ROE on the mix business today will go down? Again I think that’s going to depend upon where our competitors ultimately pricing and I think right now its we’re in a state of blocks.
I think we’ve seen again parties out there with the black box parties putting forward certain rate cards so its difficult to say quite honestly at this point in time where it kind of shakes out.
I would just add what we are hearing in the marketplace than what you are seeing there is actually concerns that a lot of lenders have particularly the large lenders not just changed.
With respect to moving away from FHA and there is a lot of concern about what they feel like they can’t control in terms of their risk particularly actions by the DOJ with respect to trouble damages.
And so what – the encouraging thing from an MI point of view is that we’re starting to see lenders look at how they can increase the amount of conventional financing that they are doing and potentially reduce what they are doing from an FHA perspective.
And I think the larger the lender the more you hear that.
Okay.
And then my last follow-up Frank the allocated expenses at the end of the day they are just expenses that belong to the company.
And I would think beside of the MI book we would probably want to see the expense ratio in MI come down towards 20%.
So are there any initiatives underway to try to trim that number down and get an expense ratio that might be more fitting up the size of your book? Yes certainly we’re always looking at ways to be more efficient etcetera.
We’ve got a monetization project underway that is intended to do just that I think what’s sometimes a little misleading about that is – as we transition from one system to another there is the potential to in essence have some duplication and certain costs.
But no we’re certainly mindful of what that expense ratio should be needs to be and are continually working on ways to get there.
Okay.
And in terms of just how we should think about that number going forward 12 to 14 kind of level the where it should stick? I’m sorry 12 to 14? In the MI allocation? Yes I think that’s I guess I indicated I think what we have right now you should expect to see on an ongoing basis.
There is some positives and negatives in the quarter that are some of one time in nature.
But I think on the net basis that’s that would be a reasonable expectation.
But Geoff to your point we have undertaken a major initiative which is called modernization which is well underway and maybe halfway through the purpose of the initiative is one to substitute technology for labor cost and make not only improve reduce the cost but make increase the amount of customer service and turnaround time and the customer flexibility we provide.
And the projected outcome of that is to give us a benefit in terms of our expense ratio.
Also keep in mind that the ratio alone can move significantly based on the level of reinsurance that we use or not.
Okay thanks.
And the final question comes from the line of Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me this time? Yes.
Hi yes thanks.
I wanted to follow up on the later stage delinquencies it looks like the reserve per delinquency in the 12 month and the pending buckets was up in the quarter I was just wondering what’s driving that and this is that something we’re going to see moving forward or was there it is was a one-time in nature? Yes I think one of the things you’re saying with respect the impact is on severity.
So one of the things we’re saying is when we look at kind of our pending inventory terms of default inventory those had have been in default for a longer period of time tend to have a higher severity.
And one other things we’ve looked at is basically allocating our severity where those that have been in default for a shorter period of time have a lower severity those that have been default for a longer period of time have a relatively high severity.
What’s really driving that is the longer a loan is been in default you’re racking up more fees in terms of taxes and ancillary fees.
And so I think that’s maybe what you saying in that of.
And I guess the follow up is is that a trend we’re going to see continue in the future and is there any – any way to limit that increasing severity from services not having their foreclosure timelines? Well I think what you’re going to see over time as compared to recent development I think our expectation is claims will be resolved and paid faster.
Again looking back over the last several year you’ve certainly had a large number of defaults in the pipeline.
So I think what we’re going to expect to see going forward is those to kind of clear out faster.
So I think over time you will see that kind of wash out.
Okay thank you.
Okay.
I would now like to turn the call back into the hands of Chief Executive Officer S.A.
Ibrahim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
For those who are interested in learning more about Radian and spending time with us figuring out why we are so excited about Radian and our opportunities.
You will have we would like to invite you to our Investor Day on Tuesday November 17<sup>th</sup> in New York City.
So we look forward to seeing you there.
And please visit our website for more information.
So with that I would like to end the call and I hope to see most of you in New York City on November 17<sup>th</sup>.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Radian’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Emily Riley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to Radian's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Our press release which contains Radian's financial results for the quarter was issued earlier this morning and is posted to the Investors section of our website at www.Radian.biz.
This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures which will be discussed during today's call.
A complete description of these measures and the reconciliation to GAAP may be found in press release exhibits E F and G and on the Investors section of our website.
During today's call you will hear from S.A.
Ibrahim Radian's Chief Executive Officer and Frank Hall Chief Financial Officer.
Also on hand for the Q&amp;A portion of the call are Teresa Bryce Bazemore President of Radian Guarantee; Joe D'Urso President of Clayton; Derek Brummer Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Radian Group; and Cathy Jackson Corporate Controller.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that comments made during this call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates projections and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially.
For a discussion of these risks please review the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements included in our earnings release and the risk factors included in our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.
These are also available on our website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to S.A.
Thank you Emily.
Thank you all for joining us and for your interest in Radian.
Before we discuss the financial results for the fourth quarter I would like to highlight what I believe 2015 has met for Radian.
Following my comments Frank will cover the details of our financial position.
Then I will summarize a few key points before opening the call to your questions.
2015 was a year when we delivered strong financial results demonstrated our commitment to balance and discipline by writing high-quality flow MI business that was among the highest in our company's history and positioned Radian for future success as a simplified company with a clear strategic focus on our core strengths.
First we eliminated all of our exposure to financial guaranty credit risk with the sale of Radian Asset.
Second we grew our mortgage insurance in force.
Including writing a high-volume of profitable mortgage insurance business.
We expect our in force book to grow in 2013 and enhance a strong foundation for future earnings.
Third we expanded our mortgage and real estate services offerings with the acquisitions of Red Bell Real Estate and ValuAmerica.
These offerings add fee-based revenue help distinguish Radian among its mortgage insurance peers and position our company for future success in a mortgage financing environment that continues to evolve.
Fourth we satisfied the private mortgage insurer eligibility requirements.
As part of our PMIER strategy we utilized a surplus note which is a creative solution that allows us the opportunity to quickly return liquidity to the holding company and provide greater capital flexibility.
This has allowed us the opportunity to explore capital options including the $100 million share repurchase program recently authorized by our board.
Today we believe we are better positioned to drive long-term value than ever before.
Our legacy exposure is largely behind us and we have a clear focus on our core strengths.
Our large and successful mortgage insurance business is expected to generate strong revenue from our existing high-quality and profitable book of business for years to come.
And we are successfully leveraging our customer relationships and increased capabilities through our Clayton family of companies.
We believe this winning combination will further expand and strengthen our core businesses and drive long-term value for our shareholders.
Turning to the quarter and year-end results.
Earlier today we reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2015 of $75 million or $0.32 per diluted share.
Adjusted pretax operating income was $124 million for the fourth quarter of 2015 which compares favorably to $58 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year 2015 adjusted pretax operating income was $511 million an increase of 49% over the $342 million reported for the full year 2014.
These strong year-over-year results reflect the earnings power of a high-quality and growing mortgage insurance in force.
Adjusted diluted net operating income per share for the fourth quarter was $0.34 and $1.40 for the full year 2015.
Book value per share grew 10% year-over-year to $12.07 at December 31 2015.
And now turning to the mortgage insurance segment.
We continue to grow and improve the composition of our mortgage insurance in force which is expected to be the primary driver of future earnings for Radian.
The high quality and profitable new business we wrote after 2008 now represents 84% of our total primary mortgage insurance risk in force or 75% excluding HARP volume.
You may find these details on webcast slide 11.
On webcast slides 12 and 13 you will find a new disclosure that compares the loan characteristics of Radian's existing risk in force as of 2015 2011 2007 and 2003.
As you can see here and as we discussed during our Investor Day in November the credit quality of today's business is vastly superior to the business written pre-housing and economic downturn.
While the average FICO scores and LTV mix maybe the most obvious differentiators it's important to note that the 2015 book of business consists primarily of prime credit quality loans on purchased mortgages using a fixed rate product.
While all of our business written in 2015 is prime credit quality nearly 1/3 of our book in 2003 consisted of exotic product such as subprime Alt-A or low-dock loans combined in some cases with teaser ARMs.
Today's NIW is not only better in terms of credit quality but it also has a higher average premium rate.
We wrote $9 billion of new MI business in the fourth quarter.
And $41 billion for the full year 2015 which was an increase of 11% over 2014.
Let me now address MI industry competition which continues to attract attention in the investment community.
At Radian we are focused on writing as much high-quality new MI business as possible while maintaining a well-balanced business mix that we expect to generate after-tax underwriting returns in the low to mid teens.
This translates to a return on equity in the high teens.
Frank will discuss the returns in more detail but it is important to note that in order to maintain our return threshold we have opted not to compete with certain pricing discounts in our industry.
We believe this is a sensible strategy that is in the best long-term interest of our company.
As discussed during our Investor Day MI pricing since 2009 has been one of increased granularity using a more risk based approach than was used in pre-crisis years.
As we also discussed during the Investor Day's we filed a lender-based single rate card that is expected to increase returns and help us to remain competitive with the SAC.
We plan to begin using this rate card in the first quarter.
In terms of other pricing approaches announced recently within our industry we take a measured approach to evaluate and consider each approach with the continued focus on balance and discipline with an eye towards achieving targeted returns.
While our decision not to compete for certain business has impacted our market shares we have often been able to and expect to further mitigate the impact with the addition of new customers and by managing the amount of business we receive from existing customers.
In fact over the past 10 years we have successfully shifted our customer mix based on changing market dynamics.
We've been successful in doing so based on our customer relationships and our reputation as a respected and valued MI partner.
Today we are focused on increasing our relationship and share of business from credit unions where we see opportunity for new high-quality business while also maintaining our strong relationship with banks and independent mortgage lenders.
We believe the success of our strategy is illustrated in our results.
We wrote new flow MI business in 2015 that was among the highest in our companies nearly 40-year history grew our mortgage insurance in force and improved the credit quality of our MI portfolio.
We continue to strive for the best balance of new business volume and return in our capital to create a strong MI franchise and lasting shareholder value.
Turning to the mortgage origination market we expect total MI market in 2016 to be comparable to 2015.
This is based on a projected decline in refinancing this year that will impact overall origination volume yet we also continue to expect increased penetration from purchase originations.
With private mortgage insurance at 3 to 4 times more likely to be used than for refis.
According to a recent Harris poll the number of Americans who dream of owning a home increased again over last year with the largest jump among millennials.
And according to a study conducted by RealtyTrac buying remains a better financial decision than renting nationwide even if mortgage rates increase.
And both of these studies cited the greatest obstacle to homeownership as having enough money for down payment.
We believe that these further demonstrates the value of and the demand for private mortgage insurance in the foreseeable future.
Turning to the credit environment.
The combined impact of an improving economy and our continued focus on proactively removing legacy MI business resulted in a year-over-year decline in Radian’s total number of primary delinquent loans of 22% as you can see on slide 21.
You can also see that our primary default comp decreased to 35 303 loans.
And slide 22 shows that our primary default rate fell again to 4%.
Based on positive experience in our default population we reduced the default to claim rate on new notices to 13%.
Slide 14 shows that for the year ended December 31 2015 the earned premiums left incurred losses from our 2009 and later MI vintages was $630 million handily outpacing 2014 and nearly doubling 2013.
A substantial level of new insurance written in 2012 through 2014 will drive most of our premiums for the next few years.
This was a driver of our strong 2015 financial results and is expected to be the foundation of our future profitable growth.
Our mortgage and real estate services segment had fourth quarter 2015 total service revenues that increased to $38 million from $35 million in fourth quarter 2014.
For the full year 2015 service revenues were $157 million.
What’s most important to remember is that the services segment adds a diversified source of fee-based revenue for Radian and the Clayton family of companies broadens our participation in the residential mortgage market value chain with services that complement our MI business.
We continue to make progress in deepening our customer relationships and differentiating Radian among our mortgage insurance peers through the services portfolio products.
You can clearly see this more clearly on slide 30 and Radian's value circle which is used by our sales teams to showcase the breadth and depth of products we offer across the spectrum of mortgage and real estate services.
This includes our recent acquisitions of ValuAmerica a title insurance and appraisal management company along with continued growth within Red Bell Real Estate.
Turning to the regulatory and legislative topics important to our mortgage insurance business.
PMIERs became effective on December 31 2015 and we believe that these new capital rules will help instill even greater confidence in the long-term value and roll of the MI industry.
As I mentioned earlier radiant was able to comply using only a portion of our holding company cash through the use of a surplus note.
This creative solution provides us with financial flexibility for the future.
While housing policy discussions on the Capitol Hill have not resulted in comprehensive reform we remain actively engaged with the key policymakers and hear support for the important role of private capital including private mortgage insurance in the future of housing finance.
Our industry achieved success in the fourth quarter of 2015 as Congress passed into law an extension of the mortgage insurance tax deduction that covers all premiums paid in 2015 through December 31 2016.
In addition a bill was introduced that could expand opportunity for millions of new potential homeowners by encouraging the GSEs to accept more modern and alternative credit scoring models.
That initiative is supported by dozens of consumer groups diverse segment groups and many real estate related companies including Radian.
Our efforts to expand our industries role in the GSC’s credit risk transfer programs through front end deeper cover private MI were bolstered with letters of support from consumer groups and all three diverse segment real estate groups.
This initiative would reduce GSC risk and potentially reduce costs for consumers as well.
The FHFA indicated that they will examine front-end risk sharing in 2016 which will include an opportunity for us to share analysis and data as part of a public common period.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Frank for details of our financial position.
Thank you S.A.
and good morning.
Before I get into the details of our results I would like to address a point of clarification to aid in the analysis of these results.
The comparability of our GAAP net income for 2015 and 2014 is materially impacted by two important 2014 events.
First the successful sale of radiant asset and second the reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
Please refer to our fourth quarter 2014 financial results and 10-K for details of these two significant events.
Our primary focus today will be on our operating results.
Moving now to the drivers of our revenue.
New insurance written was $9.1 billion during the quarter compared to $11.2 billion last quarter and $10 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Refinancing increased slightly to 17% of volume this quarter compared to 13% last quarter and 22% a year ago.
We expect our insurance in force to continue to grow in 2016 due to the increased mix of purchase volume relative to refinance.
Single premium business represented 29% of our total NIW in the fourth quarter up slightly from the third quarter.
Primary insurance in force increased to $175.6 billion during the quarter.
Our 12-month persistency declined from 79.2% in the third quarter of 2015 to 78.8% in the fourth quarter of 2015 as noted on Exhibit M.
To give more context with respect to how persistency is currently trending our annualized three-month persistency increased from 80.5% in the third quarter of 2015 to 81.8% in the fourth quarter.
Our twelve-month persistency was negatively impacted by our previously disclosed reconciliation with servicers resulting in unusually high cancellation that still remain in the twelve-month consistency calculation.
Earned premiums for the quarter were relatively flat from the third quarter and included approximately $13 million related to single premium acceleration which is also similar to the third quarter of 2015.
Investment income increased 3% in the quarter due to the further deployment of liquidity from the sale of our financial guaranty business earlier in the year.
Our portfolio yield increased 28 basis points or 13.6% for the fourth quarter-end from the third quarter-end.
Our portfolio duration also extended from approximately 3.8 years to 4.3 years.
Total service revenue for our mortgage and real estate services segment was approximately $38 million for the quarter as compared to $43 million in the third quarter.
As we have mentioned previously and as you can see on slide 29 we expect fluctuations in revenues in this business as the transactional and seasonal nature of these businesses contributes to greater volatility.
Moving now to our loss provision and credit quality the loss ratio was 25.1% this quarter as compared to 28.2% in the third quarter 2015 and 36.9% in the fourth quarter of last year.
We observed further improvements in new defaults which decreased 2% over new defaults in the fourth quarter of last year.
Full-year 2015 new defaults were 13% lower than in 2014.
And in 2016 we expect new defaults to decline at a similar rate.
We continue to see positive credit trends such as a decrease in the number of new defaults improved secure rates and a shift in composition of default inventory toward newer defaults.
Given trends observed during the quarter and noted on slide 21 we reduced our estimated claim rate on new defaults from 14% to approximately 13%.
As a reminder we have seen historical claim rates on new defaults as low as 10% though we do not expect more than a 100 basis point decrease in 2016.
The benefit of approximately $20 million from the positive development from the default to claim rate reduction was largely offset by the impact of the business decision related to our future loss mitigation practices.
These changes do not impact our conclusions regarding overall positive trends and credits.
I would like to take this opportunity to provide some discussion on how loss assumptions impact our new business returns.
We have historically provided the unlevered returns which are estimated in the low to mid teens using a loss assumption of approximately 20% which represents a through the cycle loss estimate.
Adding leverage to this result enhances the returns to the high teens.
These results are on our actual quarterly blended production.
The returns are less sensitive to loss assumption changes than some may appreciate.
As an illustration if we assumed double the projected losses which is more severe than what we would expect in a Moody’s S3 moderate recession scenario.
This would decrease projected unlevered returns by approximately 300 basis points still keeping our leveraged returns in the teens and above our cost and capital.
The capital assumption used for all our return calculations is the PMIERs capital.
Cumulative incurred loss ratios of business written after 2008 remain extremely low and are presented on webcast slide 16.
The primary mortgage insurance delinquency rate was 4% in the fourth quarter compared to 4.1% in the third quarter of 2015.
Our paid claims for the full year 2015 were $765 million inclusive of the [indiscernible] settlement and were higher than we had anticipated mainly due to more efficient claims processing which created an acceleration of claim payments.
Paid claims for 2016 are expected to decline to approximately $400 million to $450 million exclusive of any settlement related claims which are expected to be minimal in 2016.
Moving now to expenses.
Our operating expenses for the quarter were $59.6 million as compared to $65.1 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $85.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The fourth quarter of 2014 included several unusual items the most of significant of which was approximately $24 million related to long-term compensation expenses and other year-end bonus accruals.
The expenses for the fourth quarter of 2015 were positively impacted by several items that were immaterial individually but aggregate to approximately $6 million.
Our plans for further expense management are ongoing but to date we have identified approximately $12 million in annual expense reductions that are expected to be phased in throughout 2016.
We expect our fourth-quarter 2016 core operating expenses to be between 3% and 5% lower than our fourth quarter 2015 core operating expenses excluding $6 million of technology expenses associated with a significant investment in upgrading our systems.
We will continue to dig deeper and update our investments and analysts as we made this one of our top priorities this year.
Without providing specific guidance on our revenues we do expect our revenue to grow at a rate much higher than our expenses after these steps are taken thus providing the positive operating leverage we’ve targeted.
The reduction in our effective tax rate during the quarter was primarily driven by an increase in the estimated tax benefit associated with the June 2015 purchases of our convertible senior notes 2017.
During the quarter we recorded approximately $10 million of additional net tax benefit relating to this transaction which impacted our effective tax rate.
Moving now to capital we have made significant progress in enhancing our capital structure and complying with PMIERs all while continuing to plan for ways to create further shareholder value.
First I’ll speak to PMIERs and the related actions surrounding our compliance.
Radian Group transferred $325 million of cash and marketable securities to Radian guaranty in exchange for a surplus note.
Based on positive trends reflected in our capital projections we expect to seek redemption of a portion and possibly the entire note in 2016 and any remaining amounts in 2017.
Any amount redeemed will result in a corresponding increase to holding company liquidity.
While we could've satisfied the PMIERs financial requirement through a permanent capital contribution the surplus note is an effective way to optimize our capital and liquidity positions.
Early redemptions of the surplus note are subject to approval by the Pennsylvania Insurance Department.
Radian Group also contributed $50 million to an exclusive affiliated reinsurer of Radian Guaranty.
This reinsurer was established as part of a legal entity simplification initiative and is intended to support only internal reinsurance activity.
The combination of the surplus note and capital contribution provides Radian guaranty with its intended modest initial cushion above the projected amount required to satisfy the PMIERs financial requirement.
This cushion at the operating company level is expected to increase based in part on expected future financial performance at Radian Guaranty.
Therefore we expect that these capital contributions are the only contributions necessary to ensure future compliance.
In the unlikely event that further contributions from the holding company would be necessary we would expect to satisfy those with our currently available liquidity of approximately $340 million exclusive of cash used for the share repurchase program.
Additionally we have chosen to continue to expand our reinsurance strategies.
Radian Guaranty had the option to recapture a portion of $1.3 billion of risk seated under its existing second quota share reinsurance transaction on December 31 2015 and we chose not to recapture that risk.
We received a profit commission in 2015 of approximately $8 million based on performance of that reinsurance portfolio which has been recognized throughout 2015.
We also received an $8.5 million prepaid supplemental ceding commission the recognition of which has been deferred and is expected to be amortized as a reduction to our other operating expenses over approximately the next five years.
Radian Guaranty is also actively pursuing a reinsurance transaction that is intended to reduce our exposure on single premium policy.
While we continue to believe that single premium portfolio exposure of up to a third is manageable the opportunity in this landscape of a strong reinsurance market makes this transaction an effective capital alternative and should help balance our single premium policy exposure.
The transaction could affect up to 25% of our primary risk in force.
We will announce more details for this reinsurance program if and when it is completed which maybe as early as the first quarter of 2015.
It is also important to note that any PMIERs credit derived from this compensated reinsurance transaction will provide additional cushion to the operating company.
The capital and liquidity flexibility that these actions have provided also gave us confidence in announcing the recent board authorized share repurchase program of $100 million.
Given that our common stock has recently traded below our December 31 2015 book value of $12.07 we believe that acquiring our own stock in the open market at these levels provides a better return for our shareholders than the alternative uses of capital.
We look to complete the restructuring our balance sheet when market conditions are appropriate.
As previously mentioned during our Investor Day we would like to eliminate the convertible securities from our capital structure at a time when market conditions and our liquidity forecast would support such an action.
After giving affect the aforementioned actions we will target approximately $300 million of available liquidity of the holding company but may temporarily dip below the target depending on the actual timing of our capital management activities throughout 2016.
And now I would like to turn the call back over to S.A.
Thank you Frank.
Let me summarize the important takeaways for 2015.
I’m pleased with our continued ability to rise more high-quality MI business maintain our price discipline to generate mid to upper teens return on equity improve the credit quality of our existing MI portfolio grow our mortgage insurance in in-force and create a diversified source of fee-based income through our services segment that also deepens our relationship with our MI customers.
Our solid 2015 financial results and credit performance represent the powerful demonstration of our embedded strength.
Most importantly we believe we are better positioned today to drive long-term value than ever before.
And now operator we’d like to open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from the line of Eric Beardsley of Goldman Sachs.
Hi thank you.
I just wanted to clarify some of the credit commentary in terms of your expectations for new notice improvement.
Could you just repeat I guess the percentage improvement that you expect next year? Is that consistent with the fourth-quarter levels or the full year 2015 levels as you look out at the 16 new notices? Sure so we stated that the full-year 2015 new defaults were 13% lower than in 2014 and in 2016 we expect the new defaults to decline at a similar rate.
Got it.
So as we look at the fourth quarter trends obviously that pace was somewhat slower is there anything notable that we should think about their and I guess relative to what you saw in the quarter what else contributed to your decision to lower the claim rate? Yes.
So I wouldn't say that there was anything notable.
In fact again on the annual basis it was consistent with our expectations.
What I would say about the reduction in the role rate is it is wholly consistent with what we're seeing in the overall positive trends in credit quality.
And so what you're seeing there is simply a reflection of that view.
Okay.
And then just quickly I guess just to clarify also the OpEx commentary.
So if we were looking at the fourth quarter level adjusting for 6 million of the small items the improvement that we are looking at of that level is 3% to 5% but you are also going to have an additional 6 million next year from a technology project did I understand that correctly? That’s correct.
So for the fourth quarter of 2015 the way to think about it is that we have what I would call core operating expenses on a consolidated basis of roughly $65 million.
And so that 3% to 5% reduction on a 4Q 2016 over 4Q 2015 basis would be off of that $65 million.
The OpEx that I had mentioned about our modernization project will be called out separately and as we mentioned in our Investor Day the expenses associated with modernization are really duplicative to our existing platform and therefore as we operate during this time period of redundancy will call that out separately.
Okay great thank you.
Okay thank you.
Next question from the line of Mark DeVries of Barclays please go ahead.
Thanks.
First I want to clarify a point.
Frank I think you indicated that the imply claims rate on new notices was 13% but we are calculating a lower number.
When I think about I think the gross primary incurs were $59 million new notices and defaults were [11.7000] so that gets you to about an incurred per new default of little over $5000 which versus $49 000 average claim implies kind of an implied claims rate closer to 10%.
Where is the disconnect there? Where are we off in that calculation? That is a great question.
What I would suggest is that maybe we take that off-line and point you to some of our disclosures that can help maybe highlight that difference for you.
Okay but at a higher level are you seeing have you seen about I think you indicated you are at 13% now you don't expect more than 100 basis point improvement this year are you seeing 10% on the truly new notices on new vintages versus the higher level on some of the older vintages and therefore as that continues to burn down it's going to take time to get from 13% to 10%? Let me just make one quick comment and I'll turn it over to Derek for some details.
I think the overarching conclusion that I want to make sure it becomes very clear on this call is that our overall credit trends are positive.
And so what you're seeing in all of our actions are consistent with that conclusion and consistent with the evidence that we have but to your particular question I will turn over to Derek.
Sure.
In terms of the new vintages I mean generally what we're seeing is they tend to cure at a higher rate I would say than the legacy portfolio so one would expect as you see the book season and more of the default inventory moved to the newer vintages you would probably see that rate decrease on a relative basis.
Okay.
And then finally I just want to clarify a point.
I think you indicated Frank that you're going to target I guess a minimum liquidity of $300 million at the HoldCo given where you are now does that imply you're going to need some more cash up to the HoldCo through the redemption of the surplus notes before you would be able to use the full $100 million stock repurchase authorization? No.
We actually maintain sufficient liquidity of the parent company to deal with the share repurchase program.
So you could do that rapidly if you wanted them and the stock is obviously at a pretty compelling level here that we hope will not persist for that long.
And if you could cut a front-end load that as opposed to spreading it out I think it would be ideal for you guys.
Yeah obviously the share price here is very attractive but the timing of the actual purchases will depend on market and certain other conditions but the current trading price certainly represents an attractive opportunity.
Okay but there are no liquidity issues that will impact the pace at which you are able to buy that back? Yes that is correct.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Okay thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Mackenzie Kelley of Zelman &amp; Associates please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
S.A.
with some of the industry moving away from cost subsidized pricing can we take your earlier comment to imply that at this time Radian doesn’t intend to pursue a flatter pricing strategy and really at this point what would prevent you from adopting a more risk-based model to better adjust to PMIERs? As I said we do follow a granular pricing approach which is in fact risk-based pricing.
If your question specifically is do we want to go further and look at some of the tools that others use we will evaluate that.
At this point we believe we can use those tools if we wanted to but we haven’t made a decision.
In terms of this next part of your question I'll ask Frank to answer that but point to the fact that we take a very measured and disciplined approach to pricing.
And I would just add to that as S.A.
said we are constantly evaluating a wide range of options in the context of the competitive landscape but what we have evidenced in the past with our LP singles card change here recently that will become effective in March is that we have effectively flattened the card but increased the returns overall.
And so as we are evaluating different options and opportunities we are very mindful of and placed great emphasis on the returns and so as we look at potential future changes.
We will always be very mindful and place a very very heavy emphasis on the returns.
Got it.
Thanks for that.
And Teresa maybe this is for you.
Just a few months now into trade have you heard from customers any feedback regarding the pros and cons of the transparent rate card versus the black box strategy here has that really turned out to be a non-issue thus far? Hi McKenzie it actually has - we haven’t heard any issues at this point.
We've had some discussions with customers I think they’ve been so focused on their own issues around this and the fact that it’s slowed down closings a little bit that we haven’t heard that there is a differentiator there.
Great thank you.
Okay thank you.
And the next question is from the line of Bose George of KBW please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
It is just another follow-up on pricing.
Obviously there are several rate cards out there from competitors with the slider pricing I mean is it fair to say that you think returns from those rate cards don't meet your hurdle rate which is the driver of not adopting something similar? Yeah I'm not going to speak specifically to our competitors rate cards but just framing at the context of what I just described which is that we are placing an emphasis on the returns.
We think that the returns that S.A.
mentioned of low-to-mid teens are very achievable and that’s what we will be targeting as we evaluate any future pricing actions.
But I think what you would notice by our recent actions is that we maintain a very high level of discipline here and we have not been quick to change so that we can see what the reaction is from the competitive landscape.
Okay great.
And then actually your comment about the market share impact of the pricing position has that already been seen in the data or are you speaking prospectively.
Do you think there could be further market share impact going forward? Yeah.
The market share impact that we’ve referenced is historical again further evidence of our discipline.
And so we have let a little bit of market share slip we have maintained strong returns.
And we are certainly mindful of that historic experience but what we are looking to in the future are different ways to grow our market share.
And are confident we will be able to do that.
Okay great.
And then just actually one more on the pricing.
In terms of discussions with lenders how are lenders managing multiple rate cards some people with the black box et cetera.
How are they seeing the process? Yeah.
Teresa? I think each lender is taking their own approach to that.
So some lenders are using the black box along with rate cards others have opted not to use a black box at all.
So it really does vary by lender in terms of their own operations and systems and just their own strategy of how they want to approach it.
Okay great.
Let me just sneak in one more on the buyback is an accelerated share repurchase one of the considerations? What we spoke to on our press release is more of an open market approach to the share repurchase program.
Okay great thanks.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from the line of Douglas Harter of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thank.
Just one more on the holding company liquidity when you think about debt maturities how far out will you sort of account for those and factor that into your $300 million liquidity target? Sure so I will answer that question in the context of some of our previously stated goals of returning to investment-grade.
And one of the factors that they look at is your ability to deal with upcoming maturities.
And so when we’ve targeted that $300 million it is within the context of what we expect our future debt maturity schedule to look like.
Okay.
And then have you started to have conversations or do you expect to have conversations with Pennsylvania about the ability to when you might be able to get start to get regular dividends out of the insurance subsidiary? That is something again our approach to managing liquidity at the parent company from the operating company was handled through the surplus note.
The ordinary dividends as far as what the map - required map is for that to take place we are many years away from having that positive unassigned surplus.
And so we don't feel at this time that there is a need to request any special dividend if that’s your question.
And expect that that ordinary dividend ability to return to us in six or so years.
Great thank you.
Okay thank you.
And next question from Geoffrey Dunn of Dowling &amp; Partners please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning Geoff.
First question is on singles pricing.
Obviously you and others in the industry have increased pricing materially in response to the higher capital charges.
Any color on lenders particularly the non-banks initial reactions to the higher costs? I will ask Teresa for some commentary on that.
But I don't get the sense that there has been.
Teresa? Yeah I think Geoff that frankly with the PMIERs changes particularly with the changes that happened in June with higher capital charges for singles there was already a lot of discussion with lenders about the fact that there would need to be some adjustment there.
So frankly I don't think they are surprised or we certainly haven't seen any surprise.
Okay.
And then with respect to BPMI pricing you have risk-based capital charges on a much more granule level from PMIERs such that against prior rate cards it just doesn't the line and ends up getting progressively more expensive on a relative basis for the higher FICO's.
Why isn't a realignment of a BPMI rate card just basically inevitable here across the entire industry? It seems like you're now dealing with apples and oranges given how the capital charges are laid out under PMIERS.
Jeff I would point you to the comments that we’ve made about expected returns in the mid-teens.
And just highlight that that is on PMIERs capital.
So from our vantage point we don't think there is a technical need to change the BPMI card no certainly the competitive landscape may dictate some change in the future but we don't see a technical reason to need to change that.
But I think you said on the lender card you can get to more granularity in pricing and still maintain or improve returns right? That is correct.
We are seeing improved returns with the widen rate card that’s correct.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Okay thank you.
And next question is from the line of Vivek Agrawal of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning thanks.
Given that the FICO scores are above pre-crisis levels and the calculations seem to have been eased on the margin with things like the past missed medical payments now being forgiven in calculations.
From a risk management standpoint have do you look at FICO score improvements due to items such as this relative to the passage of time were the improvement in the underlying borrowers? Great question.
I always dare to respond to that.
Sure well in terms of our portfolio the GSEs haven't converted over they are utilizing that – the newer FICO system so it’s not really impacting.
So from a modeling perspective kind of what we used on a historical basis for FICO still applies.
Okay.
And then moving on are you seeing any weakness from energy-related geographies in your miss payments? This is Derek.
I will take that one.
We haven't seen any impact in terms of the portfolio.
Obviously we're monitoring the situation closely.
When we look at it I would separate two things the impact on the overall economy and we think for consumers nationwide it’s probably a positive.
You will need to see that bleeding I think over time.
When we look at that concentration I would say in oil-related states and I want to make a couple of points.
One is I think the economies in oil-related states are less dependent from a job perspective.
On the oil industry we’ve certainly seen that also.
I would say home prices are more in line with fundamentals than what we saw let’s say in the 80s in the oil patch crisis.
The other important point is we really look at it on an MSA-level.
And so what we look at is MSAs where their concentrations in the oil-related jobs which we define as more than three percentage and when we look at that in our portfolio our exposure to those oil-concentrated MSAs is less than 4% of our overall portfolio.
We run various stress test through the portfolio oil-related stresses and when we do that given the relatively low concentration to those MSAs it doesn't really materially impact our projected losses for the overall portfolio.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question it is from the line of Chris Gamaitoni of Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking my call.
Just one clarifying point.
I was wondering what the future loss mitigation practice is that you said you changed were? And how exactly that impacted the reserve this quarter? Yeah so the loss mitigation practices really just impacts our assumptions around decisions and denials.
And I think what you'll notice now in any quarter where you make a key assumption change the largest impact is in the quarter of change.
And so we would expect to see on that on a go-forward basis is relatively small changes in that.
Okay that’s perfect.
And then on the BPMI rate card discussion relative to market share so if you to make a change why would you not be adversely selected where other competitors may have lower prices at the very high FICO scores leading to a mix of business kind of to the more called 680 to 720 area? Great.
So it’s a great question and really what we're saying is that we have not reached a conclusion as it relates to how to address the competitive landscape for BPMI.
What we'll continue to say and continue to illustrate and demonstrate is that pricing disciple is the focus on returns and that’s the approach that we will take.
Perfect.
And can you remind us what the structure of the remaining 2019 converts are if you were to do something with those is it a call premium? I just don't remember what you would have to do the technical aspects of dealing with those? Right.
So there is a call feature if the share price is above a certain strike price – of $13.78.
and it is our option as to the mix of consideration related to how we settle those but during the quarter our share price has averaged at a price below that.
Certainly.
Well thank you so much for my call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question it’s from the line of Al Copersino of Columbia Management.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
I wanted to also get a clarifying question and if I could.
I believe you said the sub is now at the intended cushion level above PMIERs but that cushion will increase of course as you generate earnings.
I know it's very early days and you probably haven't come to a final decision on this but have you come close to deciding where that cushion should be how large it should be beyond the $300 million of liquidity get to HoldCo with the sub…? Yeah so what we’ve described is initially we wanted to have a modest cushion which we achieved at year-end.
And that was really the purpose of utilizing the surplus notes.
Because the surplus note provides us with a faster opportunity to return cash to the holding company once that cushion builds.
So we again expect that cushion to grow organically over time.
The good news is once that cushion builds to a sufficient level we have the opportunity to return capital and cash back up to the parent company.
But as a percentage of required PMIERs capital at the sub you haven't decided specifically that we want to keep a 10% cushion or 15% cushion what have you? No we have not.
And again our primary purpose for year-end – our primary goal was to make sure that it was modest at the operating company because it will build organically.
And then as we think about cushions and managing cushions on an ongoing basis we will be maintaining that approximate $300 million at the HoldCo which is really the cushion if you will that we manage too.
Right right.
One follow up on that.
The PMIERs capital requirements are procyclical.
Do you envision the size of your buffer changing over time as well throughout the cycle? Yeah I would describe it as any buffer that we would need would be accounted for when we do the calculation for the excess on each quarter.
So again we don't expect a need to push down any further capital into the operating company.
And that any of those buffers if you will will be accommodated through organic means.
Right okay.
One last if I could sneak that one in on pricing.
Just to make sure I understand you.
You referenced I think are two different things.
You referenced some what’s been some competitive pricing at times in the industry I can think of particular few months ago I believe one competitor cut pricing but it seems like the conversation the we've been having on this call about rate cards is a separate issue that you are finding an ability to change your rate card while increasing your expected returns.
So I see you doing that.
That element of what some competitors have done but I see you also secondly not responding to the one-off price cuts that we've seen in the past.
Have I summarized that correctly those two different pieces of the pricing dynamic? Let me restate it a little bit to describe what we’ve actually done.
So historically we have operated in the competitive landscape given what I would call historic pricing actions from our competitors.
And that’s been reflected in our previous statements our previous results and our discussion around returns et cetera.
What some of the discussion today has been around is both the lender-paid singles and also borrow-paid monthlies.
And we have made a change on the lender-paid to increase the overall returns to card even though we flattened it if you will and we have not yet concluded any pricing changes will be necessary for the borrower-paid.
Okay.
Got it thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from the line of Sean Dargan of McQuarrie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
I'm giving your – the statement you just made about not changing the borrower-paid rate card.
All else being equal would you expect new insurance written to be higher or lower in 2016 versus 2015? So I will answer your last question first.
For new insurance written we expect it to be comparable to 2015.
What I said about the borrower-paid is that we have not yet concluded whether any action will be required or what action we would take if it is required.
Okay.
And then I will try to speak in general terms here.
If there was a mortgage insurance company that was part of a larger well-capitalized parent that is no longer going to get the full capital support of that parent do you think it would make sense that that company raised pricing to achieve adequate returns or do you have any thoughts on what the impact of a new publicly traded mortgage insurer could be? Yes.
Actually we find it very positive.
We would find it very positive for us in the industry for any company that was [indiscernible] a public company – publicly traded company it would level the playing field increase transparency and hopefully potentially increase the pricing discipline.
Okay.
Thanks.
And one last question it seems like you're striving for an investment-grade rating.
Do you get the sense that investment-grade financial strength ratings of the insurance subs are becoming more important to your lender partners? It’s certainly something that we think is very important and there have been some instances of I will call it midsized financial institutions that we deal with where it is important and candidly that is one of the levers the we expect to be able to pull hopefully in the not-too-distant future for regaining some market shares.
So for some it is important but it hasn’t practically impaired our ability to successfully write new business.
Okay.
It does not impede us from doing the business we are doing today.
But on the margin it could be a plus in doing more business going forward if we have the investment-grade ratings.
Got it thank you.
And the reason I ask is I think there's a real possibility that a parent of another mortgage insurer could have its credit ratings downgraded and if – there can only be so many notches in between the insurance sub-financial strength ratings and that of the parent and if Genworth is downgraded I’m just wondering if that would impair their – there maybe [indiscernible] some platforms.
Again level playing field and transparency are good for all of us.
And therefore we welcome any development that would take privately held companies and make them public and put them on under the same scrutiny and same capital standers that the rest of us operate under.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the final question for today is from the line of Patrick Keeley of FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Most of my questions have been answered but just kind of wanted to talk about I know in the past you've talked about the potential for kind of cross-selling with your Clayton products to existing MI customers and using that as a means to deepen your relationship.
So just kind of like maybe an update that and if you have any maybe numbers to put around that I think would be very helpful.
Sure.
Joe do u want to take that? Sure.
Thanks Patrick.
I think we are very heartened by the progress and attraction that we've made so far in 2015.
We put in our presentation that value circle.
We share that with all of our Radian insurance clients.
That always has a positive impact.
And we are really looking forward to 2016.
We think that we're going to continue to pick up traction and will start to see a meaningful relative impact in that.
Okay.
And maybe just sticking with Clayton and kind of the value circle I mean as we kind of look at kind of the market in 2016 and kind of how things have shaped up so far maybe where do you see the biggest revenue opportunities for Clayton and maybe what’s the difference there as opposed to when Clinton was acquired by Radian? Sure.
While there is no doubt that the follow-on acquisitions that we have done were done with the purpose of providing our clients with more products and services across the value chain.
That clearly has started to take hold.
Our clients when they talk to us about that value circle they now say that now you can do more things with us and for us.
That has become important as the regulations have forced people to really be fully aware of who their vendors are and how that works.
And so while I wouldn't say that there is any one particular area within that value circle where we will see more or less business the sum total of all of those services I think will make us much more meaningful to our clients and we should see some broad impact on that over time.
All right thank you guys.
Okay thank you.
And now back to Chief Executive Officer S.A.
Ibrahim for closing comments.
Thank you operator.
And I thank you all for participating in today's call.
And we look forward to seeing you again on the next call.
Thank you.
Okay thank you.
And that concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.