Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) I would know like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin Ms.
Garofalo.
Thanks Simon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the first quarter ended March 31 2011.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information and factors that could affect the company’s results from time to time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements as set forth in the company’s filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and our 2011 first quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we have discussed with you in the past Revlon’s vision is glamour excitement and innovation through high-quality products at affordable prices.
And this underpins everything we do.
We realize this vision by executing the five key elements of our business strategy and they are building our strong brands developing our organizational capability driving our company to act globally increasing our operating profit and cash flow and improving our capital structure.
We are carrying positive momentum into 2011 with respect to our strategy and have a keen focus on delivering on our strategic goals of profitability growing our business.
With regard to building our strong brands during the first quarter of 2011 we made progress in a number of areas.
From a topline perspective we are very pleased with our net sales growth of over 9% during the quarter.
We delivered improved year-over-year net sales performance in each of our five regions which demonstrates the focus of our regional teams on delivering global growth.
Our brands performed well in the marketplace with particularly strong performance by some of our new products including Revlon ColorBurst Lipgloss Revlon Top Speed Nail Enamel and Almay Intense i- Smoky-i kit.
We have discussed for some time that we believe the drivers of profitable growth are first innovative high-quality consumer preferred brand offering second effective brand communication including appropriate levels of advertising and promotion and third superb execution with our retail partners to provide optimal in-store offerings.
Our continued emphasize and key focus on these drivers is of utmost importance to our objective of sustaining topline momentum.
Also with respect to our focus on growth we added the Sinful Colors brand to our portfolio in March of this year.
Sinful Colors is a fashion color cosmetics brand primarily in nail color which is sold today in mass cosmetics retails in the U.S.
and certain markets outside the U.S.
We will continue to utilize the successful Sinful Colors business model namely speed-to-market with on-trend and exciting new product introductions and highly effective in-store promotional programs.
Going forward we will evaluate opportunities to drive further growth with this brand.
With regard to our strategic objectives of increasing our operating profit and cash flow and improving our capital structure we continue to make progress.
We sustain competitive operating margins while significantly increasing our advertising investment to enhance our marketplace competitiveness.
Also with respect to our capital structure Moody’s announced in April that it upgraded our corporate credit ratings.
And lastly before I turn the call over to Chris let me remind you about our Annual EIF Revlon Run/Walk For Women which will be held in New York City this Saturday April 30 <sup> </sup>and Los Angeles on Saturday May 7.
We at Revlon are very proud of our longstanding and continued philanthropic support for women’s health initiatives and the fight against women’s cancers.
Over the years Revlon has helped to raise millions of dollars for research education and efficacy.
Every dollar we help raise puts us one step closer to finding more treatment options and a cure for women’s cancers.
If you would like to donate to this cause or register to participate please visit <a href="http://www.revlonrunwalk.org" rel="nofollow"><u>www.revlonrunwalk.org</u></a>.
And with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies by region and by brand.
Our net sales include the acquisition of Sinful Colors effective March 17 through the end of the first quarter the results of which were not material in the period.
Net sales in the first quarter were $333.2 million an increase of 7% versus the first quarter of last year.
The increase was primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics as well as Almay color cosmetics fragrances and other beauty care products.
These increases were partially offset by low net sales of Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
Before moving onto regional sales performance for the quarter I’d like to take a moment to address the recent disaster in Japan.
We are thankful to report that our employees in Japan were not directly affected.
We are currently assessing the potential impacts of these events and the aftermath in our global supply-chain and our operations in Japan for the remainder of 2011.
In the first quarter of 2011 these events did not have a material impact on our net sales operating profit operating cash flow or supply-chain.
We will continue to monitor the potential impact in our business and evaluate some foreseeable alternatives to mitigate any possible impact.
Now moving on to retail performance starting with the United States; net sales increased $4.1 million or 2.3% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics which were partially offset by low net sales of Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
Net sales of Revlon color cosmetics increased in part due to lower promotional allowances as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
As we continue to optimize our brand support mix between advertising promotional activity and other drivers to be more effective in the marketplace.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased $4.1 million or 8.9% primarily due to the higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China and certain distributor markets.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales increased $4.8 million or 11.2% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Mitchum anti-perspirant deodorants and fragrances both in the UK and South Africa.
In Latin America net sales increased $6.9 million or 34.5% primarily due to higher net sales across our portfolio of brands in the region.
The higher net sales in Venezuela including the impact of higher selling prices given market conditions and inflation accounted for approximately one-half of the $6.9 million net sales increase in the region.
Lastly in Canada net sales increased $1.6 million or 11% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics.
Now moving on to performance by brand starting with Revlon color cosmetics; net sales increased in each of our five regions during the quarter as compared to the prior-year.
Recent new products included in the Face segment Revlon Colorstay Aqua Mineral makeup which is the first Mineral foundation that captures the hydrating benefits of coconut water in a lightweight powder foundation.
Revlon ColorStay’s patented longwearing technology helps keeps skin looking luminous and radiant all day.
In the Eye segment the Revlon customized franchise consists of a mascara as well as an eye shadow with liner.
CustomEyes Mascara provides two different lash looks length and drama or length and definition with one revolutionary adjustable brush.
Revlon CustomEyes Shadow &amp; Liner is offered in a range of expertly coordinated pallets each with four shadows and one liner that enables consumers to create and customize their look with ease.
In the lip segment Revlon ColorBurst Lipgloss is a luxurious new lip-gloss that contains our revolutionary elastic color technology and micropore crystal formula which distributes rich color pigments evenly for weightless color and vivid mirror-like shine.
Continuing in the lip segment I am pleased that the Cosmetics Executive Women’s Organization has announced a Just Bitten Lipstain + Balm was named as the finalist for the upcoming Insider’s Choice Beauty Award in the U.S.
market.
This award recognizes the most innovative beauty products of the year as selected by the CEW’s membership of approximately 4 000 beauty industry professionals from over 1 100 companies.
And lastly in the nail segment Revlon Top Speed is an advanced line of nail color that dries in 60 seconds.
Top Speed has been introduced in several countries where it is performing very well in the marketplace and we have further global launch funds for the balance of 2011.
Moving on the Almay brand net sales increased year-over-year.
We have seen positive momentum in certain markets on the hills of our recent new product introductions.
Notably Almay wake-up makeup a light-weight powder foundation that uses encapsulated water to instantly deliver cooling hydration to sooth the skin while providing full coverage and giving a healthy well rested glow.
And Almay Intense i Smoky-i kit which helps consumers achieve the smoky eye look with ease.
Smoky-i is performing extremely well in the marketplace.
In women’s hair color Revlon ColorSilk net sales declined driven by low net sales in the U.S.
partially offset by higher net sales outside the U.S.
as compared to the same period last year.
And the anti-perspirant deodorants as we stated in February we continue to support the Mitchum brand and in 2011 we plan to build a Mitchum’s established efficacy positioning with the introduction of Mitchum Advanced Control containing fresh defense technology.
Advanced Control will be supported by new advertising creative that is currently being produced.
And finally with regard to Revlon beauty tools we continue to bring innovative new products to the market.
And through the first quarter of 2011 we are pleased with the performance of our new designer collection Slant-Tip Tweezer and Revlon Crazy Shine a Nail Buffer that gives bare nails 400% more shine instantly.
In addition I’m pleased to announce that Revlon Crazy Shine Nail Buffer has been named the best beauty buy for 2011 by InStyle Magazine.
Revlon Crazy Shine was chosen this year by Hollywood’s top beauty pros as a Get Gorgeous Essential.
Now I’ll turn it over to Steven to walk you through the financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
As we have already discussed our net sales performance I will start with gross margin performance in the quarter.
In the first quarter of 2011 our gross profit margin improved to 66% versus 64.4% in the first quarter of 2010.
Gross margin in the 2011 first quarter was positively impacted by lower material cost higher sales levels resulting in favorable fixed overhead absorption lower pension expenses and lower cost related to inventory obsolescence and sales returns.
These positive impacts were partially offset by unfavorable changes in sales mix during the quarter.
In addition Operating income in the first quarter of 2011 was $44.7 million compared to $45.4 million in the same period last year and adjusted EBITDA was $60.7 million compared to $61.1 million in the same period last year.
The benefit of higher net sales and gross profit in the first quarter of 2011 was offset by higher SG&amp;A expenses as noted earlier.
Net income in the first quarter of 2011 was $10.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share compared to net income of $2.2 million or $0.04 per diluted share in the same period last year.
The 2011 first quarter provision for income taxes was $2.7 million higher than 2010 primarily due to a higher effective tax rate in the United States.
As we discussed in our last earnings call in February the increase in the provision for income taxes resulting from the higher effective tax rate in the U.S.
is not expected to affect cash taxes paid in 2011.
Net income in the first quarter of 2010 included $9.7 million of expenses associated with our March 2010 refinancing and a $2.8 million foreign currency loss related to the re-measurement of Revlon Venezuela's balance sheet as a result of Venezuela's currency devaluation.
Net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2011 was $24.1 million compared to $31.2 million in the same period last year and free cash flow was $21.7 million compared to $28.2 million in the same period a year ago.
Net cash used in investing activities was $41.4 million compared to $3.0 million in the same period last year.
The increase in cash used was primarily due to the Sinful Colors acquisition in the first quarter of '11.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of March 31 2011 was $162.5 million comprised of $56.1 million of available cash and $106.4 million available under our revolving credit facilities.
Our revolver was undrawn as of March 31 2011.
Now moving on to balance of 2011; consistent with our historical practice I'm going to provide certain 2011 cash flow information none of which has changed from the guidance we provided you during our last earnings call.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $20 million.
Permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $30 million.
Cash interest expense can be estimated by reference to our public filings which detail the composition of our capital structure and applicable interest rates.
And lastly cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $20 million.
As a remainder with respect to operating cash flow in general the timing of these cash flow items just noted as well as other working capital items can vary from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Good morning.
My first question on the Sinful Colors acquisition can you give us a little more color in terms of revenue and potentially EBITDA what they did last year? Yes.
Grant good morning.
Sinful Colors as you know there is a complete disclosure of certain information in our 10-Q which we filed this morning.
We’re not going to disclose as we don’t with our other brands.
We’re not going to disclose revenue or EBITDA or EBITDA targets for the business.
But what I can tell you is the following.
We paid $39 million to buy the business and that included not only the Sinful Colors brand but also two other smaller brands Wild and Crazy cosmetics and FreshMinerals cosmetics.
As I mentioned the Sinful Colors brand is a nice complement to our portfolio sold primarily in the U.S.
but also outside the U.S.
So we are not going to disclose revenue and EBITDA targets or stock information.
We did pay $39 million for it.
Okay.
In terms of other acquisitions how would you rate your appetite right now? Well our strategy as you know is to profitably grow the business and so we believe there are opportunities both with our existing brands and to potentially look at other acquisitions.
I think we’ve shown that with our organic brands that we can drive profitable growth as we did in 2010 and the first quarter of 2011.
So my view is that if there are opportunities out there we’d certainly evaluate them.
Our focus now is to drive on our organic brands and to transition Sinful Colors into our portfolio.
Okay.
My last question switching gears a bit it certainly seems like the increased investments in advertising and brand building are paying off on the topline in terms of year-over-year increase going forward.
Do you still expect to see that continue to ramp up at a pretty good rate? What we said throughout 2010 is as we shifted the focus of the company’s strategy from managing costs and driving profitable growth what we said is that we would expect to increase the advertising spending and we did that throughout the balance of 2010 the first quarter of 2011.
That’s a key part of our strategy to build our strong brands.
We made an investment that we have from period to period.
It’s going to vary depending on timing of new product launches within the marketplace and competitive conditions.
What I will tell you is that we are spending at competitive levels both above the line and below the line and we’ll continue to do that throughout 2011.
So would you say that the big ramp up that happened in 2010 and Q1 ‘11 is kind of over from the financial standpoint as we think about how to look at the company going forward? Well what I will tell you is from Q2 last year we call that specifically that we expected increased spending in advertising in the following quarter and that was done through the fourth quarter of 2010.
We didn’t make such a statement in the first quarter of this year.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I wanted to ask a question just on the competitive market what you are seeing in terms of competitive promotions and whether they are picking up or abating at all.
Hi Carla.
Well as I think we said a number of times before this is a highly competitive category.
I wouldn’t say that we’ve seen an increase or decrease.
It continues to be continuously competitive.
Everybody is competing very hard on product innovation on the quality they are advertising and their in-store promotion.
And as we have said in the past we are very competitive in those regions.
Do you give us sense that display spend is similar to competition or there people competing on different levels.
There is no information available on display spending in the marketplace but I will say is that in-store as we mentioned in Q4 of last year we are very focused on improving our in-store display presence and also our permanent wall merchandising presence.
So that is what we’re focusing on.
I think what you will see Carla is to build on Chris’s point what you will see in U.S.
businesses since the middle of last year we’ve really focused on improving the execution in-store and improving the quality of our in-store displays and making sure that that’s consistent from our 360 degree standpoint with all of the advertising materials that we have on our new product launches.
And so our objective is when a consumer walks in to store we want them to see the Revlon brands Revlon Almay et cetera displayed being the most impact full to attract the consumer to buy our product versus the competitive product and I think we are making some good progress there.
Okay great.
And then I may have missed this in the beginning did you talk about what you’re shipping versus the sell-through has been and whether it is relatively even at this point.
We don’t talk about shipping versus sell-through Carla we talk about net sales.
What I can tell you is that is that we work very closely with the retail partners to ensure that we have got the optimal levels of inventory across those channels.
We haven’t seen any significant jumps in inventory in the quarter and jumps in the retail environment.
Okay great thank you.
The next question comes from the line of David Wu with Telsey Advisory Group.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David  Hi.
Just have a couple of questions.
First the EMEA and Latin America were nice surprises in the quarter.
Can you talk about whether it’s driven more by expanded distribution your stronger sell-throughs or through new launches? I mean just secondly on input cost we’ve heard from some of your peers that they’ve seen a slight a bit of an increase I just want to get your thoughts on what you’re seeing with the cost.
Thank you.
Okay.
Hi David.
So with regards to EMEA and Latin America a couple of things.
One as we’ve said when we talked about the bands we’re pleased with our new product performance the innovation that we brought to marketplace in all our markets.
As we said we’ve been focusing on the execution install and its relation to the 360 degree marketing campaign.
So I think what you’re saying is the result of those things happening in EMEA and Latin America.
One thing as I mentioned in my remarks in Latin America is approximately one half of the $6.9 million net sales increase in the region is due to the impact of higher selling prices given market conditions and inflation.
But overall our performance is based upon our focus on execution and go-to-market plans.
And just in terms of the other part of your question David in terms of input costs obviously a key element of our strategy is to grow profit and cash flow and we’re continuously looking at all input costs to make sure that we have the best and most competitive pricing.
I would say that with respect to our business there is no single commodity that has a material impact on our cost structure.
Obviously oil plays a part as it relates to distribution but it’s not a significant component of our overall cost base.
So like other companies yes we are experiencing some input cost pressures particularly from oil based on commodities as it relates to plastics et cetera but we are looking for opportunities to offset those costs with other savings.
So nothing material to tell at this point.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Thank you David.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi.
And I think Pat may also have a couple of questions.
The first question I have relates to the second quarter gross margin a year ago.
Sorry to bring it up but there was margin expansion of about 480 basis points.
Can you remind us what was of a one-time nature back trends that we can get a better sense of how to think about the quarter that’s coming for gross margins? Right.
So Connie we talked about last year when we discussed gross margin and we reported the focus of the company is to deliver competitive operating margins.
And so we have done that consistently over the past three four years and we continue to do that over rolling 12-month period.
We had the benefit last year in the second quarter of restructuring savings and the first really full quarter of procurement savings as a result of a procurement initiative that began in 2009.
So that might have had an impact on the gross margin in that quarter.
But our focus once again is really on delivering operating margins that are competitive.
We’ve done that in the 14.5% range to 15% range over several quarters when you look on a latest 12-month basis.
Okay.
And then we had trouble getting into the call so I hope I’m not asking something you’ve already answered.
On the first quarter sales growth in the U.S.
can you give us what the contributions were in percent or growth from the acquisition the volume increase and the reduction of return versus prior year? Yeah.
Well so a couple of things just in terms of the acquisition what we have said is of the acquisition and they owned it for 13 days in the quarter so clearly it was immaterial impact to the performance in the U.S.
business.
The results of Sinful Colors are consolidated within the U.S.
region for reporting purpose so that’s the way they will be going forward but it was immaterial in relation to the results of the first quarter.
The second part of your question Connie was around volume? Yes.
Was there an increase in shipments and how do we think of that versus your comment in the press release that they were better comparisons to last year’s returns and allowances? Right we talk about net sales as you know we don’t talk about gross sales or shipments as you say.
What we did say is that we saw net sales growth of 2.3% in the U.S– and we said that part of that growth was driven by lower promotional allowances.
So part of that was from a lower promotion allowances obviously the rest of it was either higher shipments or lower returns.
Were there any material price increases? No it isn’t.
Price in the marketplace is a function of both the quality of the products that we are launching the competitive landscape so we launched new products we make sure that they are priced appropriately.
There is no price increases on existing products.
If there is a price increase it’s generally as a consequence of launching a new product at a higher price point.
Okay.
Hi good morning.
I actually just have one quick question on the gross margin in the first quarter.
First to the Venezuela adjustment could you remind us what that was last year and why it didn’t repeat and also if that’s going to continue throughout 2011? Yeah so in the first quarter of 2010 the Venezuelan government devalued the currency and as a result the accounting impact of that was a $2.8 million expense item which hit cost of goods as a result of the revaluation of our inventory at the new exchange rate.
So unless there is number devaluation okay it’s a one-time item and would not repeat.
And so that should continue throughout 2011? No.
Once again the question you are asking is I believe is what was the impact in the first quarter of 2010? The impact in the first quarter of 2010 that is last year was a $2.8 million expense okay.
So that expense showed up on our P&amp;L was in inventory only in the first quarter that revalue the inventory.
That inventory sells through during the year at a higher cost of goods okay.
It’s now gone okay and if there is no other devaluation that impact was only on the P&amp;L in the first quarter of 2010.
Okay.
Thank you.
I understand now.
And then secondly with regard to material costs why are they down in the quarter does that have something to do with your inventory turns? And given what’s going on with the price of oil later in the year should we (Audio Gap)  (Audio Gap) continuous process to reduce input cost.
There is nothing specific or unique about what happened in the first quarter.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just kind of follow-up on the competitive environment with Wal-Mart talking about bringing SKUs back into the store and others actually kind of continuing to rationalize.
What are you seeing in terms of opportunities for shelf space going forward? Well as you refer to Wal-Mart have been very public about the number of SKUs brought back into their store.
Of course we’re very closer with them.
I think in the remarks we said a lot of it was in the food area.
But in the environment of SKUs and Wal-Mart versus other customers that all comes from the review in that range and that all comes when we’re trying to attain the balance between the best productivity for SKU and the right range for the consumer.
So as far as we are concerned today we are optimally spaced.
We don’t have a space issue and we think we have good productive brands in there and we have very close working relationship with them of course.
All right.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Karru.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Kobylarz with Stone Harbor Investments.
Your line is open.
Just curious a little bit about what’s going on with what you stated in the press release in China you got greater sell in Revlon and that was both in China and distributor markets? I’m sorry.
I used the word sell in.
Is that is the increase in China in distributor markets is at sell-in essentially as the new agreements your distribution agreements there? No there is no new distributional agreements.
As all our remarks I would spell our net sales so we have a net sales distributors.
We have a number of distributors across key Southeast Asian market.
To build on that Jeff one of our strategy obviously is to grow and so and to do so profitably and China is an opportunity for us as it is for many companies and so we’ve talked about investing to grow our key brands in our key markets and clearly China is a market that we’re very we’re aware of.
Right.
But can you talk about sell-in versus sell-through in Asia-Pacific? We don’t talk about sell-in versus sell-through Jeff it’s something we comment on.
But that point generally we keep a close sign inventory retail to make sure that nothing gets at whacky.
Right okay.
But do you have any new agreements in the Asian markets that are… No there is no new agreements.
No.
Okay.
All right good.
And then Europe you said that you have better sales of Mitchum and fragrances in the U.K.
and South Africa and anything special driving that?  No nothing special except the continued focus on our execution.
We say we are constantly focused on how can we profitably grow the business.
We’re constantly optimizing our promotional and advertising mix.
The success of those activities and the innovation that we will bring to the market.
Okay.
Fine and then…  Brand in South Africa is a very successful brand in the marketplace and the fragrance business both in terms of regular eau de toilettes and in terms of body spray is a very robust business in the South African market.
Doing well in that market.
Okay all right good.
And then do you have any general comments about your market share in the different geographic areas?  We don’t comment on market share we haven’t done still since the end of 2009 primarily because it’s very difficult to get a global view of market share.
You can talk about market share in a micro level in the specific markets but it’s not representative of what we are doing as a global company and so we talk about net sales and the performance of net sales over time as being the best indicator of our performance.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Thank you Jeff.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to Mr.
Ennis for any closing remarks.
Thank you Simon and thank all of you for joining our conference call this morning.
This ends our conference call.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report second quarter results later this year.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Ms.
Garofalo you may begin.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you (Tinica).
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the second quarter ended June 30 2011.
If you have not already accessed a copy of our second quarter earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I would like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the company’s filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and our 2011 second quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I will turn the call over to Alan.
Well thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we have discussed with you in the past Revlon’s vision is glamour excitement and innovation through high-quality products at affordable prices.
This underpins everything we do.
We realize this vision by executing the five key elements of our business strategy which are designed to drive profitable growth.
These elements are building our strong brands developing our organizational capability driving our company to act globally increasing our operating profit and cash flow and improving our capital structure.
With regard to building our strong brands during the second quarter of 2011 we made progress in a number of areas.
From a top-line perspective we delivered net sales growth of 4% excluding the benefit of currency fluctuations driven by the U.S.
and the Asia-Pacific regions.
Our brands performed well in the marketplace and we are very pleased with both new and core product performance during the period.
Our recent acquisition of Sinful Colors is transitioning well and we are pleased with its marketplace performance.
As we have discussed for sometime we believe that the drivers of profitable growth are first innovative high-quality consumer preferred brand offering; second effective brand communication including appropriate levels of advertising and promotion; and third superb execution with our retail partners to provide optimal in-store offering.
Our results in the quarter benefited from our focus on these drivers specifically.
We are focused on our three-year global portfolio plans for our key brands in order to meet the needs of our consumers globally.
This enabled us to have a compelling product offering across both our core and new products.
Next our brand communication is benefit driven compelling to the consumer and consistently delivered across all touch points including traditional media in-store and a variety of digital platforms.
Lastly working alongside with our retail partners globally we are creating and engaging shopper environment with eye-catching in-store displays and effective promotional activity.
With regard to our strategic objective of increase in our operating profit and cash flow for the quarter we maintained competitive operating margins while growing the top-line.
We continue to support our brands at appropriate levels in the marketplace and invest in growth opportunities globally.
Our negative cash flow in the quarter was impacted primarily by the timing of debt interest payments which Steven will discuss later.
It is important to note that it was not driven by any change in the underlying business.
With regard to our strategic objective of improving our capital structure we refinanced our bank credit facilities in the quarter resulting in lower interest rates and extended maturities.
Annualized savings associated with refinancing are an estimated $10 million.
So in summary driving profitable growth comes to brands and people.
We have incredible talent and capabilities broad geographic reach and strong global brands.
Overall we had a strong quarter and I am pleased with our performance so far in 2011.
So with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies by region and by brand.
Net sales in the second quarter were $351.2 million an increase of 4% versus the second quarter last year.
This increase in net sales was driven by Sinful Colors and Revlon color cosmetics.
From the regional standpoint in the United States net sales increased $15.6 million or 8.7% primarily due to the inclusion of net sales of Sinful Colors and higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
It is important to note that net sales in the U.S grew in the quarter excluding the results of Sinful Colors.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased $4.2 million or 8.6% due to the higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China Australia and certain distributor markets.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales decreased $3.4 million or 6.8% primarily due to lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in the U.K.
and Italy and lower net sales in certain distributor markets.
Worthy of noting this region for the second year in a row Revlon will be the official make-up partner for Britain and Ireland’s Next Top Model 2011.
Revlon is a perfect partner to (indiscernible) on trend of make-up looks and inspiration for the series given our longstanding tradition of having some of the most inspiring successful and beautiful women in the world as our brand ambassadors.
Elma Pearson one of Revlon's global brand ambassadors is a presenter judge and executive producer of the series.
In Latin America net sales decreased $1 million or 3.5% primarily due to lower net sales in Mexico Venezuela and certain distributor markets which were partially offset by higher net sales in Argentina.
With respect to Venezuela lower net sales in the second quarter resulting from the previously announced June 5th fire was largely offset by higher selling prices given market conditions and inflation.
We have not recorded any sales in Venezuela since the fire.
Steven will provide more details later in the call.
In Canada net sales decreased $2.24 million or 11.5 % primarily due to lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics.
Now moving on to the performance by brand starting with Revlon color cosmetics net sales increased during the quarter as compared to prior year.
In the face segment we recently launched Revlon Age Defying with DNA Advantage a revolutionary full coverage make-up with moisturizing benefits that help protect the skin’s DNA to fight the signs of ageing.
96% of women using this make-up so flawless younger looking skin in just two weeks.
In the Lips segment Revlon Colorburst Lipgloss which continues its global rollout is a new luxurious lipgloss that contains our innovative Elasticolor technology and micropore crystal formula which distributes rich color pigments evenly for weightless color and vivid mirror-like shine.
This lipgloss is performing well in the marketplace.
In the Eye segment building up on our highly successful Revlon Grow Luscious franchise we introduced Grow Luscious Plumping Mascara.
We recently launched a 60-second commercial directed by Oscar Award winner Darren Aronofsky starring brand ambassador Jessica Biel with music producer Pharrell Williams in the course of this product launch.
And lastly in the Nail segment Revlon Top Speed our advanced line of nail color that driving 60 seconds has been introduced in several countries and we are pleased with its performance in marketplace.
Top Speed was recently recognized by The Oprah Magazine’s April awards.
Moving on to the Almay brand net sales were down modestly in the quarter as compared to the prior year.
As we continued to build out Almay’s core franchises our Intense i- Smoky-i shadow launched earlier this year continues to be successful in the marketplace.
In addition we also introduced some new franchise expansions under the Wake-Up Makeup franchise and the Get Up &amp; Grow mascara.
In women’s hair color net sales of Revlon ColorSilk grew in the second quarter.
We continued to expand this reach of Revlon ColorSilk including Revlon ColorSilk Luminista.
In anti-perspirant deodorants net sales of Mitchum in the second quarter of 2011 were essentially flat year-over-year.
As we stated in our last call we continue to spill the Mitchum brand and have built on Mitchum’s established efficacy positioning with the introduction of Michum advanced control containing FreshDefense technology.
We have also engaged another advertising and recently launched a new advertising campaign in suppose of this new product.
And finally our Revlon beauty tools business continues to perform well in the marketplace.
I will turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
As we have already discussed our net sales performance I will begin with our gross margin performance in the quarter.
In the second quarter of 2011 our gross profit margin was 65.3% versus 67.3% in the second quarter of 2010.
Gross margin in the 2011 period was unfavorably impacted by product mix higher allowances and higher cost related to inventory obsolescence and sales returns.
These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by favorable foreign currency fluctuations and lower pension expense.
SG&amp;A increased $8.1 million to $181.5 million versus the second quarter of 2010 primarily due to the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency and higher permanent display expenses.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2011 was $47.8 million compared to $47.3 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2011 was $66.3 million compared to $61.7 million in the same period a year ago.
Operating income and adjusted EBITDA benefited from higher net sales partially offset by higher cost of sales and higher SG&amp;A.
As I have mentioned in previous earnings call we continue to focus on delivering competitive operating margins.
Period-to-period there are number of moving parts contributing to our operating margins which are influenced by several factors including the mix of products sold brand support and the timing and size of product launches just to name a few.
Overall we are pleased with our operating margins in the second quarter and the year-to-date periods.
Net income in the second quarter of 2011 was $6.5 million or $0.12 per diluted share compared to net income of $16.4 million or $0.31 per diluted share in the same period last year.
Net income in the second quarter of 2011 included pre-tax charges of $11.3 million related to the early extinguishment of debt as a result of the refinancing of our bank credit facilities.
Net income also included a foreign currency loss of $1.7 million related to the re-measurement of Revlon Venezuela’s balance sheet due to a change in the exchange rate used to translate Revlon Venezuela’s financial statements.
Specifically we began using a rate of 5.5 bolivars per U.S.
dollar in the second quarter which was the average rate at which the Company has accessed U.S.
dollars in place of Venezuela’s official exchange rate of 4.3 bolivars per U.S.
dollar.
Net cash used in operating activities in the second quarter of 2011 was $20.8 million compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $9.3 million in the same period last year.
And free cash flow in the second quarter of 2011 was a negative $24.2 million compared to positive free cash flow of $5.3 million in the same period a year ago.
Cash flow in the second quarter of 2011 was impacted primarily by the timing of cash interest payments on our term loan.
Total interest payments in the quarter were $41.0 million compared to $24.4 million in the second quarter of 2010.
In addition we have higher permanent display spending of $14.7 million in the quarter compared to $7 million in the same period last year.
Now looking at the P&amp;L for the first six months of 2011 my commentary on net sales will exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency.
Net sales in the first six months of 2011 was $684.4 million an increase of 5.4% compared to the first six months of 2010.
In the United States net sales increased $19.7 million or 5.5%.
In Asia-Pacific net sales increased $8.3 million or 8.8%.
In Europe Middle East and Africa net sales increased $1.4 million or 1.5%.
In Latin America net sales increased $5.9 million or 12.1%.
In Canada net sales decreased $800 000 or 2.3%.
Operating income was $92.5 million compared to $92.7 million in the first half of 2010 and adjusted EBITDA was $124 million compared to $122.8 million in the same period last year.
Net income was $16.9 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $18.6 million or $0.36 per diluted share.
As a reminder net income in the first six months of 2011 included pretax charges of $11.3 million related to the 2011 refinancing.
And net income in the first six months of 2010 included $9.7 million of expenses associated with March 2011 refinancings.
Turning now to cash flow year-to-date cash flow provided by operating activities was $3.3 million compared to $40.5 million in the same period last year.
Free cash flow year-to-date was negative $2.5 million compared to positive $33.5 million in the same period last year.
Cash flow in the 2011 period was primarily impacted by the timing of Interest payments on our term loan debt.
The first six months of 2011 included $57.1 million of Interest payments compared to $38.5 million in 2010.
In addition there was a higher use of cash for permanent display spending and other working capital during 2011 period as compared to the same period in 2010.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity in cash on hand as of June 30 2011 was $144.2 million comprised of $43.1 million of available cash and $101.1 million of available under our revolving credit facility.
At June 30 2011 we had approximately $10 million borrowed under our revolver.
As previously announced during the quarter consistent with our strategy to improve our capital structure we refinanced both our bank term loan and revolving credit facilities which lowered our interest rates and extended debt maturities.
The cash cost of both transactions totaled approximately $4.6 million.
with respect to the P&amp;L charges associated with these refinancings we recorded a charge of $11.3 million during the second quarter of 2011 comprised of a write-off of $9.4 million of previously capitalized debt cost and a $1.9 million charge of both fees and expenses which were expensed as incurred in connection with these refinancings.
Based on current debt levels and LIBOR base rate annualized interest savings would be approximately $10 million.
Now let me take a couple of minutes to discuss the fire in our Venezuelan facility in a little more detail specifically the accounting for the quarter and the status of insurance recovery with respect to the fire.
In early June our manufacturing facility in Venezuela was destroyed by fire.
As a reminder during 2010 Venezuela represented approximately 3% of the company’s consolidated net sales and 2% of the company’s consolidated operating income.
As a result of the fire we recorded a $4.9 million impairment loss in the second quarter related to the net book value of Venezuela’s inventory property plant and equipment which was destroyed by the fire.
In the quarter we also reported $4.9 million of income in a related insurance receivable as it was probable that our insurance recovery related to the fire would be at least equal to the net book value of the inventory property plant and equipment destroyed.
This income entirely offset the $4.9 million impairment loss which I just mentioned.
Subsequent to June 30 we received confirmation that our insurers agreed to an interim advance payment of $15 million to be paid to the company with respect to the fire.
We expect to receive these proceeds in the third quarter of 2011.
At this time an assessment of the extensive damage and the fire’s impact on our business in Venezuela is ongoing and therefore the final amount and timing of the ultimate insurance recovery is unknown.
With respect to our ongoing business in Venezuela we are currently evaluating options to minimize the disruption and at this time are unable to estimate the full year impact of the fire on our financial results in Venezuela.
Now moving onto our balance of 2011 consistent with our historical practice I am going to provide certain 2011 cash flow information none of which has changed from the guidance we provided during our last earnings call.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $20 million permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $30 million.
Cash interest expense can be estimated by reference to our public firings which detail the composition of our capital structure and applicable interest rates and lastly cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $20 million.
As a reminder with respect to operating cash flow in general the timing of these cash flow items just noted as well as other working capital items can vary from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open-up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of (Reza Vahabzadeh).
Good morning Reza.
Good just on the current sales trends in some of the non-US market Canada sales were down FX as well as Europe at ex-FX which was different than in last quarter.
Any comment or color on that why ex-FX sales are down this quarter plus they were up last quarter? Yes Reza.
Let me start with Canada Europe and ME so as we stated net sales ex-FX declined $2.4 million in the quarter and that was primarily due to lower net sales in the Revlon post sales metrics.
On a year-to-date basis net sales effect declined just $800 000 and that was primarily driven by all means.
But if you look at our marketplace performance year-to-date Revlon continues to maintain its position and we’ve also been very pleased with our all means performance.
In terms of EMEA again those (indiscernible) ex-FX declined $3.4 million in the quarter and that was primarily due to lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in the UK and Italy and in certain distributor markets.
On a year-to-date basis however net sales increased $1.4 million and losses in the UK I wouldn’t say despite the net sales decline we are very pleased with the marketplace performance in color cosmetics.
In particular with respect to Revlon color cosmetics and so Revlon beauty care products.
suffice to say that in all regions we’re very focused on driving cost for growth and as we talked about before timing of net sales in marketplace performance on a quarter basis building on much perfectly.
So as we say those over time we think our net sales trend increases our performance but I think you have to say any one quarter in isolation.
Great.
So I mean in other words the timing of shipments of old or new products probably impacted the second quarter performance versus first quarter or at least or is partly reflecting event.
I’d say we don’t breakout shipments versus multiplayer performance in that way.
But if you look over time you will see performance in net sales is an indication of our business fund.
The underlying business we’re very pleased with.
As I said we’re very pleased with our performance in the UK.
Got it.
And in Latin America were sales flattish excluding the Venezuela issue? Well I’d say not quite net sales were down $1 million or 3.3%.
That was due to lower net sales in Mexico and Venezuela (indiscernible) in distributor markets partially as I mentioned by higher net sales in Argentina.
But on a year-to-date basis net sales increased $5.9 million in that region and that was driven by Revlon cosmetics and beauty care products.
Got it.
Slight exception.
There was a slight decline in net sales.
I don’t think it’s why all of the markets grew.
Got it.
And then turning to gross margins obviously this quarter gross margins lower year-over-year first quarter was up and obviously display spending I don’t know impact on that display spending was up almost 200 basis points year-over-year.
What else contributed to the gross margin decline year-over-year? So first our focus is on operating margins.
And certainly from quarter-to-quarter there will be some variability in gross margins.
Specifically in the second quarter our gross margin was 65.3 versus 67.3 as I mentioned earlier and gross margin in the quarter as you’ve just indicated was impacted by a few factors and let me just reiterate those.
One was currency and I should say product mix was an impact was an unfavorable impact on gross margin in the quarter.
So we had certain products that had a higher cost of group in the mix that was sold relative to products that were sold in the prior period.
Secondly had higher allowances in the quarter which also impacted gross margin and we also had higher cost in obsolescence and sales returns which I discussed.
And some of these were all – all of these unfavorable trends were offset by favorable foreign currency fluctuations and lower pension expense.
And so there were a number of factors and so when we look at that we see about the 65.3 it’s worthy of note to say that on a year-to-date basis our gross margin is 65.6% compared to 65.9% in the same period last year and 65.5% for the full year 2010.
Got it.
And in Sinful MEA the sales of Sinful what were they in the quarter as a percentage of prior year sales? Well as we as you know we don’t breakout sales by brand new region.
Suffice to say excluding Sinful sales in the US region increased.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks Reza.
Your next question comes from the line of Carla Casella.
Hi I have another question on Sinful Colors.
It sounds like it’s a very successful launch.
Can you talk about the sell-through of the brand versus the selling in and when if you already are in the replacement cycle for that or this fiscal selling period? I’m not quite sure what you are saying.
We took over of an existing business.
So there is a program of promotion and display that was in place in that and we have been working with since that time.
Suffice to say we are very pleased with the marketplace performance for central substantial it got a great business model its based on qualitative product at an attractive price with lots of attractive promotion.
So we are very happy with how is going.
That’s great.
I guess I was trying to get a sense for this hold about the same amount of inventory in the chancel is that a brand it hold more or less inventory of the Revlon products? Yes I wouldn’t say there are any distinguish in purchase about inventory on simple versus on another products.
Okay.
And then when you look at your new products what percentage of your sales you plan to come from new products this year and do you think that should be greater or less than last year.
Well as we said before we don’t actually break down the absolute proportion but we do say that in the category between 15% and 20% of retail sales every year come from new products and we aim to be competitive each and every year in that way.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty  It is actually Zeke Kramer for Connie.
I was wondering if you could talk about little bit what growth on the increasing net sales in the U.S.
at Sinful Colors and I know you said you don’t break out since for brand but I was wonder if you could certain give us some help on I guess the order of negative of the increase in the US accent for.
And as we said in our remarks the increase was primarily driven by the simple color and Revlon colors and magic and Revlon color okay color and excluding simple the US business was up in terms of what we think about the US performance so will be very focus on driving growth and as you know we talk about this some more cause we put in place particular reduction to positive effect how ask before on that first of all is going to less time optimizing our brand support mix between advertising promotion activity and I know drivers so its more effective.
Secondly we have been working on enhancing our Intel execution by the end of the last year we have increased our in still promotion of slight pressure and more recently will be implementing some exciting new traffic and lot of changes to our chemical and further as you said we pointed dedicated general months for US business things providing very effective days they focus from the US region so we believe gross in the range of basis of our improvement in the US business.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wu.
Hi good morning everyone.
Your first when you looks like the SG&amp;A expense which are came down meaningfully can you talked about that would drove with the client?  What I mean if you look at 10Q which is five this morning if you listening to the comment most of decline most of increase year-over-year was actually driven currency so X currency not a huge increase in SG&amp;A what we are doing they can sure that we are spending local right level in terms of dollars spend What I mean if you look at 10Q which is five this morning if you listening to the comment most of decline most of increase year-over-year was actually driven currency so X currency not a huge increase in SG&amp;A what we are doing they can sure that we are spending local right level in terms of dollars spend underwrite mix between what could captured in SG&amp;A what could capture net sales so if go where we expected to be extreme the currency charges.
Okay and just two quick confirm in the quarter the adds sales ratio up versus last year?  I don’t recall it was up or down versus last year I don’t get moved meaningfully David.
Okay and are there any changes we have been on the mix.
Is it ongoing its an ongoing process we are constantly looking at all of the media let’s get in traditional media online etcetera and so its changes quarter-to-quarter but nothing fundamental I don’t believe in generally its driven by our own view on what’s the most effective media working with the retails partners through a joint business plan in terms of and how you are execute but nothing yet we seeing to be call us.
Okay.
It seems like we have heard that ad rates have been going up especially the back half are you seeing rate increases? Well of course as you saw over the last with the upfront there was lot of talk in the price about what the rates were.
We work with Mediacom.
It’s one of the largest media advisor in the industry so we are relying on them to make sure that we have the best combination of quality quantity and rates in our media buying.
Great.
And on Venezuela how are you mitigating the impact from the fire are you planning to ship any product other than U.S.
plans in the meantime? Right now we are currently evaluating all options and our focus is to minimize disruptions on our Venezuela business.
Obviously it’s a moving fee stand as I will take actions with (indiscernible).
Great.
And then just lastly on Europe can you talk about sort of where you are in terms of expanding distribution and whether you are gaining traction with that? In Europe in general or a specific country? Both? I mean our distribution base hasn’t significantly changed.
I mean what you find with Revlon is we generally distributed in the places where people are buying cosmetics already.
Our real focus is about increasing churn and productivity in those outlets.
But as I say yeah the UK is a significant market in Europe and we are certainly very pleased with our progress there on Revlon cosmetics.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Kobylarz.
Hi good morning.
Just curious the 140 basis point hit to your gross margin you said by mix in can you say with the acquisition of Sinful Color was there inventory write up that caused kind of a one-time impact on gross margin in this quarter? As you know the Sinful acquisition closed on March 17 and the accounting is that we do write up those assets but that was not a material movement in the gross margin and it was a first quarter event.
So the product mix that we are talking about is when we have sales of certain products within color cosmetics and our beauty care portfolio they are at various margins.
And depending on the sales of those products (indiscernible) the gross margin can vary from period-to-period but as I mentioned earlier in the call in our prepared response to another question our gross margin both in 2010 as well as in the latest 12 months as well as for any measure period this time recently has been around the 65.5% range.
Okay thanks.
And about simple color can you comment about how the traders responded to your acquisition of the company and is there any change in the growth rate for Sinful just given that you guys are the owners now? Well we run Sinful as a standalone business.
We have a dedicated (indiscernible) for that business and it’s run entirely separate from Revlon.
The relations with the trade are excellent and we continue to take full of answers back.
All right.
And then also can you comment about the sales of new products in the first half of this year compared to the first half of last year just how are they performing? Well as we said earlier in our quarter one call two we are pleased with our new product developments.
As I commented earlier we target to be competitive in the category which is 15% to 20% of retail sales in new products.
And that really comes from our three-year rolling global portfolio plaque.
So as we set out sometime ago as part of our strategy we need to have a strong new product pipeline in this category.
So we implemented this three-year rolling portfolio plan.
The benefit is that you get earlier sight of your new products you are able to make sure that the technology is excellent and you are able to prepare for (indiscernible) to the launch.
So we are consistently focused on that and making sure that we are meeting with these all our consumers globally.
All right.
Thanks for your help.
That’s it.
Your next question comes from the line of (indiscernible).
Yeah hi.
Could you comment please on your inventory levels at the $141.8 million at the end of the second quarter that’s higher than it’s been for a while? Yeah I think at any period end then I will hand it over to Steven like in any period end inventory is going to move around.
There is nothing fundamentally different about our business that would indicate that inventory is anything other concern.
Okay.
So we should expect it to decline as the decline as the years go on.
I didn’t say that I think you need to anticipate whatever you choose to anticipate but I’d say is that nothing fundamentally different about our business as it relates to inventory.
Obviously we did add the Sinful Colors brand to our portfolio which does have some inventory but net in net nothing fundamentally different from worldwide business point.
Okay all right.
It should by year end it should be comparable to last year’s year end is that perhaps any timing or temporary differences? I wouldn’t conclude that.
It’s up to you to conclude.
Okay.
And how much of an increase would be attributable to the Sinful Colors business? We won’t disclose.
I’m sorry  That’s not something that we disclose.
I see okay.
And then regarding the permanent display spending is that been capitalized this part of property and equipment? The accounting for differs around the world.
In the U.S.
typically it is capitalized and amortized over the three year period and in certain markets that by the U.S.
it is capitalized.
But also in certain markets outside the U.S.
and China for example its expenses does incurs.
Okay.
Okay great.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We do have a follow-up question for the line of [Reza].
Yes.
Just as a follow-up you mentioned in your remarks that in the second quarter allowances as well as returns were higher year-over-year.
I was running if you can comment on that because it seems like returns and allowances have been moderating year-over-year in the last few quarters for the part.
With regard to allowances that’s going to be a function of as activity both of our new products as well as our core business in any particular quarter vary through period to period to period as a function of our selling activity.
However we don’t see a change in the overall level of allowances that are driving our business as Chris and Alan both mentioned earlier.
We look for a mix of advertising and promotion that will drive profitable brand growth And is it roughly flat year-over-year or year-to-date? I just don’t have that in front of me at the moment [Reza] Got it and then you talked about FX being helpful to your gross margin is that function of selling products reduced out of U.S.
to appreciating currency countries away from us? No we are manufacturing majority of our products more than 50% in the U.S.
(indiscernible) Carolina facility we have been selling both products to overseas markets and then in addition we are translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries non-US subsidiaries those financial statements then translated back to U.S.
dollars transaction and translation impacts that are reflected in financial payments.
Okay.
That’s what I meant to say.
Quite used to it in a more eloquent way.
And then lastly the toner business in U.S.
for the category I mean have you seen any improvement in the category broadly speaking or any softness versus first quarter or to prior year.
The category continues to be positive.
This is a highly competitive category.
It’s got a lot of strong players like ourselves who are competing constantly everyday plus it follows the group of the retailers who will complete very hard against each other so.
All that has produced fairly good to category so far this year.
So is it category sales were up in the second quarter? What happened in the first quarter? Yes.
They were? Okay and retailer posture on color cosmetics and beauty care is that also constructive? Yes.
I mean that they continue to see as a good category.
We have very strong relationships with each of the major customers.
As Alan mentioned earlier we work very closely on joint business confidence and maximize performance.
So it’s a place to be.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentleman.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Alan Ennis for closing remark.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for joining our conference call.
We look forward to speak with you when we report our third quarter results end of this year.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you (Ryan).
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the third quarter ended September 30 2011.
If you have not already accessed a copy of our third quarter earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I would like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the company’s filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and our 2011 third quarter 10-Q which we expect to file over the next couple of days.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a remainder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I will turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As you know our strategic objective is to drive profitable growth and in our third quarter we continue to successfully execute the strategy.
With regard to building our strong brands during the third quarter we grew net sales by 3.6% excluding the impact of currency fluctuations.
Our U.S.
regions drove the increase with positive performance across our Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk and Sinful Colors brands.
Outside the U.S.
our net sales declined in the quarter.
However on year-to-date basis most of our regions have grown year-over-year.
In addition our continued emphasis on innovation effective brand communication and in-store execution positively impacted our performance in the quarter.
We are also extremely excited this quarter to announce the two of Hollywood’s most sought after actresses Emma Stone and Olivia Wilde joined us as global brand ambassadors for our Revlon brand.
These remarkable talented actresses personify the Revlon woman glamorous confident and bold and will help us build meaningful connections with consumers.
Another key element of our strategy is to develop our organizational capability.
To that end we’ve recently strengthened our global leadership team with the addition of Xavier Garijo as our Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer.
Xavier joins us with broad experience product space having served in key leadership roles at top consumer product companies.
We are focused on more effectively globalizing our supply chain and I’m trilled to have someone of Xavier’s capability leading that efforts.
With regard to our strategic objectives of increasing our operating profit in cash flow and improving our capital structure we continue to make progress as we sustain competitive operating margins reduced interest expense and generated positive free cash flow.
While we remain focused on delivering profitable growth we are extremely aware of the challenging global economic environment and so we continue to manage our resources carefully with the balance perspective on long-term growth and profitability.
So taking a look at our performance so far this year we have grown the top-line with sustained competitive margins and we are generating positive cash flow all of which we believe reflective the effectiveness of our strategy.
So with that I’ll hand it over to Chris he will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance excluding the impacts of changes in foreign currencies by region and by brand.
Total company net sales in the third quarter were $337.2 million an increase of 3.6% versus a third quarter of last year.
The increase was primarily driven by the inclusion of the net sales of simple colors and higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
Partially offset by lower net sales in Venezuela due to the June 2011 fire at tour facility there.
From the regional standpoints in the United States net sales increased $18 million or 10.8% primarily due to the inclusion of net sales of Sinful Colors and higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
It is important to note that net sales in the U.S.
region grew in the quarter excluding the results of Sinful Colors.
In Asia-Pacific net sales decreased $1.3 million or 2.4%.
Lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Japan and Australia and other beauty care products were partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China and certain distributor markets.
Economic uncertainty has negatively impacted the retail marketplace in Australia or in Japan although we continue to see growth in both China and the distributor markets.
I would also like to point out that on a year-to-date basis net sales in the Asia-Pacific region are up almost 5% as compared to last year.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales decreased $1.4 million or 2.8% in the quarter primarily due to lower net sales of fragrances throughout most of the region.
While in the first half of 2011 our net sales of fragrances drove year-over-year growth in the region the promotional environment for this category became more aggressive in the third quarter which negatively impacted net sales in the period.
We are taking actions to remain competitive in the fragrance category.
As I mentioned last year Revlon is official makeup partner for Britain and Ireland’s Net Top Model 2011 which is hosted by a brand ambassador Elle MacPherson.
Jade Thompson was recently crowned this season’s winner and is the face of Revlon’s new Autumn/Winter 2011 trend collections designed by Revlon global artistic director Gucci Westman.
In Latin America net sales decreased $2.8 million or 9.6%.
This decrease was primarily due to lower net sales in Venezuela where we have not fully resumed business since the June 2011 fire.
Excluding Venezuela net sales in the Latin America region increased primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics throughout the rest of the region and higher net sales of other beauty care products in Argentina.
In Canada net sales decreased $1.1 million or 6.1% primarily due to lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics.
As you know we are focused on driving profitable growth and have various actions underway to address our business in Canada.
Together with the leadership team there we are very focused on optimizing our brand support mix and in-store execution across all of our customers.
Now moving on to the performance by brand starting with Revlon color cosmetics total company net sales increased during the quarter as compared to prior year.
With regard to our Revlon brand products in the face segment the Revlon Age Defying franchise is growing as we continue to rollout globally our Age Defying with DNA Advantage Makeup.
Our Revlon PhotoReady franchise also continues to be strong.
In the Eye segment building upon our successful Revlon Grow Luscious Mascara launch we introduced Grow Luscious Plumping Mascara and Lash Liner which are being rolled out globally.
These line extensions have added incremental sales the Grow Luscious franchise and we continue to be pleased with this performance.
Also worthy of note is our customized franchise shadow with liner which is offered in a range of expertly coordinated pallets that enable consumers to create and customize their look with ease.
These unique pallets we use backstage at Fashion Week in the recent New York and London shows.
In the Lip segments Revlon ColorBurst lipgloss which continues its global rollout is performing well in the marketplace and Just Bitten Lip Stain plus Balm has also been successfully rolled out.
And lastly in the Nail segments net sales of both our core and new Nail business increased in the quarter and overall in 2010.
The increased net sales were driven by Revlon’s new product offerings notably our enhanced shade range and our expanded product portfolio including Top Speed and our Scented Nail collections in addition to the positive performance of the nail bar concept.
Moving on to the Almay brand net sales were essentially flat in the quarter as compared to prior year.
We continue to build Almay’s call franchises namely Intense I and Smart Shade.
Almay Intense I smoky eye kit which was introduced early in 2011 is maintaining a very strong performance in Almay’s core U.S.
and Canada markets.
Also adding to Almay’s award wining makeup remover line we introduce new Almay makeup eraser sticks.
These revolutionary cotton tip swabs are individually filled with gentle skin conditioning makeup remover to effortlessly erase smudges and smears around the eye.
With respect to our Revlon and Almay color cosmetics performance we have stated a number of times that the key driver of our business is launching innovative high-quality consumer preferred products in the marketplace.
Over the last several months we are pleased to report that we have received a number of awards in recognition of our competitive levels of innovation.
Specifically three of our products won Allure’s 2011 Best of Beauty Awards Revlon ColorBust lipstick Revlon Grow Luscious Plumping Liner and Almay makeup eraser sticks.
Almay makeup eraser sticks were also recognized in Real Simple Magazine’s November edition as part of a pretty smart color which is dedicated to the latest beauty products and tips that save time and money.
Lastly our Almay’s Smart Shade Smart Balance pressed powder was named a winner in Shape Magazine’s eighth annual beauty awards as the best get gorgeous powder by the team of beauty experts.
We believe these awards demonstrate the strength of our new product portfolio and help drive consumption.
We are very pleased to receive the recognition that we are meeting the needs of consumers with so many of our products in 2011.
In women’s hair color net sales of Revlon ColorSilk grew in the third quarter and we continue to expand distribution of Revlon ColorSilk including Revlon ColorSilk Luminista.
Of note Revlon ColorSilk was a gold award winner for the best permanent hair color for younger looking hair in Good Housekeeping Magazine’s second annual anti-aging awards.
In antiperspirant deodorants net sales of Mitchum in the third quarter of 2011 were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
Our new Mitchum advanced control solid antiperspirants containing fresh defense technology has been introduced in several countries and is positively impacting net sales in the period.
And finally our Revlon beauty tools business continues to perform well in the face of softer demand in the category overall.
Our Revlon beauty tools brand is the number one brand in the U.S.
and Canada.
Also this quarter Revlon was active in the spring 2012 fashion weeks in New York and London and in Vogue’s Fashions Night Out.
Revlon and its global artistic director Gucci Westman partnered to create beauty looks on the runway with Revlon’s newest products at four of the hottest fashion week shows Oscar De La Renta Rag &amp; Bone Luca Luca and J.
Mendel.
Our participation in fashion week activities demonstrates as our new products are not only on trend that we establish and set the trends.
Now I will turn it over to Stevens to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
As we have already discussed our net sales performance I will start with gross margin performance in the quarter.
In the third quarter of 2011 our gross margin was 63.5% versus 65.4% in the third quarter of 2010.
Gross profit in the 2011 period was unfavorably impacted by product mix and higher allowances in part as we continue to optimize our mix of brand support between promotional allowances and advertising.
These unfavorable impacts will partially offset by lower costs related to inventory obsolescence and sales returns as well as favorable foreign currency fluctuations.
SG&amp;A expenses were flat versus the third quarter of 2010 as higher general and administrative expenses and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations were offset by both lower advertising expenses and the benefit of business interruption insurance recoveries related to the fire in Venezuela.
I will discuss the Venezuela business later in my remarks.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2011 was $44.8 million compared to $39.3 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2011 was $60.3 million compared to $54.3 million in the same period a year ago.
Operating income and adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2011 benefited from higher net sales partially offset by higher cost of sales as compared to the same period last year.
As I have mentioned in previous earnings calls we continue to focus on delivering competitive operating margins.
In every period there are a number of moving parts contributing to our operating margins which is influenced by several factors including the mix of products sold composition of brand support and the timing and size of product launches just to name a few.
Overall we are pleased with our operating margins in third quarter and the year-to-date periods.
Interest expense in the quarter decreased $2.7 million to $20.4 million due to lower weighted average borrowing rates as a result of our 2011 refinancings.
Tax expense in the third quarter was $22.1 million compared to a benefit from income taxes or $600 000 in the same period a year ago.
Drivers of the higher tax provision and the effective tax rate in the period are detailed in our earnings release.
Let me take a moment though to note a few things as it relates to taxes.
First we continue to expect cash paid for income taxes to be approximately $20 million for the full year 2011.
Our priority remains minimizing cash taxes and our cash tax guidance for the full year 2011 has not changed since we first provided such guidance on our earnings call in February of this year.
Second as we discussed earlier this year our effective tax rate would likely be higher in 2011 as compared to 2010.
This is caused by the 2010 reduction of the valuation allowance for U.S.
deferred tax assets.
The reduction in the valuation allowance has not had any impact on our cash taxes paid.
Lastly our tax provision and our effective tax rate in any individual quarter can and will vary and may not be indicative of our tax provision and the effective tax rate for the full year.
Moving on net income in the third quarter of 2011 was $100 000 or nil diluted share compare to net income of $12.5 million or $0.24 per diluted share in the same period last year.
Net cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter were $16.9 million compared to $9.5 million in the same period last year.
And free cash flow in the third quarter of 2011 was $13.3 million compared to $5.3 million in the same period a year ago.
Now let me take a minute to update you on our situation in Venezuela.
As you will call our facility in Venezuela was destroyed by fire in June 2011.
As a reminder our subsidiary in Venezuela represented approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales in 2010.
Prior to the fire approximately half of the net sales in Venezuela were sourced from our local production facility and the other half was imported from our U.S.
manufacturing facility.
In August of this year we resumed shipments to Venezuelan customers of product imported from our U.S.
facility actions to address the local manufacturing products remain under review at this time.
Additional details of the financial impact of the Venezuela fire and its impact on our business are included in today’s earnings release.
Now moving on to the P&amp;L for the first nine months of 2011 my commentary on net sales will exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency.
Net sales in the first nine months of 2011 were approximately $1 billion an increase of 4.8% compared to the first nine months of 2010.
In the United States net sales increased $37.7 million or 7.1%.
In Asia-Pacific net sales increased $7 million or 4.7%.
In Europe Middle East and Africa net sales were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
In Latin America net sales increased $3.1 million or 4%.
And lastly in Canada net sales decreased $1.9 million or 3.6%.
Operating income in the nine-month period was $137.3 million compared to $132 million in the first nine months of 2010.
And adjusted EBITDA was $184.3 million compared to $177.1 million in the same period last year.
Net income was $17 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $31.1 million or $0.60 per diluted share in the same period last year.
The provision for income taxes was $32.4 million in the first nine months of 2011 compared to $9.2 million in the same period last year.
As a reminder net income in the first nine months of 2011 included pre-tax charges of $11.3 million related to our May and June 2011 credit agreement refinancings also net income in the first nine months of 2010 included pre-tax charges of $9.7 million associated with the March 2010 credit agreement refinancings.
Turning now to cash flow year-to-date operating cash flow was $20.2 million compared to $50 million in the same period last year.
Free cash flow year-to-date was $10.8 million compared to $38.8 million in the same period last year.
Cash flow in the first nine months of 2011 included unfavorable changes in working capital primarily inventory.
Also impacting year-to-date cash flow were $66.4 million of interest payments versus $59 million last year and $28.7 million of pension contributions as compared to $20.1 million in the first nine months of 2010.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of September 30 2011 was $156 million which was comprised of $114.6 million available under our revolving credit facility and $42.3 million of available cash.
Our revolver was undrawn as of September 30 2011.
Now moving on to the balance of 2011 consistent with our historical factors I am going to provide certain 2011 cash flow information none of which has changed from the guidance we provided during our last earnings call.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $20 million.
Permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $30 million.
Cash interest expense can be estimated by reference to our public filings which detailed the composition of our capital structure and applicable interest rates.
And lastly cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $20 million.
As a reminder with respect to operating cash flow in general the timing of these cash flow items just noted as well as other working capital items can vary from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up to call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of (Carla Casella).
Your line is open.
Hi I have one clarification question on the Venezuela the gain that you recorded in the quarter that $6.1 million is that exactly offset by the charge in the quarter so there should be no adjustment to EBITDA.
Right.
The $6.1 million represents the business interruption insurance in the period.
And so that was $6.1 million for quarter in the third quarter offset costs incurred as well as estimated loss profits for the June through September period.
Okay.
So it does equally match the cost? I guess I was wondering whether there was a mismatch in terms of the amount to understand whether the recurring SG&amp;A was as reported or should the recurring SG&amp;A be $6 million higher? So what we have business interruption losses represent losses for costs incurred as well as lost profits.
And so the $6.1 million as you will see in our press release represents those costs that were incurred and loss profits for the period June through September because we had not received any proceeds from the insurance company until the third quarter.
And so all of it was – all of that $6.1 million representing four months because the fire was on June 5 four months of activity was included in the 2011 third quarter.
I would not look at the $6.1 million as a run rate of anything.
Okay  The one other point to clarify Carla just to build on what Steven is saying the insurance recoveries is reflected as a benefit within SG&amp;A and it’s essentially designed to offset what the business would otherwise have achieved from profitability standpoint.
The difference being that historically had the fire not occurred we would have had sales and cost of sales and other line items in the P&amp;L.
So gross profit would be higher but essentially it flows in as a one line benefit with an SG&amp;A.
Okay great.
And then when do you have to revalue your pension for 2012? Do you have any outlook yet on terms of what your pension contribution or expense could be for next year? Yes the revaluation is done on December 31 of each year and so that has not yet been completed.
And as you are aware it’s a function of the interest rate environment.
And so because we don’t know what the interest rates will be at December 31 at this point in time.
We do not have an estimate.
Okay great.
And then as you look at the permanent display spending was a little bit lower in the quarter but you maintained your full year guidance.
So I guess it was just a timing issue is that related to timing of new products as well?  No no particularly the timing varies depending upon when we execute with retailers.
So you know sometimes these things shift within the retailers’ calendar but it’s just a timing question.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Carla.
Your next question comes from the line of (David Wu).
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi David.
I just have three questions.
Hi.
The first question in the U.S.
you mentioned excluding Sinful Colors sales would have still been positive.
Can you provide any color at all as to the magnitude was up low or mid single digits? And perhaps also just give us an update how the marketing initiatives such as improving the permanent display wall layouts are tracking and also how that’s resonating with customers? So we don’t breakout brand sales as you know suffice to say as we said in our earlier marks that excluding Sinful Colors net sales increased in the U.S.
region primarily driven by Revlon cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk.
That’s the in-store we are constantly working on that as you probably know in the U.S.
marketplace there are two major updates a year one is early in first quarter when retail has changed the in-store items and the other is around the middle of the year under the second update.
All right.
When we did the second update this year we made some changes.
In addition we are constantly evolving and updating our promotional displays and I think we have been in the stores you have seen in the second half some very impactful displays which we believe are important to attracting consumers.
Great.
I mean and secondly how much did ad spending declined in the quarter and how are you planning for the fourth quarter?  So we don’t breakout the absolute number.
Basically our ad spending is a function of our overall brand support mix.
So what happens is we constantly optimized depending upon retailers’ programs new products and we amend to make some optimizer mix between allowances advertising consumer promotion etcetera.
Okay.
And in terms of the fourth quarter any sort of guidance you can give us?  We don’t provide forward-looking guidance as you know.
Right.
And so we tell you when we get there.
Okay excellent.
And then just lastly I thought it was interesting you mentioned the promotional environment for fragrances in Europe got more aggressive in the quarter.
Can you maybe provide more color on this perhaps which channel or regions it impacted the most?  Yeah it was across mainly mass channels.
But as you know in outside of the U.S.
the channels are less defined.
Great.
The products that we talk about are across most of our channels.
So whether it’s what you would think of those drug stores as well as what you think of is mass.
But basically as we said in the first half we were driving growth through that business.
Competitive environment got really aggressive in the third quarter.
We have been responding and we are taking action to make sure that we stay competitive.
Excellent.
I mean and just lastly just on Venezuela so you talked about resuming distribution from the U.S.
facility but I want to know if you sort of stepped up the level of shipments to sort of compensate for the lack of distribution from the local facility or? So just to clarify some of the point… Yeah.
That Steven made earlier so of the Venezuela business pre-fire.
Right.
Roughly half of those products were imported from our U.S.
facility and what we have were manufactured at the local Venezuela facility that was destroyed by the fire.
So we didn’t have any shipments from June 2011 until the middle of August 2011 from the U.S.
because we didn’t have a logistics provider sorted out.
So we have got that sorted out mid-August and so now we are back to normal levels what I would call normal levels of importing products from the US.
So that of course 50% of the business is back up and running? Is back right.
So you haven’t really stepped up it hasn’t been more than 50% I guess to compensate for the other half? No there are different product lines.
Okay.
What we have actually in Venezuela was specific to that markets so they weren’t manufactured in Oxford at all.
Got it.
Thank you.
Great.
Next question comes from the line of (Grant Jordon).
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the call.
Good morning Grant.
I just want to drilldown a little bit more on gross margin.
You give us similar reasons why it declined in the quarter.
How did it perform relative to what you expected going into the quarter? So couple of things so gross margin and I am going to talk to Steven a second gross margin will very period-to-period depending on a variety of factors.
What we are focused on primarily is operating margin and we believe we have delivered again competitive operating margins.
The reason gross margin moves around period-to-period and the reason it did this so is because of the balance of brand support spending.
And so as you know promotion allowances and the cost of promotional activity is recorded as a deduction to arrive at net sales and therefore it impacts your gross margin that way.
So as that spending increases it will cause a decline in your gross margin rates but as we do that we look at what we are spending in advertising and we reduced our advertising spends in the quarter by almost $9 million.
And so it’s really and that’s a function of what’s happening in the marketplace.
As Chris mentioned earlier it’s a function of what the retailers are doing it’s a function of what the consumers are doing and it’s a function of what the competitors are doing.
And so that will move around period-to-period and so what we are focused on primarily is operating margin.
And making sure that we delivering competitive operating margins.
And specifically Grant in the third quarter of 2011 gross margin was impacted unfavorably by higher allowances as Chris and Alan just touched on.
And that reduced gross profit as a percentage of net sales by about 2 percentage points.
We also had the impact of product mix and that reduced gross profit as a percentage of net sales by about 1% 1.1 percentage points.
However there were some favorable items.
And as Alan just mentioned this will vary from period-to-period.
This quarter the favorable items related to we have lower costs related to inventory obsolescence and sales returns which I mentioned in my prepared remarks and that increased gross profit as a percentage of net sales by about point 0.8 percentage points.
And once again we had favorable for our foreign currency fluctuations was favorable by about 0.6 percentage points.
So once again lots of moving parts and that will vary from period-to-period.
Okay.
That’s helpful particularly the focus on the operating margin.
Second question will be it seems like internationally you guys have been doing a great job in terms of top-line momentum and maybe lost a little bit of momentum this quarter.
Can you talk about whether that is product specific due to competition or maybe some more macro factors playing in?  Well as we mentioned there are some macro factors going on there.
I made a couple of points.
One sales come very closer this quarter.
So we believe we should be looking at sales trends over time.
On a year-to-date basis total net sales were up 5% and were up in the U.S.
Asia-Pacific or Latin America while that remains flat.
As regards Latin America as we said that’s really a result of Venezuela and excluding Venezuela the region is up.
And we already talked about the fragrance business.
In Asia-Pacific as we mentioned is primarily driven by Japan and Australia while we have seen positive momentum in China and certain distributor markets in that region.
So I would say those among macroeconomic trends the retail environment in those two markets has been more difficult recently.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to you Mr.
Ennis.
Thank you Ryan thank you all for joining us conference call this morning.
We look forward to speaking you when we report our fourth quarter results next year.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to Revlon's fourth quarter and year ended 2011 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon's Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today's call.
Today we released our results for the year and the fourth quarter ended December 31 2011.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I'd like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this afternoon might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the company's results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the company's filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K which was filed today.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of the following non-GAAP measures.
Adjusted EBITDA free cash flow and the provision for income taxes excluding the non-cash tax benefits discussed in our earnings release.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a remainder our discussion this afternoon should not be copied or recorded.
With that I'll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
The execution of our business strategy in 2011 has enabled us to achieve significant progress.
Guided by our strategic goal of profitably growing our business we are focused on executing our business strategies specifically to build our strong brands develop our organizational capability drive our company to act globally increase our operating profit and cash flow and improve our capital structure.
So let me discuss some of the notable achievements in 2011 under each element of our business strategy.
First building our strong brands.
From a topline perspective we grew net sales in 2011 by 4.5% in the phase of continued uncertain economic conditions.
We placed continued emphasis on innovation effective brand communication and strong in-store execution.
From a marketplace perspective we introduced a number of innovative high-quality consumer preferred products across our entire portfolio including Revlon ColorBurst Lipgloss Revlon Top Speed Nail Colors and Almay Intense i-Color Smoky-i Kit.
We also added the Sinful Colors brand to our portfolio which has performed very well in the marketplace.
In addition we signed two of Hollywood's most sought-after actresses Emma Stone and Olivia Wilde as global brand ambassadors for our Revlon brand.
Both of who we believe will help us to continue to build meaningful connections with consumers.
The next element of our business strategy is to develop our organizational capability.
We significantly strengthened the capabilities of our leadership team this year through a number of key appointments.
Xavier Garijo joined as Chief Supply Chain Officer and brings broad experience in the consumer product space having served in key leadership roles at top consumer products companies.
Xavier replaces Art Franson who retired in 2011.
Through Xavier's leadership we are focused on more effectively globalizing our supply chain.
Lauren Goldberg joined as General Counsel bringing over 20 years of broad legal experience to our team.
Lauren has assumed the role from Bob Kretzman who very capably led the legal function for over a decade.
Bob remains in the role of Chief Administrative Officer and continues to be a key member of our leadership team.
Also this year we strengthened our marketing organization and our processes under the leadership of our Chief Marketing Officer Julia Goldin who has just completed her first full year with us.
Julia was recently recognized as the New Comer of the Year by Women's Wear Daily a formal honor in the marketplace and recognizing the accomplishments that we have delivered with our brand.
These individual complement a highly capable team which is focused on achieving our strategic objective of profitably growing our business.
The third element of our business strategy is to continue to drive our company to act globally.
This guides how we think plan and act across all of our brands and regions.
We are leveraging our brand positioning our portfolio planning process and our brand communication plans on a global basis.
We are also focused on improving our operating efficiency through many activities including global supply chain management which again delivered improved inventory turns in 2011.
The last two elements of our strategy are to increase operating profit and cash flow and to improve our capital structure.
In 2011 we increased profitability achieving adjusted EBITDA of $266 million and operating income of $203 million.
We sustained highly competitive operating income and EBITDA margins.
We achieved our fourth consecutive year of positive free cash flow and we improved our capital structure by refinancing our credit agreements which lowered our cost of borrowing and extended maturities.
Additionally in April 2011 our credit rating was upgraded by Moody's.
So with that let me hand it over to Chris who will take you through our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good afternoon everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance excluding the impacts of changes in foreign currencies by region and by brand.
Total company net sales in 2011 were approximately $1.4 billion an increase of 3.3% versus 2010.
This increase was primarily driven by the inclusion of the net sales of Sinful Colors and higher net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics as well as Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Revlon beauty tools and lower net sales in Venezuela due to the June 2011 fire which destroy our facility there.
From the regional standpoint in the United States net sales increased $28.3 million or 3.9% primarily due to the inclusion of the net sales of Sinful Colors plus higher net sales of Almay color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Revlon beauty tools and Revlon color cosmetics.
Net sales in the U.S.
region grew in 2011 excluding the results of Sinful Colors.
Let me take a moment to address the fourth quarter net sales performance in the U.S.
In the U.S.
net sales decreased in the fourth quarter by $9.4 million or 4.7% driven primarily by lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics which were partially offset by higher net sales of Almay color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color plus the inclusion of Sinful Colors.
Higher returns expense and higher promotional allowances resulted in lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics.
Both returns and promotional allowances are accounted for as reductions in arriving at net sales.
Higher returns were primarily driven by two factors.
First recycling the lower returns expense noted in our 2010 fourth quarter results.
Second we had higher returns expense in the quarter due to a higher number of product discontinuations as compared to the same period last year.
This increase in discontinuations was driven by the breadth and the scope of our 2012 new product introduction.
With respect to higher allowances in the fourth quarter of 2011 promotional allowances formed a greater part of our brand and support mix as compared to the same period last year.
We monitor and refine the balance between advertising and promotion on an ongoing basis in order to ensure we're supporting our brands with appropriate levels and mix of brand support.
As a reminder in addition to returns and allowances there are a number of other factors that can affect net sales from quarter-to-quarter including new product introduction advertising promotional activity competitive environment consumer behaviors and retail strategies.
So as we often note it is best to review our performance overtime.
Further with respect to the U.S.
on a full year basis recurrence expenses was not a driver positively nor negatively of our net sales performance year-over-year.
Now let me return to our discussion of full year 2011 results outside of the U.S.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased $8.4 million or 4% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China and certain distributor markets partially offset by lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Australia and Japan.
Economic uncertainty negatively impacted the retail marketplace in Australia and Japan this year although we continue to see growth in both China and certain distributor markets.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales increased $4 million or 2% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in South Africa and certain distributor markets partially offset by low net sales initially.
In Latin America net sales increased $4.6 million or 4.3%.
This increase was primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics throughout the region and higher net sales of other beauty care products in Argentina.
These increases were partially offset by low net sales in Venezuela where the company had not fully resumed business since the June 2011 fire.
In Canada net sales decreased $2.3 million or 3.1% primarily due to lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics a highly capable Canadian leadership team is focused on improving our business in the region including refining our brand support mix and optimizing in-store execution across all of our customers.
Now moving on to our performance by brand starting with Revlon color cosmetics total company net sales increased as compared to the prior year.
2011 benefited from a number of new product introductions and positive performance of our successful PhotoReady ColorBurst and Nail Color franchises.
We continue to innovate and have recently introduced a number of new products which are supported by a new advertising campaign.
In the face segment we extended the Revlon PhotoReady franchise with the addition of PhotoReady Airbrush Mousse Makeup which goes on lights as air and contains innovative photochromatic pigments that bend and reflect light to give a flawless airbrush appearance.
In the eye segment we introduced PhotoReady 3D Volume Mascara revolutionary volumizing mascara with a unique reflection formula that makes lashes look a 100% more magnified and multiplied.
These new Revlon PhotoReady offerings are early in their launch and we look forward to continue positive performance from this franchise.
Continuing in the eye segment Revlon ColorStay has been a leading brand in our core Eyeshadow offering over the years.
Building upon its success we restaged and upgraded our Revlon ColorStay Eyeshadow Quad 16-hour wear and new premium design of packaging.
This new shadow offers impactful long-wearing color in both the hottest runway inspired and classic shapes.
This restaging is consistent with our approach of not just expanding our product range but also strengthening our existing products with new technology.
In the lip segment extending our Revlon ColorBurst franchise we introduced Revlon ColorBurst Lip Butter.
A buttery balm that's instantly hydrates lips while providing color with a high shine finish.
Studies shows that 94% of women who use this product there lips were softer smoother and instantly hydrated.
To date our ColorBurst Lip Butter has being very well received in the marketplace.
The ColorBurst franchise is fairly new only just created in 2009 and we are very proud to have built this strong franchise with new product successes and innovation over the past few years including ColorBurst lipstick and ColorBurst Lipgloss.
Lastly in the nail segment we introduced ColorStay Longwear Nail Color containing our exclusive ColorStay light curing technology which cures in natural light versus the sullen UV light providing a gel-like shine and 11 days of high-impact color.
Also worthy of note Revlon Top Speed Nail Color are advanced fast drawing line of nail color that sets in 60 seconds was one of the leading new nail products in the U.S.
marketplace in 2011.
Across all of our nail franchises we continue to expand our product support portfolio and provide a fashion-forward on-trend shade offering.
Three focus on building our strong brands.
We are very pleased with our ability to reinvigorate core franchises like ColorStay and Revlon Nail Color as well as introduced and successfully establish new franchises like Revlon ColorBurst and Revlon PhotoReady.
Moving on to the Almay brand net sales of Almay increased year-over-year.
Our Intense i-Color franchise benefited from the introduction of Intense i-Color Smoky-i Kit in 2011 which delivered very strong performance.
Building up on the formula on packaging innovations behind Smoky-i we have extend the franchise with the introduction of Intense i-Color Satin-i and the Shimmer-i Kits.
These new products help consumers create a desired eye look with ease.
We have also introduced Almay Intense i-Color Shadow Stick the first non-greasing dual-ended shadow stick from Almay containing highly saturated pigments of fiber-rich color in expertly coordinated shades.
In the face segment under our Smart Shade franchise we introduced Almay's first primer called Smart Shade Perfect and Correct which instantly brightens and color correct skin defusing in perfections and leaving skin softer smoother and up to two and a half times more hydrated.
In women's hair color net sales of Revlon ColorSilk increased year-over-year.
During 2011 we expanded distribution of ColorSilk including ColorSilk Luminista in a number of markets outside the U.S.
Building on this success we have introduced Root Erase by ColorSilk which erases roots and grays with ease for beautiful seamless color in 10 minutes.
This product features our unique ColorSilk Precise Control sponge applicator ensuring a precise mess-free application.
In antiperspirant deodorants net sales of Mitchum increased year-over-year behind the launch of Mitchum Control and our Revlon beauty tools business continues to perform well even in the phase of softer demand in the category overall.
Revlon beauty tools is the number one brand in the U.S.
and Canada And finally I'd like to know that we were active in the fall/winter 2012 fashion week in New York over the past week and has similar trends for London.
Our participation in these activities highlights our new products and not only on-trend but that we established and set the trends.
Now I will turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results.
Thank you Chris.
As we have already discussed our net sales performance all begin with gross margin performance for the year.
Our gross margin in 2011 was 64.3% versus 65.5% in 2010.
Gross profit in the 2011 period was unfavorably impacted by product mix and higher promotional allowances partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations and lower pension expense within cost of sales.
SG&amp;A increased $18.9 million in 2011 to $685.5 million due to higher general and administrative expenses and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations.
These higher expenses were partially offset by the benefit of business interruption insurance recoveries associated with the fire that destroyed our Venezuela facility.
These recoveries essentially made us financially hold for both cost incurred and estimated loss profits through December 2011.
Operating income for 2011 was $203.3 million compared to $199.8 million and adjusted EBITDA was $266 million compared to $260.4 million for 2010.
Interest expense decreased $5.6 million to $91.3 million this year primarily due to the May 2011 refinancing of our term-loan credit facility at lower interest rates.
Income from continuing operations before-income taxes was $89.6 million as compared to $79.8 million in 2010.
The provision for income taxes was an expense of $36.8 million at 2011.
There were two components to this years tax provision first income tax expense of $53.7 million and second a non-cash tax benefit of $16.9 million.
The non-cash tax benefit is a result of the reduction in our deferred tax valuation allowance in certain markets outside the United States.
As a reminder last year we had a reduction into deferred tax valuation allowance in the United States of $260.6 million which benefited our reported provision for taxes in 2010.
It is important to note that these reductions in our deferred tax asset valuation allowances have no impact on the company's cash taxes paid cash flow or its liquidity.
In 2011 cash paid for income taxes was $20.5 million as compared to $16.2 million in 2010.
Net income for 2011 was $53.4 million or $1.02 per diluted share compared to net income of $327.3 million or $6.26 per diluted share for 2010.
Operating income income from continuing operations before-tax and net income included pre-tax charges of $11.2 million in 2011 associated with the refinancing of the company's credit facilities.
In 2010 the same P&amp;L line items included pre-tax charges of $9.7 million associated with the March 2010 refinancing.
Moving on to cash flows net cash provided by operating activities for 2011 was $88 million compared to $97.2 million.
And free cash flow was $74.4 million compared to $82.3 million.
Cash flow in 2011 included higher cash paid for permanent cabinetry interest and pension contributions as compared to 2010.
Favorable changes in other working capital partially offset these higher cash uses.
Now let me take a moment to update you on our situation in Venezuela.
As we have previously stated our facility in Venezuela was destroyed by a fire in June 2011.
Our subsidiary in Venezuela represented approximately 2% of the company's consolidated net sales in 2011 and 3% in 2010.
As of December 31 2011 Revlon Venezuela had not fully resumed business following the June 2011 fire.
Prior to the fire approximately half of the net sales in Venezuela were sourced from our local production facility and the other half was imported from our U.S.
manufacturing facility.
In August of 2011 we resumed shipments to Venezuela and customers are product imported from our U.S.
facility.
Actions to address the sourcing of products previously manufactured locally remain under review at this time.
Additional details of the financial impact of the Venezuela fire and its impact on our business are included in today's earnings release and the company's form 10-K for 2011.
Moving to the P&amp; L for the fourth quarter 2011 my commentary on net sales will exclude the impact of changes in foreign currencies.
Net sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $359.8 million essentially unchanged year-over-year.
In the United States net sales decreased $98.4 million or 4.7% as Chris discussed earlier in this call.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased $1.4 million or 2.3% driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China and certain distributor markets partially offset by lower net sales in Australia.
In Europe Middle East and Africa net sales increased $4 million or 7.1% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in South Africa and certain distributor markets.
Next in Latin America net sales increased $1.5 million or 5% this increase was primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color throughout the region as well as higher net sales of other beauty care products in Argentina.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales in Venezuela whereas I previously stated the company had not yet fully resumed since the June 2011 fire.
Lastly in Canada net sales decreased $400 000 or $1.9% primarily due to lower net sales of beauty tools and other beauty care products partially offset by higher net sales of Almay color cosmetics.
Moving on to operating income for the fourth quarter operating income was $66 million compared to $67.8 million and adjusted EBITDA was $81.7 compared to $83.3 million in the same period last year.
Operating income and adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2011 were negatively impacted by lower gross profit partially offset by lower SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A expenses decreased versus the prior year primarily due to lower advertising expenses and the benefit of business interruption insurance recoveries related to the fire of Venezuela.
Interest expense decreased $2.9 million to $21.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The provision for income taxes was an expense of $4.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to a benefit of $256.4 million in the same period last year.
Excluding the non-cash tax benefits discussed earlier of $6.9 million in 2011 and $260.6 million in 2010.
The provision for income taxes in the fourth quarter of 2011 was an expense of $21.3 million as compared to an expense of $4.2 million in 2010.
Net income in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $36.4 million or $0.70 per diluted share compared to $296.2 million or $5.66 per diluted share in the same period last year.
Turning now to cash flow.
Operating cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $67.8 million to $47.2 and free cash flow was $63.6 compared to $43.5 million in the same period last year.
Favorable changes in working capital were partially offset by higher permanent cabinetry spending as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of December 31 2011 was $228 million comprised of $100.7 million of available cash and $127.3 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Our revolving credit facility was undrawn at yearend and we had $11.1 million of standby letters of credit issued under this facility.
Moving on to 2012.
Let me update you on several factors that we expect to impact our 2012 financial performance.
Consistent with our historical practice I will provide you with our expectations regarding certain 2012 cash flow information.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $25 million.
Permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $35 million.
Cash interest expense can be estimated by reference to our public filings which detail the composition of our capital structure as well as the applicable interest rates.
And lastly cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $20 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll go first to Carla Casella from JPMorgan.
I had two questions one is could you just talk about the European environment if you're seeing any stabilization or still weakening in which countries there? In Europe as you know we have some major markets as far as in U.K.
and South Africa and there we have a number of distributor markets.
So I mean all that we see through those markets is what you will see reading in the press day and day out.
There is no special category for cosmetics that's doing particularly differently.
We are not highly exposed to some of the markets which are having the most difficult times.
Meanwhile we do see some slow growth in some places but we're very focused on executing our plan.
And then just from a capital structure standpoint I mean your bonds are callable next year.
I guess what is your view in terms of optimal capital structure? Do you view these as expenses that you would want to take out of the first opportunity or how are you looking about that? Are you thinking about the refinancing next year or leaving them outstanding? We look at our capital structure all the time and make sure that we are able to have the right capital structure to execute the business strategy.
And so consistent with Alan's comments earlier in his opening remarks and as we've said in the past part of our strategy is to have a capital structure which enables the operations to perform.
And so we don't have a special look at any particular instrument.
We're well aware of the features and the provisions of each and we monitor them.
And the next question comes from David Wu from Telsey Advisory Group.
First in the U.S.
any trends you could call out perhaps between sellout rates across your channels whether your mass retailers or drugstores? We haven't seen any change in the last course for the trends that we've seen throughout the year.
The cosmetics category in the U.S.
had continued to be showing reasonable growth and that continued in the fourth quarter.
Although started to slowdown slightly towards the end as ever competition remains intense in that category not only between ourselves and our competitors but between our customers.
And would you say the environment in the U.S.
as well as in Europe got more promotional? And what are your expectations for 2012? The environment has always been intensely promotional in the U.S.
I don't see in the last quarter any sign about changing.
And I don't know rather that would change in the short term.
I think what you see David is just to build upon that as you see overtime both retailers and manufacturers optimizing their mix of brand support between advertising and promotional spending depending on what they see in the marketplace.
So quarter-to-quarter those events will fluctuate but the basis of competition hasn't really changed.
In terms of ad spending could you quantify at all how much of the ad spending did decline in the quarter? And maybe perhaps talk about how you're planning for FY '12? In terms of ad spending we don't talk specifically on a quarterly basis.
What I will tell you is that we spent what we believe to be at a competitive level in 2011 across the entire portfolio and across the entire suite of opportunities to spend.
And I will tell you that we will continue to do same in 2012.
And we'll go next to Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.
I think you said in your prepared remarks that part of the reason U.S.
sales were down part of the reason that there was a high level of returns and allowances was to clear the way for the new product introduction for 2012.
But everything you mentioned I think has already been put on store shelf.
So what exactly were you referencing with that comment? So Connie as you know in the U.S.
marketplace the new products for the following year are shipped in the fourth quarter and hence the returns are associated with those shipments.
Now in amongst those shipments were two groups really one was a normal ribbon of innovation which you know is significant in this category.
The second this is we also restaged some core products which are ongoing core products which you wouldn't normally be shipping as a new product sort of as a hard launch in that period.
But because they were restages on Revlon ColorStay quads for example and Revlon core nail hence they attracted returns because of that.
On an annual basis since we don't have the actual sales dollars for Sinful Color that we've estimated but it looks to us that on an annual basis U.S.
sales organically declined about 2.5% in 2010 and maybe 1.5% in 2011? Well as I mentioned in my remarks Connie.
Net sales in the U.S.
region in 2011 grew excluding the results of Sinful Colors.
So then on an organic basis do you think the U.S.
business has turned a corner such that you're on a path now to annual sales growth? Well Connie we never as you know give guidance.
And neither do we say that one quarter establishes a trend.
As always we're focused on the same drivers of success.
We're focused on that product portfolio having the right advertising promotion support and executing well in store and we continue to be focused on those things.
I know you don't talk anymore about your market share data.
But the market share data for the last quarter in face and eye makeup showed declines of about 140 basis point.
What should we factor that in to what the U.S.
decline was? Why shouldn't that be a consideration? Well as you know Connie one of the reasons we stopped talking about the market share data was its partial market share data.
It doesn't cover Wall Mart who is everybody's biggest customer in the mass market business.
So that was why we stopped talking about it.
In terms of the category one thing which I think you will have seen is that the nail segment exploded.
And that did change the shape of the overall category in 2011.
In Venezuela how long do the insurance proceeds continue? The insurance proceeds Connie they continue into 2012.
But at this point in time we are just in discussions with our insurer.
And as we said the 10-K has all the detail about its impact on '11.
But we haven't predicted what the impact will be on '12.
And are you subject to any of the price cap in Venezuela that the government is trying to impose? Color cosmetics isn't on that list as it stands today Connie.
Deodorants are but that's not a material impact for us.
One last thing why is CapEx going from $14 million this year to $25 million next year? A couple of things.
One of the things that we are focused on is driving efficiencies in some of the processes that are pretty manually intensive today.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we've bought a new Chief Supply Chain Officer on board towards the back half of 2011.
And I've had some very in-depth discussion with him about where we can deploy some additional capital to automate certain processes that are manually intensive today.
And so the capital investment is really designed to get ferret out those efficiencies and create a better cost profile going forward.
Did you spend in 2011 up to what you had budgeted in CapEx? No.
We had a plan to spend about $20 million and we spent about $15 million.
Does that just mean that some projects were delayed into 2012? Well there's a variety of things.
Some projects that you plan to execute don't happen for a variety of reasons.
There was no real overt action that we took to influence that.
But certainly some of those projects that were approved will happen in '12.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Ennis I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining our conference call.
As I mentioned and as you have heard we are strengthening our brands we're investing in our people and we're improving our financial profile.
Our focus in 2012 will be to build upon the solid foundation and competitive margin structure that we've established.
Importantly I'd like to express my sincere appreciation to all of our employees around the world for our many accomplishments in 2011.
And look forward to speaking to you all when we report our first quarter 2012 results.
Thank you.
That concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
At the conclusion of today’s presentation we will open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may now begin Ma’am.
Thank you Dorris.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the first quarter ended March 31 2012.
If you’ve not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the company’s filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and our 2012 first quarter Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we’ve discussed with you in the past Revlon’s vision is glamour excitement and innovation through high quality products at affordable prices and this underpins everything we do.
We realized this vision by executing the five key elements of our business strategy: building our strong brands; developing our organizational capability; driving our company to act globally; increasing our operating profit and cash flow; and improving our capital structure.
We are carrying positive momentum into 2012 with respect to our strategic goal of profitably growing our business and in the first quarter we made progress in a number of areas.
With regard to our top line net sales grew as a result of the inclusion of the acquisition of Sinful Colors and improved net sales in Asia Pacific Latin America and Canada.
While we saw net sales growth in our Latin America region we continue to experience lower net sales in Venezuela as we have not yet fully resumed there following the June 2012 fire at our local facility.
We saw some softness in the U.S and EMEA regions which is primarily due to lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics in the US and fragrances in EMEA.
Overall we remain focused on generating profitable top line growth in each of our five regions.
With regard to our Revlon brand our new product launches performed very well in the marketplace with particularly strong performance by Revlon ColorBurst Lip Butter and Revlon ColorStay Nail Enamel they’ll level both of which were launched with compelling advertising campaigns.
We believe that Revlon’s brand success in the marketplace is driven by delivering it in a high-quality new products supported by effective brand communication and superb in-store execution.
Our continued emphasis and focus of this approach is of the utmost importance to our objectives of driving profitable growth.
From a financial perspective we again delivered competitive operating income margins in the quarter.
We continuously seek to optimize the investment of resources focusing on opportunities that would deliver the greatest return.
And finally our capital structure is solid and our financial profile is strong.
And lastly before I turn the call over to Chris let me remind you that the Annual Revlon Run/Walk For Women our New York Run/Walk is on Saturday May 5 and will be hosted by our newest brand ambassadors Emma Stone and Olivia Wilde.
Los Angeles Run/Walk is on Saturday May 12 and will be hosted by our brand ambassador Halle Berry.
We are very proud of our longstanding philanthropic support for women’s health initiatives and the fight against women’s cancers.
Over the years we have helped raise millions of dollars for research education and advocacy.
If you would like to donate to this cause or register to participate in either of the Run/Walk events please visit revlonrunwalk.org.
So with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies by region and by brand.
Total company net sales in the first quarter of 2012 was $330.7 million an increase of $1.5 million versus the first quarter of last year.
The first quarter of 2012 benefited from the higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon Colorsilk hair color as well as the inclusion of the net sales of Sinful Colors for a full quarter.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics and fragrances as well as lower net sales in Venezuela due to the June 2011 fire.
In the United States net sales in the first quarter of 2012 decreased $1.5 million.
Lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics and Revlon beauty tools were partially offset by the inclusion of the net sales of Sinful Colors for a full quarter in 2012.
The largest driver of lower net sales in the U.S was is in the eye segment of Almay color cosmetics primarily the Intense I franchise.
Last year we had a very successful launch of Intense I smoky eye kit which brought industry leading innovation to consumers.
While we continued to expand to restate the Intense I franchise in 2012 it’s net sales performance neither met our expectations nor matched its performance in the first quarter of 2011.
We are not satisfied with our Almay’s U.S performance and as a result we are reviewing all elements of Almay’s marketing mix including adaptations to our brand support times.
Now let me return to a discussion of the first quarter results outside of the U.S.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased $1.2 million or 2.3% primarily due to the higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in certain distributor markets.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales decreased to $800 000 or 1.6%.
Lower net sales of fragrances in Italy and in certain distributor markets were partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in certain distributor markets.
We continue to be very pleased with the strong marketplace performance of the Revlon brand in the U.K.
In Latin America net sales increased $1.7 million or 6.3% primarily due to the higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon Colorsilk hair color partially offset by the lower net sales in Venezuela/With respect to Venezuela you will recall the price of the fire in June of last year which destroyed our local facility.
Approximately half of the net sales was sourced locally and the other half were imported from our U.S facility.
In August of 2011 we resume shipping of products imported from the U.S and in 2012 we began importing certain products from third party manufacturers outside of Venezuela.
However net sales in Venezuela have not resumed to the pre-fire level.
Actions to address of sourcing of products previously manufactured locally are still under review at this time.
Finally with respect to our Canada region net sales increased $900 000 or 5.2% primarily due to the higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon beauty tools.
Now moving onto the performance by brand starting with Revlon cosmetics total company net sales increased as compared to the prior year.
We continue to innovate and introduce some great new products in size we expanded our PhotoReady franchise with the introduction of three Lightweight primers.
The use of primers is gaining traction as an additional step in the consumers makeup regime to transform skin into a smooth canvas for makeup application.
Also within the PhotoReady franchise we introduced Airbrush Mousse Makeup which contains innovative photochromatic pigments that bend and reflect light to give a flawless air brushed appearance.
Today Airbrush Mousse is performing well in the marketplace.
In Eye we introduced PhotoReady 3D volume mascara a revolutionary volumizing mascara with a unique reflecting formula that makes lashes look a 100% more magnified and multiplied.
And continuing in eye re-staged and upgraded Revlon ColorStay eyeshadow quotes with 16 hour wear and new premium design and packaging.
This restaging is consistent with our approach of not just expanding our product range with new products but also strengthening our existing products with new technology.
In late we extended our Revlon ColorBurst franchise introducing Revlon ColorBurst that’s a rebound that instantly contract while providing color with the high shine.
Today we launched our Revlon ColorBurst Lip Butter has been exceptionally well received in the marketplace.
Lastly now we introduced ColorStay Longwear Nail Enamel containing our exclusive color state light curing technology which cures in natural light versus the solid UV lights providing a gel like shine and 11 days of high impacts color.
Today ColorStay nail color is performing very well in the marketplace.
Three of our new Revlon Color Cosmetics products one Oprah Magazine spring makeup awards.
Revlon ColorBurst Lip Butter Revlon PhotoReady 3D volume mascara and ColorStay Longwear Nail Color.
ColorBurst Lip Butter was also recognized in REDBOOK’s magazines May edition as possibly MVP Awards as the best interlock balm as well as the in Seventeen Magazine February edition as part of the 2012 read waves.
Moving on to the Almay brand.
As I discussed earlier in the business performance by region net sales decreased year-over-year driven by our performance in eye in the U.S.
Aside from Eye from a marketplace perspective we maintained a positive performance in space with our major in the period.
Largely behind us much a franchise which included the introduction of Almay’s first primer Smart Shade perfect incorrect.
In women’s hair color net sales of Revlon Colorsilk increased versus the first quarter of 2011.
Building on the success of Colorsilk and culture of loom Mister we introduced Root Erase by Colorsilk which erases roots and beautiful seamless color in 10 minutes.
Root Erase was in housekeeping and also was recognized in Okay magazine spring beauty awards calling it the fastest roots fix.
Year-to-date we are pleased with the performance of our Root Erase and I’ll call franchise.
And finally with regard to Revlon beauty tools net sales were down in the quarter.
Well our capital remain soft we continue to maintain our strong position as the number one brand in the U.S and Canada.
And in 2012 we have new products performing well in the marketplace including our Mini Tweezer Set and Designer Nail Files.
Now I’ll turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
As we have already discussed our net sales performance I will start with gross margin performance in the quarter.
In the first quarter of 2012 our gross profit margin was 65% versus 66% in the first quarter of 2011.
The lower gross margin in the first quarter of 2012 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of product mix.
SG&amp;A in the first quarter of 2012 decreased $4.5 million or 2.6% to $170.7 million primarily due to lower advertising expenses as a result of the timing of advertising campaigns as compared to 2011.
Also in SG&amp;A in the first quarter of 2012 we recognized a $1.1 million benefit from insurance recoveries essentially making the company financially whole for business interruption losses during the period related to the June 2011 fire in Venezuela.
Additional details of the impact to our business of the Venezuela fire are included in our Form 10-Q filed earlier today.
Operating income in the first quarter of 2012 was $44.3 million compared to $44.7 million in the same period last year and adjusted EBITDAR was $60 million compared to $60.7 million in the same period a year ago.
Interest expense including dividends on preferred stock decreased $2.6 million to $21.6 million in the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to the refinancing of our term loan in May 2011 at lower interest rates.
Income before taxes was $19.5 million as compared to $18.1 million in the first quarter of 2011.The provision for income taxes was $11 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $7.7 million in the same period last year.
Net cash paid for income taxes was $3.4 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $2.2 million in the same period last year.Net income in the first quarter.
Net income in the first quarter of 2012 was $8.5 million or $0.16 per diluted share compared to net income of $10.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share in the same period last year.
Moving on to cash flows net cash used in operating activities in the first quarter of 2012 was $20.4 million compared to a source of $24.1 million in the same period last year.
Free cash flow was a negative $23.9 million compared to a positive free cash flow of $21.7 million in the same period a year ago.
2012 included the renewal and partial pre-payment of premiums for certain of the company’s multi-year insurance programs.
Second during the first quarter of 2012 we began to experience the cash impact of higher sales returns and allowances as expected and as previously accrued for in the fourth quarter of last year.
As a reminder during our year-end 2011 earnings call in February of this year we discussed a higher than usual number of product discontinuance in advance of our extensive 2012 new product introductions.
And lastly impacting cash flow in the first quarter of 2012 was a net unfavorable change to other working capital.
As a reminder with respect to operating cash flow in general the timing of cash flows from working capital can vary from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of March 31 2012 was $200.4 million comprised of $78 million of available cash and $122.4 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Our revolver was undrawn at the end of the quarter and we had $10.7 million of standby letters of credit issued under this facility.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Good morning Carla.
Paul – JPMorgan: Hello this is Paul on for Carla Casella.
Hi Paul.
Hi how are you doing? First I was wondering if you give us some color on the timing of your product launches this year versus last?  Sure.
I mean as you know around the world product launches vary by quarter.
Within North America there are 2 major tranches of product launches.
So the – everyone in general ships the major tranche towards the end of the prior year in December and they appear in store in December and January onwards.
And then as the second tranche which happens towards the end of the second quarter of the year appearing still from June onwards.
Great.
And is there any significant shifts in your sales given the Easter shift?  No we haven’t been conscious of any of that.
Got you.
And then has some warm weather helped your sales in the U.S at all?  There is – much of the correlation between the weather and some of our products Paul.
Great.
And then finally what are your thoughts around refinancing in your capital structure?  As we always do we look at the marketplace as well as our business when we evaluate our capital structure on a regular basis – there is nothing that we’ve done differently at this point time versus what we’ve done in the past.
We evaluate and we make those decisions as and when appropriate.
Great.
Thanks very much.
All right.
Our next question comes from David Wu with Telsey Advisory Group.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Dave.
Hi.
First on the gross margin you sound like you didn’t see an impact from higher promotional allowances this quarter I am wondering if that implies that you’re seeing less competitive environment out there and if you could perhaps talk about your expectations for the remainder of the year?  Yeah.
As it relates to gross profit in the first quarter they’re were couple of impacts one as we talked about there was the impact of product mix which reduced gross profit as a percentage of net sales by about seven-tenths of a percentage point.
In addition we had higher allowances and those reduced gross profit as a percentage of net sales by about four-tenths of a point.
So okay so you did see higher allowances.
And offsetting also that were certain offsets to that one related to inventory obsolescence and sales returns and that had a increase to gross profit of about two-tenths of a point.
And as we talked about the past you know our objective is to deliver a competitive operating margins.
And so what we do is we are looking at obviously the gross margin generated and then the costs that we incur to support those products to drive consumption delivering the competitive operating margins that we once again see delivered in the first quarter of 2012.
I think David to add to that- add to Stevens’ point as it relates to the environment I mean the competitive environment remains intense.
And you know period to period you’ll see the competitive set shift between higher promotional activity and lower advertising or higher advertising or low promotional activity and we stay very tuned to that to make sure that we’re supporting our brands in both those drivers at the appropriate level.
But it as intense as it has been.
Got it and in Latin America your performance in Venezuela you obviously is still impacted by the plant fire last year.
I was wondering if you could perhaps give us an update on our manufacturing strategy there in the region? You did mention using some third party suppliers which you could perhaps elaborate more on that and if ultimately you’re planning to rebuild a new plant there and timing on that?  We’ll.
I mean first of all the first thing I would say to keep in mind Venezuela was 2% of our net sales.
Let’s keep that in context so small.
Secondly as we said pre-fire about sales being – Venezuela came from our U.S facility and the other half was sourced locally.
We had a manufacturing facility that as you know gone down.
We’ve now received as you said since last August supplies from our US facility and while – Venezuela facility still is burned down and as no manufacturing going on there we’ve had to resort to supplies from third-party manufacturers outside Venezuela.
As for the future at this stage and view our manufacturing going forward.
Our first objective was to quickly get some product back in the marketplace to have to stay we’ll have to take the alternatives that were available in the short term.
Great.
And in on ad spending.
Can you elaborate more on the different timing in ad spending this year versus last year and when perhaps we should see in maybe some more pressure on SG&amp;A on this year.
And then just related to marketing can you perhaps talk about through that the findings of any new sort of consumer add or product testing you’ve done recently and what you could do perhaps to drive better sales and especially on Almay.
I know you you’ve previously just mentioned that you’re looking into new strategies there.
Okay.
So advertising as Alan mentioned earlier the mix between advertising and promotion.
And just a reminder from a financial reporting perspective net sales were reported net to promotional allowances while the advertising cost were recorded in SG&amp;A.
So depending on the nature of the brand supporting the period it ends up being in different locations on the income statement but that’s the first thing.
And secondly I would say effective brand support not just about advertising but also primer activity digital and social media as well as in-store activities.
So the way we approach the business is our strategies for advertising promotion is to drive the new product introductions with the appropriate levels of total advertising promotion and not include these point of sale activities.
We always plan to do that through coordinated joint business funds to our key customers.
So that’s another key part of the equation that these are all related to what customers are doing and what way they’re doing.
So that’s what I would say about advertising.
In terms of product testing we extensively tested all of our new products before we launched them we’ve certain actions done that we must meet before the product where they are launched and we also tested our advertising.
And over the last five years advertising test scores have consistently returned so very happy with these effectiveness of our advertising.
And then you asked about Almay as I said the Almay decline was driven by the eye performance.
Simple thing to say about the Almay brand first of all each are well defined brand with a low customer base among consumers with sensitive skin and eyes.
That’s a great benefit we have and our offering is positioned to meet that need.
So as we focus on enhancing that within a number of things first of all we were working on refining the brand proposition to the consumer we’re also improving the merchandise of the brand which includes the instore roll out as well as graphics and packaging.
And then we’re going to continue doing some things looking very well for us so leveraging Kate Hudson who is our Almay brand ambassador who believe we had a very positive impact with consumers.
And we also continue to focus on innovative new product development which you know in this category.
That’s a key driver of net sales performance.
Excellent.
And then just lastly can you comment on how inventory levels are tracking across the U.S mass retailers and drug stores and whether or not that the sell-in versus sell-out rates are potentially more or less in line with each other?  Yeah I think that as we constantly say instant inventory is an constant focus of the retailers and they’re watching it constantly we watch it with them because in our interest to have the right inventory there.
We haven’t called out any impacts in the quarter from inventory fluctuations it’s a constant source of focus for both the retailer and us.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Reza Vahabzadeh with Barclays.
Good morning.
How are you?  Good.
As far as marketing spending at this quarter it was marketing spending was down but as you mentioned you have an extensive line of new products said to be unfolded and then shipped out.
So does that mean that essentially marketing spending for the rest of the year is likely to be up?  Well your conclusion is not necessarily actual what I said was marketing spending is a combination of advertising which you see in SG&amp;A and promotional allowances in which occur before net sales.
So as I said we constantly monitor the competitive environment.
And in addition work with our customers on our joint business plans.
So the particular leave us with poll of any one-time can change and we intend to name to support our new products with appropriate levels of what I would call brand support advertising and promotion in-store display merchandising all those things.
There are many parts of the marketing mix that’s in there.
The other thing I would say is be careful about looking at one quarter.
Over a time is what we need to look at as a best indication of our brands quarters change and things don’t necessarily always lineup within the quarter.
I think that the net point there Reza is that we’re going to spend what we believe to be appropriate in the marketplace both on advertising and means to commercial.
And so as to know you shouldn’t read anything into the decline in advertising spending in the first quarter.
Okay.
The reason I ask that because you clearly pointed out that promotional allowances were up 40 basis points in the first quarter but SG&amp;A was 100 basis points slower so what one does look at our best indicators of total marketing spending promo and brand support.
It seems like the first quarter was lower and yet you do have some new products we shipped out in the second quarter and so I just assume that this was a timing factor.
Well we believe our total advertising promotions support in the quarter was appropriate.
Right.
And then as far as the category in general.
Can you discuss your outlook for the category at least here in the U.S? How the consumers are responding to the category offerings and then spending and what your competition is doing out there are there introducing more products or are they increasing marketing support any color would be appreciated.
Well the consumer like this category.
It continues to perform pretty well in the economic environment.
It’s very accessible for consumers there is being an explosion in the nail category for example which is a good example of accessibility of introduced product the level of competition remains intense.
We’ve got no reason to suspect that will change as for forecast in the category I can’t really forecast all I can tell you is it continues to be robust.
And you may have alluded to this before but retailer inventory levels are in what shape?  Well they continue to be constantly monitored by the retailer and by us you know there is no reduction in their retention to them they continue to pay close attention to them so do we because it’s very important for us that we have the right inventory at point of sale but we haven’t called out any impact from inventory in this quarter.
I see and I’m sorry you mentioned the insurance recovery in this quarter I guess I missed it?  Yeah as you may have recalled in the fourth quarter of last year and during last year as a result of the fire that we had hit our Venezuela facility in June of 2011.
We have received insurance proceeds and those insurance proceeds are – back in February.
Right.
And then as far as working capital in the first quarter as you highlighted you had to make payments on the multi-year insurance program.
So for the year our working capital still washed out or because of this use?  Well I would look at the first quarter and draw an conclusion about the balance of the year we don’t we haven’t given guidance on the full year working capital consistent with our guidance on cash flow we’ve talked about the absolute level of certain items.
As I indicated in my prepared remarks and as we’ve constantly done a very strong focus on maintaining a low level of investment in working capital but yet supporting the business appropriately.
So making sure we have the right inventory and the right level of our accounts receivable and accounts payable management.
Once again it’s going to vary from quarter to quarter just as a function of the business activities that we engage in.
I see and so on mix when you talked about the mix being negative for you on the gross margin line this quarter was that because of the beauty tools or was that because of Almay or something else?  On a brand by brand basis we don’t specifically discuss the impact on our margin really we’re talking about is with our portfolio of products in various retailers across the globe and there are different price points and different cost associated with those products getting to the channel with the componentry packaging and the formulation of those products and so there’s a number of factors which go into the gross margin none of which were if you would add a line with what we would typically experience in any period in the first quarter.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Connie.
Hey I am wondering if you can comment on whether any the new entrance into the category had an impact on its positioning and attraction to consumer?  Well I would say that category continues to be extremely attractive to the consumer Connie.
As you know the consumer likes the variety they are very motivated by new products coming in and there’s always in this category a lot of people trying to end with new brands and it’s particularly new thing over the years people have done that.
But I don’t see any change in the attractiveness of the category to the consumer they are very attracted to it.
Okay.
And then just anecdotally because the rest of my questions have really being answered.
And anecdotally maybe 25 or 30 drug stores that I have been looking at in the nail category I’ve never got selection of the Longwear ColorStay nail.
Are you getting the right kind of distribution?  Yeah you should send the list for me we need to fix that.
We’re having a very good launch of ColorStay Nail Enamel actually.
We’re very happy with this performance; performing very well in the marketplace.
So reach a very positive on it.
The rest timing kind reset in the U.S is somewhere between Wal-Mart is to be the first to start in January timeframe and reset probably finished around late April.
And so depending when you went to the drugstore and depending which drugstore it was the reset may not been completed but it’s in full distribution throughout the U.S and throughout our major markets outside the US now.
Okay that’s all I had.
Thanks Connie.
And we’ll go next to Jeff Kobylarz with Stone Harbor Investments.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning.
Just curious about what you mentioned you said little bit earlier about the explosion in nails and what’s driving that and are you participating in that?  So yes well the answer to the second be first.
Yes we’re participating very strongly.
Revlon was founded on nail color that was the first products that the company had back in 1932.So we have a strong heritage in nail we have very strong formulations and we have a good brand position on nail.
And we have a very strong pipeline of new products coming.
You’ve started to see some of them in the marketplace and you’ll be seeing a lot more.
In terms of nail itself as a category yes it has exploded and it’s a trend of people accessorizing more.
As compared to some other product categories there is no so much concerned about getting it wrong.
Yeah the people who don’t wear a lot of foundation or worried about how their liquid lipstick but everybody finds nail very accessible.
So that as you see a number of different segments emerging.
So you have call color which we have a strong position in.
We innovated with sensitive nail which is in a good performance for us.
We launched our top speed quick Dry Nail Enamel which dries in less than 60 seconds enables people to change their nail color very frequently.
And of course we’ve just launched our gel-like s Long Wear nail and gel nail is a big trend in the southerns but as anyone would tell you it’s quite expensive.
And secondly it’s very difficult to remove.
So our gel nail which we referred to earlier the ColorStay gel nail is going to be very successful for us.
The other thing I would mention is of course we made the acquisition last year of Sinful Nail Color.
Sinful Nail Color is also performing extremely well and we’re very pleased with that.
Can you give any general comments about your outlook for cost this year? Just as far as – as far out as you look to did they look stable with last year or is there any pressure from the written off prices over last 12 months?  Well a couple of things Jeff.
I mean first of all you know what we’re focused primarily on is driving profitable growth and so you know there is – in this marketplace it’s very easy to drive the top line but you lose a lot of money if you do it the wrong way.
And so we’re making sure that we’re growing and making investment choices that have a positive return for us that’s the first thing.
Secondly as it relates to the commodity prices like everybody in the space we experience pressures from changes in commodity prices like oil as you mentioned but we’ve been effectively able to do over the last number of years is find ways to offset those cost pressures such that we maintain as we have from the last couple of years of very competitive operating income margin.
I would tell you that you know quarter-to-quarter you’re going to see shift in the gross margin as Steven talked about and even in the OI margins.
But over time we believe that we have the right structure and processes in place to maintain the highly effective and highly competitive operating margins.
Okay thank you.
And then can you comment about the line reviews that occurred this year in the shop space? Is there any change you can comment about for this year versus last year?  Yeah.
We’re seeing no significant change in space this year.
All right.
And then can you give any guidance for cash taxes this year?  We’re given cash taxes guidance previously and that is $20 million are expected in 2012 which is consistent with our guidance that we gave back in February.
All right.
So I missed that.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you Jeff.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Mr.
Elise I’ll turn the call back to you sir for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much and thanks for joining our call this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report our second quarter results later this year.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
At the conclusion of today’s presentation we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may now begin Ms.
Garofalo.
Thank you Karenna.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the second quarter ended June 30 2012.
If you’ve not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the company’s filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and our 2012 second quarter Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in the financial tables at the end of our release.
Finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we’ve discussed for some time our strategic goal is to profitably grow our business.
Overall we had a positive quarter and I am pleased with our performance so far this year.
From a net sales perspective we grew 4.2% in the quarter and 2.4% year-to-date.
Our Revlon brands performed very well in the market place again this quarter.
We are pleased with both new and core product performance during the period and are excited about our recent new product introductions.
From a regional perspective we grew in the US Canada and Latin America however we experienced some softness in Europe Greater China and Australia.
As we move forward we will continue to manage our resources carefully given the uncertain global economic environments.
While we continue to drive growth organically we are also growing through acquisitions and are excited about the recent addition of Pure Ice to our brand portfolio.
Pure Ice is a wide range of value priced nail color products which have been in distribution for over 20 years in the U.S mass retail channel.
This acquisition complements our brand portfolio and builds on the successful acquisition of the Sinful Colors brand in 2011.
From a financial perspective we had a positive quarter as we continue to deliver competitive operating income margins and our financial profile remains strong.
So with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies.
Total company net sales in the second quarter of 2012 were $357.1 million an increase of 4.2 % as compared to the second quarter of last year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
In the United States net sales increased $9 million or 4.6% primarily driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics.
In Asia Pacific net sales decreased $1.7 million or 2.9% primarily driven by lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China and Australia and lower net sales of other beauty care products in Hong Kong.
These lower net sales were partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color in certain distributor territories.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales decreased $1.8 million or 3.5%.
The decrease was primarily due to lower net sales of fragrances in the U.K.
and certain distributor territories as well as lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in France Italy and certain distributor territories.
This was partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in the U.K where we continue to be very pleased with a strong marketplace performance of the Revlon brand.
In Latin America net sales increased of $7.3 million or 27.8% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color throughout the region.
Venezuela’s increase in net sales was primarily due to the absence of sales in June 2011 as a result of the fire that destroyed the Company’s facility there last year.
Net sales in the region also benefitted from higher selling prices in Venezuela and Argentina which accounted for approximately one-third of the $7.3 million net sales increase in the region.
Finally with respect to our Canada region net sales increased $2.1 million or 10.8% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics.
Now moving onto the performance by brand starting with Revlon color cosmetics total company net sales increased as compared to the prior year.
In phase earlier this year we expanded our PhotoReady franchise with the introduction of Airbrush Mousse Makeup which contains innovative photochromatic pigments that bend and reflect light to give a flawless air brushed appearance.
PhotoReady Airbrush Mousse is performing well in U.S.
and Canada.
Also in phase we recently introduced Revlon ColorStay Whipped Crème Makeup a foundation with a Mousse like texture with time release technology that provides up to 24 hours of wear without feeling heavy.
In lip our ColorBurst Lip Butter continues to perform exceptionally well in the market place and has now been launched in all of our major markets.
This buttery balm that instantly hydrates lips while providing color with a high shine finish is an extension of our established ColorBurst franchise.
Also in lip building up on our successful Revlon Just Bitten franchise we recently introduced Kissable Balm Stain.
A balm infused with a light weight lip stain packaged in a retractable chubby crayon that gives women softer smoother lips with a perfect flush of color.
Today this product has been extremely well received in the market place and in these early days shows every sign of being as successful as our ColorBurst Lip Butter.
In Eye we restaged and upgraded our Revlon ColorStay Eyeshadow Quads with 16 hour wear and new premium design and packaging.
This restaging is consistent with our approach of not just expanding our product range with new products but also strengthening our existing products with new technology.
These new quads have performed well in the market place.
Also in eye we recently introduced ColorStay overtime lengthening mascara formulated to create long intensely dark lashes for 24 hours of wear.
And lastly nail we introduced ColorStay Longwear Nail Color containing our exclusive color stay light curing technology which cures in natural light versus a sullen UV light providing a gel like shine and 11 days of high impacts color.
Today ColorStay nail color is performing well in the marketplace.
Finally with respect to the Revlon Brand earlier this month we launched a Revlon Expression Experiment a unique digital engagement platform designed to spark a social movement of makeup experimentation.
Accessible through Revlon’s Facebook page this new platform provides women with monthly challenges beginning with a Red Lipstick Challenge.
The launch of the new platform will be supported by digital advertising as well as promotions on Twitter Facebook and YouTube.
Moving on to the Almay brand.
Net sales increased during the quarter as compared to the prior year.
However we remain dissatisfied with the market place performance of the brand.
The higher net sales in the quarter were driven by lower returns in allowances and the cycling of the five in Venezuela.
As I mentioned last quarter we are very focused on improving all elements of Almay's marketing mix.
We have made changes to future advertising promotional plans which we believe we’ll improve the combined effectiveness overtime.
We continue to place emphasis on refine in the brand positioning as well as improving the overall merchandising of the brand.
Additionally we remain focused on innovative new product developments which is an essential driver of net sales performance.
With respect to both our Revlon and Almay color cosmetics performance we have recently received a number of awards in recognition of our competitive levels of innovation from magazine such as Total Beauty SELF Magazine and REDBOOK.
We believe these will demonstrate the strength of our new product portfolio and we are very pleased to receive recognition that we are meeting the needs of consumers with so many of our products in 2012.
In women’s hair color net sales of Revlon Colorsilk increased versus the second quarter of 2011.
Building on the success of Colorsilk and Colorsilk Luminista we introduced Root Erase by Colorsilk which erases roots and grace with ease for beautiful seamless color in 10 minutes.
Year-to-date we are pleased with the performance and expansion of both Root Erase and our Colorsilk franchise including our recent introduction in Canada.
Antiperspirant deodorants net sales of Mitchum in the second quarter were essentially unchanged year-over-year and finally with regard to Revlon beauty tools net sales were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
While the category remained soft we continue to maintain our strong leadership position and in 2012 we have new products that are performing exceptionally well in the market price.
Now I’ll turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
As we have already discussed our net sales performance I will begin with our gross margin performance in the quarter.
In the second quarter of 2012 our gross profit margin was 65.2 % versus 65.3% in the second quarter of 2011 essentially unchanged year-over-year as the unfavorable impact of product mix was offset by the favorable impact of lower allowances and lower manufacturing and freight costs.
SG&amp;A in the second quarter of 2012 increased approximately $8.4 million to $189.9 million versus the second quarter of 2011 primarily attributable to two items.
First a net charge of $6.7 million with respect to estimated costs of resolving previously disclosed pending litigation related to our 2009 exchange offer.
And second higher incentive compensation primarily due to the timing of expense within 2012 as compared to the same period last year.
These increases were partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations within SG&amp;A as compared to the same period last year.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2012 was $42.8 million compared to $47.8 million in the same period last year and adjusted EBITDA was $58.7 million compared to $63.3 million in the same period a year ago.
Interest expense decreased $2.1 million to $21.2 million primarily due to refinancing the company’s bank term loan credit facility in May 2011 at lower interest rates.
The provision for income taxes was $9.1 million compared to $2.6 million in the same period last year primarily due to increased pre-tax income which was partially offset by the favorable resolution of tax matters in a foreign jurisdiction.
Cash paid for income taxes in the second quarter of 2012 was $7.5 million compared to the $10.1 million in the same period last year.
Net income in the second quarter of 2012 was $11.1 million or $0.21 per diluted share which included a net charge of $6.7 million after tax related to the pending litigation mentioned earlier in my remarks.
Net income in the second quarter of 2011 was $6.5 million or $0.12 per diluted share which included $6.9 million of charges after tax related to the refinancing of the company’s credit facilities.
Moving on to cash flows net cash used in operating activities in the second quarter of 2012 was $1.3 million compared to a use of $20.8 million in the same period last year.
Free cash flow in the second quarter of 2012 was a negative $6.6 million compared to negative $24.2 million in the same period a year ago.
Cash flow in the second quarter of 2012 benefited from favorable changes in working capital and lowered cash interest paid which were partially offset by higher pension contributions.
As a reminder with respect to operating cash flow in general the timing of cash flows from working capital can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of June 30 2012 was $194.1 million which was comprised of $68.6 million of available cash and $125.5 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Our revolver was undrawn at the end of the quarter and we had $10.3 million of standby letters of credit issued under this facility.
Subsequent to the end of the second quarter we funded the July second acquisition of Pure Ice with $45 million of cash on hand and $21.2 million of borrowings from our revolving credit facility.
Moving on to the balance of 2012 regarding the cash flow guidance we previously provided for 2012 the following items remain unchanged.
Capital expenditures of approximately $25 million pension plan contributions of approximately $35 million and cash paid for income taxes of approximately $20 million.
Lastly we are updating our guidance for permanent display expenditures to be approximately $45 million for 2012 an increase from our prior guidance of $40 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participant for questions.
Thank you [Operator Instructions] First we will go to Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
My first question you talked a little bit about inventory but on a year-over-year basis your inventory was down 6%.
How do you see that moving over the course of the rest of the year? A couple of things Grant it’s Alan here.
One of the objectives that we have as a company is to improve profitability and cash flow and clearly inventory management is a key element of working capital and obviously the lower the inventory levels the better our cash flow.
Over the last number of years we’ve done a wonderful job of reducing inventory and improving turns.
You know three or four years ago our turns were about 2.5 times and now they are north of four.
And so what we are doing is through a combination of more effective portfolio planning which means having greater visibility to what we are going to launch in the future and when and a more strict approach to how we manage stock shipments better approach to forecasting new products.
We are able to effectively maintain effective in-store levels and service levels and at the same time reducing our inventory.
So it’s all very much within a managing process of improving cash flow.
Okay.
On the acquisition I think in the Q it says you use the combination of cash and revolver borrowings to fund that July.
Do you expect to be out of your revolver by the end of Q3? Yeah.
It’s Steven Grant.
We don’t forecast as you know any of these numbers but certainly as you know in the past years we have generated a significant portion of our free cash flow on the back half of the year and we don’t see any change in the balance of this year relative to prior periods.
Okay.
My last question you guys have done a couple of smaller acquisitions over the past year year and a half and now the new one.
When should that start to really roll into the earnings line or have we seen that and that’s offsetting something else just trying to get our understanding for the timing? Yeah.
No.
So the Pure Ice acquisition we closed that on July 2<sup>nd</sup>.
In the financial results for the second quarter there was nothing in there obviously because we hadn’t done the business but you will see essentially a full quarter performance in the third quarter and from then on.
Then the other acquisitions that you have completed are you seeing a full benefit from those in terms of which you had expected when you did the acquisition? Yeah.
So Sinful Colors is the one that we did in March of last year so that’s clearly now on an annualized basis between the numbers that’s all periods and is performing very well consistent with our expectations.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi Karenna.
Can you take the next question please? Yes.
We’ll go to Carla Casella with J.P.
Morgan.
Hi.
I have one question on the finance section and a business question.
If you were to refinance your bonds 9¾ quarters bonds would you – is there some restriction would you have to address the Masco [ph] term loan first? Carla it’s Steven as you know or as you may know earlier this year the loan that was payable to McAnderson Forbes was a sign pursuing to the terms of that loan by McAnderson Forbes to unaffiliated third parties.
So that loan is now payable to third parties and there is no requirement in the 9¾% bonds of 2015.
There is no requirement in those that we deal with the subordinated loans in advance or any restrictions associated with that.
Okay.
And is that term loan to third parties is that callable or are there any prepayment policy? Yeah there is a prepayment penalty but the final maturity date is still in the fall of 2014 and that loan has been filed as an exhibit to our previous filings.
So we are happy to answer any questions with that specifically.
If you have that file and you could take a look at it and we can review that at an appropriate time.
Okay.
That’s great.
And then on the display stand the increase is that related to timing of new products or is it retailer demands or is it just a reaction to the competitive environment? Carla it’s Chris here.
We are constantly looking at how we improve our in-store experience.
So as you know particularly in the U.S.
every year there is a twice yearly reset at which we change what is on the display and we often take the opportunity then to upgrade our in-store graphics or our kind of merchandising.
Around the world it happens on a more ongoing basis.
But what we really doing is focusing on improving the in-store experience of the consumer.
But there is nothing really unique.
That’s not like a big change we are making but it’s just a constant continuous upgrade.
Okay great.
And then on in the U.K.
is the Olympics good or bad for business there? Well we haven’t seen any impact from that.
Obviously Olympics only just started this week.
I have read the same as you read which is a number of newspaper reports that Central London is pretty empty and visitors have been avoiding it because of all the traffic congestion.
But we haven’t seen anything.
Okay great.
Then on the nail care with these acquisitions are the - is nails tending to be a stronger margin or in line margin with the color cosmetics? I think if you look across the portfolio new product launches they vary by segment in terms of margin.
The nail tends to be a higher margin business for us than relative to the likes of face which tends to be a lower margin it’s less expensive too to produce.
So you do see some benefits there.
But again we are investing in innovation technologies which are costly obviously to us and investing in new package design across our portfolio which accounts to it.
So overall the margins tend to neutralize each other and again a very highly competitive margin as you know.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
We’ll now go to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Connie Maneaty please go ahead.
There is no response we’ll move on to Brian Schinderle with BAM.
Yeah hi.
Just to expand on Carla’s question on the 9.75% notes.
I believe those become callable in the falls I read.
That’s correct.
Do you have any present intention on dealing with those? I believe that – I believe those trade north of par right? Yes I believe they are trading at a premium and have historically done so over the past several months.
We evaluate our capital structure on a regular basis and that includes of course a 9.75% notes and we are cognizant in on the market place and we’ll continue to look at opportunities to refinance when and as appropriate.
Right.
But is that a way of saying that if you find an attractive option you’ll look at it then or – I mean obviously all your options are open.
But any reason if there was an attractive opening the market why you wouldn’t want to do that and extend out your maturity wall? We evaluate both the maturity as well as the notional amount of the securities and make sure that the capital structure is in line to support the strategic objectives of the business.
So certainly your expectations are continuing to look at that are appropriate.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Keep up the good work.
We’ll now go to [inaudible] with SGIX.
Hi this is Anya Wasch from [inaudible].
It seems like sales in Europe and Asia deteriorated sequentially a bit.
Is that due more to the consumer weakness in those regions or was there any timing of shipments? No if you put values to those regions in terms first of all in China those of you who have seen this slowdown in China our sales have been running still positive but the growth has definitely moderated versus both our expectations and much higher levels last year.
As that’s moderated with the local economy slowing our net sales have declined as a result.
In Europe across Europe it’s mainly driven by our fragrance business which impacted all across Europe and again as you are well aware those many countries where GDP is down and the economic environment is tough for the consumer.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Ennis for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all very much for joining our conference call and for your continued support of our company.
We look forward to speaking with you when we release our third quarter results later this year.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We do thank you all for joining us.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Ms.
Garofalo You may begin.
Thank you Irlanda.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the third quarter ended September 30 2012.
If you’ve not already received the copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the Company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the Company’s filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and our 2012 third quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we’ve discussed for some time our strategic goal is to profitably grow our business.
Overall we had another very positive quarter as we grew net sales by 4.8% on a year-to-date basis our net sales were up 3.2%.
From a regional perspective we grew net sales in the U.S.
Canada Asia Pacific and Latin America.
However we continue to experience softness in Continental Europe and consumer uncertainties persist in several other countries outside of Europe including China and Australia.
From a brand standpoint our Revlon brands continue to perform well in the marketplace.
And we are pleased with the performance of SinfulColors and our recently acquired Pure Ice brands.
From a financial perspective we maintain highly competitive operating income margins and improved cash flow.
During the quarter we announced certain actions to drive operating efficiencies throughout our company including the exiting of certain manufacturing facilities and streamlining our organization in France Italy and Latin America.
Once fully implemented these actions some of which are subject to consultation are expected to generate annualized cost reductions of approximately $10 million and will further enable us to invest in the execution of our strategy.
So taking a look at our performance so far this year we've grown the top line we have sustained highly competitive margins and we are generating positive cash flow all of which reflect the effectiveness of our strategy.
While we remained focused on delivering profitable growth we are keenly aware of the challenging global economic environment until we continue to manage our resources carefully with a balanced perspective on our long-term growth and profitability.
As we marked our 80 anniversary I would like to comment on our recent public service campaign focusing on the message Your Lips Can Save Lives.
This campaign features Revlon’s global Brand Ambassadors Halle Berry and Emma Stone and encourages women to talk about cancer emphasizing the importance of early detection.
Philanthropy is the cornerstone of our heritage and we are proud that this campaign celebrates beauty and depicts the power each individual has to positively impact the lives of others.
So with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance by region and by brands excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies.
Total net sales in the third quarter of 2012 were $347 million an increase of 4.8% as compared to the third quarter of last year.
This increase was primarily driven by high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics as well as the inclusion of Pure Ice net sales since its accusation on July 2.
In the United States net sales increased $7.3 million or 4% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and the inclusion of Pure Ice net sales which will partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk induction.
Net sales in the U.S.
region grew in the quarter excluding the results of Pure Ice.
In Asia-Pacific net sales increased $3.2 million or 5.5% primarily driven by high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Japan and certain distributor territories partially offset by low net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China.
As you are aware the economy in China has been slowing down.
We have also seen a slowdown in consumption.
We continue to ensure that we have the appropriate product portfolio for the consumer in China while working closely with our retail partners and focusing on the execution of our marketing plans.
Moving on to Europe and Middle East and Africa net sales decreased 5.5% to $2.8 million.
Of the $2.8 million dollar decrease $1.6 million was due to the higher returns accrual associated with the previously announced restructuring in France and Italy.
The remaining decrease of $1.2 million or 2.3% in net sales was primarily driven by low net sales of fragrances in the U.K.
and certain distributor directories and low net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Italy.
These declines were partially offset by high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in South Africa.
In Latin America net sales increased $6.3 million or 24.6%.
This increase was primarily driven by high net sales in Venezuela due to the absence of sales for a portion of the 2011 third-quarter as a result of a fire that destroyed the Company's facility there last year.
Net sales in Venezuela and Argentina also benefited from high selling prices reflecting market conditions and inflation which accounted for approximately one quarter of the $6.3 million net sales increase in the region.
Finally with respect to our Canada region net sales increased $2.2 million or 12.4% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics.
Now moving on to the performance by brand; starting with Revlon color cosmetics total company net sales increased as compared to the prior year.
In face earlier this year we extended our PhotoReady franchise with the introduction of Airbrush Mousse Makeup which continues to perform well in the U.S.
Canada and Australia.
Also within the PhotoReady franchise we introduced Perfecting Primer which recently received an Allure Magazine 2012 Best of Beauty Award.
In lip ColorBurst Lip Butter and extension of our established ColorBurst franchise continues to be extremely well received by consumers in all of our major markets.
And also in lip building up on our successful Revlon Just Bitten franchise we introduced Kissable Balm Stain a balm infused with a lightweight lip stain packaged in a retractable chubby crayon; it gives women softer smoother lips with a perfect flush of color.
Today this product is performing extremely well in the U.S.
and we are launching this successful product in other major markets.
In eye this year we restaged and upgraded our Revlon ColorStay eyeshadow quads with 16-hour wear and new premium design on packaging.
These quads we use to create the latest runway looks for several shows during the New York and London fashion weeks.
The restage of these quads has built upon our established ColorStay franchise on a year-over-year basis.
We believe this positive performance is a result of our continued emphasis on developing innovative new products as well as keeping our existing franchises on trend and relevant.
And lastly in Nail trendsetting and innovation are driving our growth in that category in all key markets.
Our most recent new product: ColorStay Longwear Nail Color which provides a one step gel-like shine is performing well in the marketplace.
Overall net sales of the Revlon Nail business increased in the quarter and overall in 2012.
Finally with respect to the Revlon brand.
this summer we launched a Revlon Expression Experiment a unique digital platform accessible through Revlon’s Facebook page.
we are delighted with a significant level of consumer engagements achieved by this platform which is an important indicator a favorable consumer connection with the Revlon brand.
Moving on to the Almay brand net sales decreased during the quarter as compared to the prior year.
As we have stated in prior quarters we have been dissatisfied with the marketplace performance of the brand and our focus on improving Almay’s performance.
So far this year we have made changes to advertising and promotional plans seeking to improve a combined effect in this over time.
Changes include increased media support across the wider range of products and incremental promotional support.
We are also refining our brand positioning and implementing changes to merchandising.
We believe these changes are having a positive impact on our performance in the marketplace.
However net sales were down in the quarter.
Furthermore we aimed to continue to build Almay’s brand affinity through innovative new products and effective brand support which together will be essential in driving the long-term success of Almay.
So as you can see we are focused on the drivers of success for the Almay brand.
In women’s hair color net sales of Revlon ColorSilk were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
we continue to be pleased with the marketplace performance of ColorSilk.
In anti-perspirant deodorants net sales of Mitchum in the third quarter of 2012 decreased as compared to the prior year.
And finally in Revlon beauty tools net sales were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
Consistent with our comments year-to-date the beauty tools category remains soft.
however we continue to maintain our strong leadership position and in 2012 our new products are performing exceptionally well in the marketplace.
Now I’ll turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris starting with gross margin performance in the quarter.
Gross margin was essentially unchanged year-over-year at 63.4% versus 63.5% in the third quarter of 2011.
The third quarter of 2012 gross margin benefited from lower manufacturing and freight costs.
As a result of our supply chain cost reduction initiatives as well as lower allowances in the period.
These were offset by the unfavorable impact of product mix inventory obsolescence and restructuring charges.
SG&amp;A was $179.9 million in the third quarter as compared to $169.3 million in the same period last year.
The $10.6 million increase is primarily attributable to three items.
The first item impacting SG&amp;A was a lower benefit from insurance recoveries related to the June 2011 fire in Venezuela.
We recognized $1.7 million of benefits from insurance in the third quarter of 2012 which was $4.4 million less than the $6.1 million recognized in the third quarter of last year.
Throughout 2012 we have more fully resumed operations in Venezuela resulting in the decrease in benefit from insurance recoveries.
The second item impacting SG&amp;A was a $2.2 million charge in the third quarter with respect to the estimated cost of settling previously disclose litigation related to the Company's 2009 exchange offer.
Together the impact of insurance recoveries and the litigation charge totaled $6.6 million of the $10.6 million increase in SG&amp;A on year-over-year basis.
The balance of the increase in SG&amp;A in the third quarter was primarily due to higher advertising expenses in the period mostly due to the timing of advertising campaigns as compared to the same period last year.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2012 was $19.1 million compared to $44.8 million in the same period last year and adjusted EBITDA was $36.2 million compared to $60.3 million in the same period a year-ago.
Operating income and adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2012 were negatively impacted by $24.1 million of restructuring and related charges associated with the actions announced on September 5.
The quarter was also impacted by the aforementioned charge of $2.2 million related to the estimated cost of settling previously disclosed litigation related to the Company’s 2009 exchange offer.
As Alan mentioned earlier on the call the restructuring actions are expected to generate annualized cost reductions of approximately $10 million with 2013 expected to benefit by $9 million as a result of the timing of implementation of the restructuring actions.
Restructuring and related charges related to the September 5 actions are expected to total approximately $25 million $1.1 million was recorded as an increase in cost of goods sold and lastly $400 000 was recorded in selling general and administrative expenses.
Of the total expected charges of $25 million $23 million are cash charges which will be paid over the next 18 months.
Moving on to interest in the period interest expense decreased $500 000 to $21.5 million due to lower weighted average borrowing rates.
The provision for income taxes was $11.5 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $22.1 million in the same period last year.
The decrease was primarily attributable to decreased pretax income as well as the absence of a number of discrete items that in total negatively affected the provision for income taxes in the third quarter of 2011.
These items did not recur in the third quarter of 2012.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds in the third quarter of 2012 was $2.9 million compared to $1.7 million in the same period last year.
Net loss in the third quarter of 2012 was $15 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to net income of $100 000 or nil per diluted share in the same period last year.
Our net loss this quarter included the after-tax impact of the previously noted restructuring and litigation charges.
Moving on to cash flows net cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter of 2012 was $39.6 million compared to $16.9 million in the same period last year.
And free cash flow was $34.2 million compared to $13.3 million in the same period a year ago.
Cash flow in the third quarter of 2012 benefited from favorable changes in working capital and lower pension contributions as compared to the same period last year.
Net cash used in investing activities in the third quarter of 2012 was $71.6 million primarily due to the Pure Ice acquisition compared to $3.6 million in the same period last year.
As a reminder with respect to operating cash flows in general the timing of cash flows from working capital can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of September 30 2012 was $160.3 million comprised of $33.9 million of available cash and $126.4 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Our revolver was undrawn at the end of the quarter and we had $10.4 million of undrawn standby letters of credit issued under this facility.
Now moving on to cash flows for the full year of 2012 regarding the guidance we have previously provided the following items remain unchanged: capital expenditures of approximately $25 million permanent display expenditures of approximately $45 million and cash paid for income taxes of approximately $20 million.
Lastly we are updating our guidance for pension plan contributions to approximately $30 million revised down from our prior guidance of $35 million due to the impact of U.S.
pension legislation passed earlier this year.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go first to Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Good morning Carla.
Hi good morning I had to unmute.
there’s a couple of questions here.
Given the weakness in internationally is that cost giving you any additional acquisition opportunities or you think it’s likely to free up some brands or properties that might not have been available before and what’s your interest in terms of further acquisitions? Well just in terms of the international market.
clearly there’s a lot of uncertainties out there particularly when you look at the lights of continental Europe and most notably and recently China which is going through its own issues.
In terms of acquisitions we remain interested in looking at opportunities that can complement our brand portfolio; we made two very nice bolt-on acquisitions in the last 18 months with SinfulColors and with Pure Ice.
Our goal obviously is to profitably grow net sales and we’re doing that through a combination of both organic growth and through acquisitions.
and so we will continue to look at opportunities that are additive to our growth objectives and extend our brand portfolio.
Okay.
And then with your bonds callable very soon any thoughts on refinancing plans yet? Carla it is Steven.
Yes as you know we evaluate our debt securities in our capital structure on a regular basis.
we want to make sure that the capital structure is in line to support the strategic objectives that we’ve outlined in details in the past.
This of course includes 9 3 / 4 % notes which as you indicate are callable in November.
And we are very cognizant of the marketplace so we evaluate the conditions and when and as appropriate we’ll address any and all of those opportunities.
Okay great.
and just what brand question on Almay what do you think was the main problem is it that there is too much competition in that same kind of natural segment or was it just not positioned well from a price point standpoint I think you can point to that you think might have been the driver for the weakness there not just this quarter but over the last recent past.
Hi Carla it’s Chris.
So as you know this is a very competitive category.
And the drivers of performance are the things that we’ve outlined that we’re dealing with.
So as I said we’re very focused on the changes we’re making to our advertising and promotional plans.
We believe they are going to improve our performance over time.
We changed and increased our media support and we suppose a wide range of products.
And then we also increased our promotional support.
We’re doing some work on refining and the brand positioning and we’re also implementing some merchandising changes.
So altogether we believe those are going to be the drivers of improvement in the Almay brand.
We are extremely focused on it as you can imagine.
And we’re working very hard to improve that performance.
Okay.
Where are you pricing Almay versus the most direct competition? Well the middle of the mass market with Almay.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Carla.
Our next question will come with Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
this is actually Pat Trucchio filling in for Connie.
Hi Pat good morning.
Hi good morning.
So first on Venezuela if the insurance proceeds have ended should we assume that it’s being made up in the actual operating profit being generated in the country.
And if it isn’t being offset by profit generated in the country when do you lap the difficult comparisons from the Venezuela insurance proceeds? Pat it’s Steve and thanks for the question.
I mean two items one is the insurance proceeds that ended in October of this year ended as related to business interruption insurance okay.
So we have a claim to our insurance company of course for both business interruption as well as the property damage that we sustained.
so just to make clear that that remains outstanding and there’s no timing or ultimate understanding as to the resolution of when that will happen but it’s in process.
You are correct.
so the business in Venezuela has recovered.
And therefore we only were recognizing business interruption insurance relative to an amount to make that business effectively hold during the period.
Okay.
Did I answer your question? Yes.
so the $4.4 million that was made up in the quarter from better performance in the country? It’s correct.
In the U.S.
would sales have increased without Pure Ice? Yes.
As I said in my remarks they had increased excluding Pure Ice.
And then just on the trend in Europe in the quarter.
were sales weaker in September as compared to August and July or is it just weak all the way? Well as you know we don’t break out the months we’re reporting the quarter here.
bear in mind in Europe $1.6 million of the $2.8 million was related to that returns accrual which was associated with the restructuring activities.
So net of that that was really related to our lower net sales of fragrances in the UK and in certain distributor territories plus low net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Italy.
So as you know the European region remains uncertain from the economic point of view.
And hence we’re very focused on making sure that where execution in the marketplace will have any success.
yeah I’ve pointed South Africa where our sales are up.
And of course at the same time there’s a lot we’re taking these actions to restructure our operating model in both France and Italy.
Okay.
thank you so much.
And we’ll hear next from Jeff Kobylarz with Stone Harbor Investments.
Good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
Hi just curious about the restructuring effort and saving $10 million.
can you comment just how that $10 million will be how we’ll play out in the income statement and cash flows will be reinvested say in the brands or will you let it drop down to profits.
Any general color there? Yeah.
So a couple of things.
To the actions we announced specifically included exiting a plant that we owned in France moving out of the leased facility in Maryland and then some organizational streamlining primarily in Italy France and in Latin America.
So most of the actions that we took are our people related in terms of the savings.
So you’ll see those savings start to materialize in the beginning of 2013 obviously some of the actions are subject to consultations.
and so it takes sometime to work through the process.
In terms of the cost reductions listen we look at all of our resources and all of our investment priorities we make decisions about what we need to spend and where.
And so there’s no specific formula that says X and M will drop to profit next will be reinvested.
It’s really a combination of all of the priorities we have.
The resource we have available making sure that we’re investing appropriately behind the brands while maintaining highly competitive margins and we look at the entire pool of resources collectively.
All right fair enough.
And then about this most recent acquisition you made in July.
can you comment about just any kind of color about how accretive this is going to earnings or just to support how you intend to improve this business? Well similar to the business that we acquired in March of last year the SinfulColors business Pure Ice is a predominantly a Nail Color business that has kept meaningful distribution in a major retailer in the U.S.
Both the businesses both SinfulColors and Pure Ice fit very well into our portfolio clearly our heritage as a company has a strong position in Nail.
we know to do Nail and we’re capitalizing on the trends that we’re seeing.
And so both of them are very complementary to our existing portfolio obviously the opportunity for us is to take both of those brands and to deploy them to additional geographies additional retailers where they are in today or different geographies where they are in today.
and so we’re in the process of doing that.
And with both of those brands we’re also looking at ways to potentially extend the brands beyond just Nail Color to see it as an opportunity in different segments today in the color cosmetics market.
So it’s not simply by the brand and not to do when it does this by the brand and find ways to grow it aggressively.
And we’re doing that.
Okay fine.
And then just lastly on China can you just comment the slowdown that you’re seeing is just kind of the first start of the slowdown and is there – does it look like it was getting worse throughout quarter as the quarter went on? Well.
Everyone is right what’s going on in China for many months now and of course they’ve been putting their own slowdown in GDP.
As I said as they propose with that economic slowdown we’ve also seen a slowdown in our consumption.
so it’s impossible for us to forecast the future Chinese economy of course as the leadership change coming up we’ll have to see watch and is taken in the economy there.
but we’re focused on what we can do.
So the Chinese consumer is different.
We’re very focused on continuing to ensure we have the appropriate product portfolio.
we were very close with the retail partners there because obviously their experience in reduction for traffic so making sure that we are very effective in store and focusing on the execution of the marketing plans with those retail partners.
The key is it’s important to have a healthy and sustainable business in China.
China is the large market with lots of distribution opportunity but that's very different from pursuing a sustainable profitable business that is our aim in overtime.
Okay and can you comment about sell through in China was it down I assume selling is down and but was sell through down also in the third quarter.
As we said net sales were lower in the quarter in terms of sell through we’ve seen decelerating sell through trainings as the economy has suffered.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Jeff.
Thank you and at this time I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Ennis for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Irlanda and thank you all for joining our conference call this morning we look forward to speaking with you when we report our fourth quarter 2012 results early next year.
Thank you  That will conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all once again for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s fourth quarter and yearend 2012 earnings conference call.
At the request of Revlon today’s call is being recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions) Now for opening remarks and introductions I will turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Elise please go ahead.
Thanks very much Debbie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the year and fourth quarter ended December 31 2012.
If you’ve not already received the copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer; and Steven Berns Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the Company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the Company’s filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and our 2012 form 10-Q filed in 2012.
We expect to file our 2012 form 10-K later this month.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
As a reminder effective for the period beginning October 1 2012 we have consolidated maritime Canada into a single region as a result prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to this presentation.
For your convenience we’ve included the reclassified numbers for each of the quarters in both ’11 and ’12 at the end of our press release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
2012 is another year of strong performance for Revlon guided by our strategic goal of profitably growing our business.
We are focused on executing our business strategy which is to build our strong brands develop our organizational capability drive our company to act globally pursue growth opportunities and improve our financial performance.
Let me discuss some of our notable achievements in 2012 under each of these elements of our business strategy.
First building our strong brands.
From a topline perspective we delivered growth of almost 5% clearly reflecting the effectiveness of our strategy.
From a market place perspective we introduced new innovative products which together with effective brand communication and strong in-store execution drove positive performance of our Revlon brands in many of our key markets.
We had a number of notable product successes across color cosmetics and beauty tools that we will discuss later in this call.
Next element of our business strategy is to develop our organizational capability.
We continue to do this through retaining and promoting highly capable people internally and through attracting new talents.
The success of our strategy depends on our people.
We have a dedicated team of employees around the world who are focused on achieving our strategic objectives of profitably growing our business.
The third element of our business strategy is to drive our company to act globally.
This guides how we think plan and act across all our brands and markets.
We continue to leverage our brand positioning our portfolio of planning process and our brand communication plans to meet the needs of our consumers globally.
Additionally our operational results demonstrate the actions that we have taken to improve operating efficiency through a variety of initiatives including global supply chain management.
The fourth element of our business strategy is to pursue growth opportunities.
As I stated earlier we delivered net sales growth of almost 5% in 2012 and are very pleased with our Revlon brand performance around the world.
We also complimented our portfolio of brands by adding SinfulColors in 2011 and Pure Ice in 2012 both of which performed very well this year.
We will continue to focus on opportunities to grow our existing brands as well as to acquire brands that complement our core business.
The last element of our strategy is to improve our financial performance which we’ve accomplished through delivering topline growth expanding operating margins and generating free cash flow.
Over the last few years we have elevated our company’s performance.
We have grown to topline consistently since 2009.
We have delivered highly competitive margins and in 2012 we achieved our fifth consecutive year of positive free cash flow which we used in parts to fund acquisitions.
Our Revlon brand performed very well globally and we’ve a fantastic team of people around the world focused on executing our strategy.
It is a privilege to be leading this company as we go from strength to strength.
So with that let me hand over to Chris who will take you through our market place performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance by region and by brands excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies.
Total company net sales in 2012 were $1.4 billion an increase of 4.8% versus 2011.
This increase was primarily driven by high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk hair color and SinfulColors as well as the inclusion of Pure Ice.
These increases were partially offset by low net sales of fragrances under the beauty care products.
In the United States net sales increased $42.4 million or 5.6% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and simple colors as well as the inclusion of Pure Ice since its acquisition in July 2012.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Almay Color Cosmetics.
Net sales in the U.S.
region grew in 2012 excluding the results of Pure Ice.
I’ll speak more about the drivers of brand performance following my regional remarks.
In Asia-Pacific net sales increased $4.4 million or 1.9% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon Color Cosmetics in Japan and certain distributor territories.
Partially offset by low net sales of Revlon Color Cosmetics in China.
With respect to China as you are aware the rate of growth in the economy slowed in 2012 and we also slowed down in the rate of consumption.
We are closely monitoring the situation and we continue to ensure that we have the appropriate product portfolio for the consumer while working closely with our retail partners and focusing on the execution of our marketing plans.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales decreased to $8.9 million or 4.3%.
Lower net sales were adversely impacted by a number of factors.
Firstly an increased returned accrual of $1.6 million associated with the restructuring and related activities in France and Italy.
Secondly lower net sales of fragrances in the U.K.
and certain distributor territories.
Lastly lower net sales of certain beauty care products throughout the region.
These decreases were partially offset by higher net sales of Mitchum Anti-Perspirant Deodorants in the U.K.
and Revlon ColorSilk hair color in South Africa Italy and certain distributor territories.
In Latin America and Canada net sales increased $28 million or 15.4% this increase was primarily due to high net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color throughout the region.
Net sales in Venezuela and Argentina benefited from high selling prices reflecting market conditions and inflation which accounted for approximately one third of the $28 million net sales increase in the region.
Venezuela’s increase was also impacted by the absence of sales for a portion of the prior year as a result of a June 2011 fire that destroyed the company’s facility there.
Now moving on to our performance by brand.
Starting with Revlon color cosmetics certain company net sales increased as compared to the prior year 2012 benefitted from the positive performance of several successful Revlon franchises including PhotoReady ColorBurst and ColorStay as well as a number of new products introductions.
With respect to noticeable product performance in the market place in face we recently introduced a new franchise Nearly Naked a revolutionary light weight make-up line with buildable coverage and seamless blending to create a fresh even look.
Nearly Naked which includes foundation and pressed powder is early in its global roll out and so far has been launched in the U.S.
and Canada.
Also in face are PhotoReady Airbrush Mousse Makeup continues to perform well.
Building up on the successful PhotoReady franchise we are also pleased with recent introductions of both face and eye products.
In face we introduced PhotoReady BB Cream Skin Perfector a light weight multi benefit beauty balm that combines skin care makeup and sunscreen into one simple step.
In eye we introduced PhotoReady Primer Shadow and Sparkle a palette featuring a primer three highly pigmented shadows that can be used wet or dry and the sparkle top coat (inaudible) limitless eye looks in one convenient package.
In lips we recently expanded our ColorStay franchise with Ultimate Suede Lipstick which contains a velvety soft formula that gives the lips instant moisture and all day color and also notably in lip both ColorBurst Lip Butter and Just Bitten Kissable Balm Stain continue to be extremely well received by consumers in all our major markets.
In nail as stated during 2012 trend setting and innovation are driving our positive performance in all key markets.
We recently introduced Revlon Nail Art a collection of nail shades and art trends offered in a unique dual-ended package containing everything needed to achieve the latest in nail design at home.
Continuing in nail ColorStay longwear nail color which provides a one step gel like shine which is one of the leading new nail products in the U.S.
and Canada in 2012.
I’d like to note that in-line with Revlon’s leadership as the color authority we will off course be very active in forth coming spring fashion weeks in New York and London and also of note during 2012 we launched a Revlon Expression Experiment a social media campaign that debuted on our Facebook page.
I am delighted that for this pioneering activity Women’s Wear Daily recognized Revlon as the digital innovator of the year.
Moving on to the Almay brand net sales decreased year-over-year and this decrease was driven by performance in the U.S.
As you know Almay is a priority focus area for improvements as we are dissatisfied with the market place performance of this brand and are focused on the following.
Firstly we continue to refine our advertizing promotional plans seeking to improve their combined effectiveness overtime.
Changes include increased media support across a wider range of products as well as incremental promotional support.
Secondly we completed an assessment of our brand positioning and are in the process of making refinements in the form of graphics packaging and merchandising which will start to appear in store during 2013.
Thirdly we aim to continue to strengthen Almay’s brand affinity through innovative new products which both continue to build upon the strength of existing co-franchises as well as take advantage of new opportunities and finally as we progress throughout the year we will continue to monitor our performance and refine these actions in order to build the brand to the consumer over the long term.
Given the highly competitive category in which we compete it takes time for the impact of these changes to be reflected in the market place.
However not unlike other challenges we have faced in the past we are staying very focused on the drivers of category performance.
Now with regard to new product innovation we are building up on the intense eye color franchise with the addition of intense eye color bold nudes kit which helps consumers create the perfect neutral eye with a puff of expertly coordinated color.
We’re also building up on our Smart Shade Franchise by introducing to new products.
SmartShade Mousse Makeup which instantly adjusts the consumer skin term and SmartShade Power Blush the first powder blush for the franchise.
In addition we continue to feature Kate Hudson our Almay brand ambassador.
Recently Kate attended the Golden Globe Awards and received rave reviews on her beauty look which was created with Almay Color Cosmetics.
Kate will also be featured in our new advertising campaigns for SmartShade and Intense Eye Color franchises.
Moving on to women’s hair color.
Net sales of Revlon ColorSilk increase year over year.
We continue to be pleased with the market price performance of ColorSilk and continue to build upon the success with the recent introduction of Revlon Luxurious ColorSilk Butter Cream.
This new product is enriched with a revolutionary ammonia free triple butter complex for nourished hydrated and ultra conditioned hair.
In anti-perspirant deodorants net sales of Mitchum decreased slightly year over year and finally in Revlon beauty tools net sales increased year over year.
In 2012 our new products performed exceptionally well in the market places.
This year we continue to bring to exciting and innovative new products to the market including the Revlon Diamond collection featuring tweezers lash colors and files in bright colors with eye catching sparkle.
And our File N Peel 6-in-1 File which contains 6 layers that peel cleanly away each revealing a fresh filing surface.
Referring to our insightful beauty tools in invasions O magazine recently described our File N Peel as another simply brilliant concept.
So overall we are pleased with our portfolio of brands in particular our strong Revlon brands which are having tremendous success across a number of categories.
Now I’ll turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Starting with gross margin performance gross margin in 2012 was 64.5% versus 64.3% in 2011.
Gross profit in 2012 benefited from lower manufacturing costs as a result of supply chain cost reduction initiative and lower sales returns and allowances.
These items were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of product mix.
SG&amp;A was $710.2 million in 2012 as compared to $685.5 million in 2011 an increase of $24.7 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to the following items.
$8.9 million of costs to settle the previously disclosed share holder litigation $6.9 million of lower benefit from insurance proceeds in 2012 related to the Venezuela fire as compared to 2011.
And finally an increase in various other G&amp;A expenses.
Operating income for 2012 was $188.7 million compared to $203.3 million.
An adjusted EBITDA for 2012 was $254 million compared to $266 million in 2011.
Operating income and adjusted EBITDA in 2012 included $24.1 million of restructuring and related charges and the net charge of $8.9 million with respect to the estimated cost of settling previously disclosed share holder litigation.
Restructuring and related charges related to the actions announced on September 5 2012 are expected to total approximately $25 million of which $24.1 million was recorded in our P&amp;L for 2012.
The charge was recorded as follows $20.7 million was recorded as restructuring charges $1.6 million was recorded as a reduction to net sales $1.2 million was recorded as an increase in cost of goods sold and lastly $600 000 was recorded in selling general and administrative expenses.
Of the total expected charges of $25 million $24 million are cash charges of which $3.8 million was paid in 2012 and the remainder is expected to be paid in 2013.
These restructuring actions are expected to generate annualized cost reductions of approximately $10 million with 2013 expected to benefit by approximately $7.5 million as a result of the timing of the implementation of these restructuring actions.
Moving on to interest expense interest expense decreased $5.7 million to $85.6 million this year primarily due to the impact in 2012 of the May 2011 refinancing of the company’s term loan credit facility at lower interest rates.
The provision for income taxes was $43.7 million in 2012 compared to $36.8 million in 2011.
The provision for income taxes included non-cash benefits of $15.8 million in 2012 and $16.9 million in 2011 in each case primarily associated with reductions in the company’s deferred tax asset by evasion allowances.
These items had no impact on the company’s cash flow or liquidity.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds in 2012 was $18 million as compared to $20.5 million in 2011.
Net income for 2012 was $51.1 million or $0.98 per diluted share compared to net income by $53.4 million or $1.02 for diluted share for 2011.
Moving in to cash flows net cash provided by operating activities for 2012 was $104.1 million compared to $88 million and free cash flow was $84 million compared to $74.4 million.
Free cash flow in 2012 as compared to 2011 benefited from favorable changes in working capital and lower cash interest paid partially offset by the renewal and partial prepayment of certain multi-year insurance programs and higher capital expenditures.
Net cash used in investing activities in 2012 was $86.3 million which included the cash paid to acquire Pure Ice compared to $52.6 million in 2011 which included the cash paid to acquire SinfulColors.
Moving on to our fourth quarter of 2012 results there are a couple of high level items to note regarding net sales in the period.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations total net sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 increased $33.3 million or 9.3% primarily driven by higher net sales of Revlon Color Cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk hair color and SinfulColors as well as the inclusion of Pure Ice.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Almay Color Cosmetics.
In the U.S.
net sales increased $27.6 million or 14.4% primarily driven by higher net sales of Revlon Color Cosmetics Revlon Color Cosmetics in addition to Revlon ColorSilk hair color and SinfulColors and the inclusion of Pure Ice partially offset by lower net sales of Almay.
We are pleased with the 14.4% increase in our U.S.
net sales in the fourth quarter of 2012.
There are a couple of factors contributing to this increase.
First fourth quarter 2012 net sales benefited from the strong performance of our Revlon brands as well as the inclusion of Pure Ice.
And second in the fourth quarter of 2011 net sales were negatively impacted by higher returns and promotional allowances in the period.
As a reminder both returns and promotional allowances are accounted for as reductions in arriving at net sales.
Other details of our financial performance in the fourth quarter can be found in our press release issued this morning.
Moving on to liquidity our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of December 31 2012 was 237.6 million comprised of $108 million of available cash and $129.6 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Our revolver was undrawn at year end and we had $10.4 million of standby letters of credit issued under this facility.
By April of 2013 we expect to make an amortization payment under our term loan based on our 2012 results the payment will be approximately $19.5 million and you will see it on our balance sheet as part of the current portion of long term debt.
Also on January 29 2013 we commenced an offer to purchase for cash any and all of our CPC’s 9.75% senior secured notes due 2015 which is conditioned on our obtaining financing proceeds in an amount sufficient to effect the purchase of these notes.
Earlier this morning we also issued a press release announcing an offering of $400 000 of senior unsecured notes to repay Revlon Consumer Products Corporation’s currently outstanding issue of $330 million of 9.75% notes due to 2015.
Finally consistent with our historical practice I’m going to provide our expectations regarding certain 2013 cash flow information.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $25 million permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $50 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $20 million and lastly cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $20 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt to participants for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our first question today from Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Hi I’m wondering if you could talk about how the sell through versus selling was in the quarter particularly given all the new products and then how you’re seeing sell through versus selling in first part of the year?  Hi Carla this is Chris.
So as you know we don’t actually provide sell through data and as you also know sell through and selling may vary quarter to quarter.
But suffice to say as we went through the remarks you would have heard to say we’re very pleased with a number of our new product innovations.
We’re also very pleased with the strength to the Revlon brand so we think that in a very healthy position.
Okay great thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Good morning.
What was the impact there’s a 50% evaluation being in Venezuela?  As you know Connie it’s Steven.
As you know our business of Venezuela is a very small percentage of our raw global net sales of approximately 2% and second is certainly the valuation of a currency really has more to do with and nay particular that is the immediate impact on our business so to the extent that consumption continued a lot of that to valuation.
If it was accompanied by looser currency controls might be a better thing if they were tied across for currency controls that could be that tremendous.
But certainly it’s a small impact on our business so we evaluated as you would expect us to as we compete in the market place.
Okay and what’s the priority used to free cash now that you’re generating more and more of it?  Connie its Alan our strategy has been for the last few years to profitably grow the business and clearly a key element of that is to improve our financial performance.
And so as we’ve generated our fifth consecutive year of cash flow we have done a number of things we’ve acquired 2 brands we acquired SinfulColors and Pure Ice collectively for about $100 million.
We’ve also reduced debt over that time.
And so we will continue on that path.
Okay what sort of time frame do you expect it will take for Almay to strengthen again it just seems like there is so much competition in the areas where it’s positioned.
Well as I know so Connie it’s a very competitive market place as you know.
As I say we’re focused on all those drivers we know that are important in the category so the amortizing levels the media support the incremental promotions support and then the instill experience for this through packaging graphics or merchandising.
So we’re focused on all those plus new product innovation we’re not going to focus when the situation is going to improve but we are focused on profitable growth for this brand and building it with the consumer of  the time.
So we know those are the drivers that produce that and we’ll continue to focus on them overtime.
Okay that’s it from me.
Thank you.
Thanks Connie.
We’ll take our next question from Arthur Roulac with Three Court.
Hey good morning guys two questions.
First did you say you’re going to be retiring some of the senior sub term loan this year later this year as well or is that callable in October 14 normally? So just to be clear we made no announcement in regard to the senior subordinated loan there’s a $48.6 million subordinated loan payable in October of 2013 and a $58.4 million loan payable in October of 2014 so under the senior subordinated term loans that we made no announcement this morning with regard to any prepayment.
Okay got it.
Is the senior subordinated term loan pre-payable in fact? Under certain conditions the portion of the loan that matures in 2014 can be repaid subsequent to October 2013.
Okay got it.
All of those terms Arthur are included in our public filing which is in our 2011 form 10-K.
I will look there thank you.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Alan Ennis for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Debbie and thank you all for joining our call this morning.
As we embark upon our new year I’d like to take this opportunity to acknowledge how far we have come as a company since our founding 80 years ago in 1932.
Our vision of glamour excitement and innovations has guided us through the years and I’m excited about the future for our company.
Our focus in 2013 will be to build upon the solid foundation we’ve established and continue to profitably grow our business.
I’d like to express my sincere appreciation to all of our employees around the world for our many accomplishments in 2012.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report our fourth quarter 2013 results.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin Ms.
Garofalo.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the first quarter ended March 31 2013.
If you’ve not already received the copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer Steven Berns Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements which are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Information on factors that could affect the company’s results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in the company’s filings with the SEC including our 2012 Form 10-K and our 2013 first quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes of our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measure in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we have discussed for some time our strategic goal is to profitably grow our business.
We accomplished this by building our strong brands developing our organizational capability driving our company to act globally pursuing growth opportunities and improving our financial performance.
In the first quarter of 2013 we grew our net sales by 2.1% primarily driven by Revlon color cosmetics and our Pure Ice and SinfulColors brands.
With respect to our acquisitions SinfulColors performed very well during the quarter and we are on-track with the integration of a more recently acquired Pure Ice brand which also performed well this quarter.
From a regional perspective net sales increased in the quarter in the US and Latin America and Canada regions while we saw some softness in Asia Pacific and EMEA.
With regard to our brands we believe the success in the marketplace is driven by delivering innovative high quality new products supported by effective brand communication and superb in-store execution.
Our continued emphasis and focus on this approach is of the utmost importance to our objectives of driving profitable growth.
We have recently introduced a number of successful new products which Chris will touch upon later in the call and we increased marketplace support behind our brands during the quarter.
Also in the first quarter we improved our capital structure by refinancing our senior notes and amending our term loan meaningfully reducing interest rates on both facilities and significantly extending the maturity of our senior notes to 2021.
Also of note Moody’s upgraded our corporate credit rating.
We remain focused on executing our business strategies to deliver topline growth and highly competitive margins overtime.
So with that I will hand the call over the Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance by region and by brand excluding the impacts of changes in foreign currencies.
Total company net sales in the first quarter of 2013 were $331.9 million an increase of $7.1 million or 2.1% versus the first quarter of last year.
This increase was primarily driven by high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and SinfulColors plus the inclusion of Pure Ice partially offset by lower net sales of Almay and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
In the United States net sales increased $7.4 million or 4% primarily driven by high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and SinfulColors plus the inclusion of Pure Ice partially offset by lower net sales of Almay and Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
Net sales in the US region grew in the first quarter of 2013 excluding the results of Pure Ice.
In Asia Pacific net sales decreased $1.1 million or 2% primarily due to lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in China partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Japan and the introduction of SinfulColors in Australia.
With respect to China consistent with the second half of 2012 the rate of growth in the economy slowed in the first quarter of 2013 and we also saw slowdown in the rate of consumption.
Inline with that and while also proactively reducing inventory with our distributors our net sales in China were low in the quarter.
We continue to manage this business closely working with our retail partners and focusing on the execution of our marketing plans.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales decrease $1.9 million also by 1% primarily due to lower net sales of both Revlon color cosmetics and other beauty care products in France.
As we have previously discussed in France we are in the process of completing our restructuring and exiting our manufacturing facility.
In the UK we continue to be very pleased with the strong performance of the Revlon brand proven marketplace perspective.
In Latin America and Canada net sales increased $2.7 million or 6.1% primarily due to high net sales of Revlon color cosmetics throughout the region and higher net sales of other beauty care products in Argentina.
Venezuela was not a driver of the net sales increase year-over-year as higher selling prices were largely offset by lower sales volumes.
With respect to Venezuela as you know it represents approximately 2% of our total company net sales.
The country is going through a period of uncertainty as well as strict currency controls where our access to US dollars has been virtually eliminated since February.
Our current focus is to manage the business such as Revlon Venezuela is only taking delivery of imported products for which you can pay in US dollars.
We are continuing to monitor the local currency market developments closely.
Now moving on to our performance by brand; starting with Revlon color cosmetics net sales increased as compared to the prior year.
With respect to notable product performance in the marketplace in the face and eye segments we have recently introduced new products building upon our PhotoReady franchise.
In face our PhotoReady BB Cream was recognized in Oprah Magazine’s Spring Awards for makeup as one of the fresh new formulas for flawless skin; when launched this BB Cream is performing well in the marketplace.
In eye we introduced PhotoReady Primer Shadow and Sparkle a palette featuring a primer for highly pigmented shadows that can be used wet or dry and the Sparkle top coats which allows for limitless eye looks in one convenient package.
To-date when launched this product is performing well in the marketplace.
Moving on to the lip category we continue to be pleased with our ongoing success across several franchises.
For example we recently expanded our ColorStay franchise with Ultimate Suede Lipstick which contains a velvety soft formula that truly achieves the ultimate combination in long way by giving lips instant moisture as well as all day color.
The consumer obviously agrees with our assessment as ColorStay Ultimate Suede Lipstick has been exceptionally well received in the marketplace.
In addition to new product introductions in lip our core Super Lustrous franchise which has been a main stay of Revlon continues to be a highly desirable product amongst our consumers.
Recently Revlon Super Lustrous lipstick was recognized in Teen Vogue’s Readers Choice Awards as The Best Lipstick.
We are proud of this franchise’s longevity and the ability to attract new generation of consumers.
We are also looking forward to the re-launch of Super Lustrous lip gloss and new Super Lustrous lipstick shades later this year.
Finally in nail most recent new product is Revlon Nail Art a collection of nail shades and art trends offered in a unique dual-ended package containing everything needed to achieve the latest nail designs at home.
When launched Revlon Nail Art is performing very well in the marketplace.
Turning now to Almay net sales decreased year-over-year primarily due to its performance in the US.
Almay remains a priority focus area for improvements as we continue to be dissatisfied with the marketplace performance of the brand.
As you know from prior calls we continue to work on a number of actions to improve Almay’s performance including modifying our brand support activity with increased advertising and promotional support and refining our brand positioning which includes improving our instill presentation through graphics packaging and merchandising all of which are in progress.
The critical component of our brand success is the introduction of successful innovative new products.
Next month we are launching a number of new Almay products including an exciting initial launch by the Almay brand into the lip category.
With Almay coloring care liquid lip balm which is a new type of lip balm in a liquid form that provides hydration as well as color in the range of 10 [entering] shades.
Also new is our CC cream which provides skincare benefits as well as color correction along with the instantly flawless coverage.
Almay will be one of the first CC creams introduced in to the mass market.
This launch will be under our core Almay Smart Shade franchise.
And lastly we are extending our highly successful eye makeup removal business by bringing new benefits which we believe further differentiates our products offering in the marketplace.
The entire range will also benefit from a fresher looking feel as we introduce new packaging.
We continue to monitor and refine our actions in order to profitably grow the Almay brand over long term.
Moving on to women’s hair color; net sales of Revlon ColorSilk declined as compared to the same period last year; however ColorSilk continues to perform well despite softer demand in the US category overall.
To date we are pleased with the recent introduction of our new Revlon Luxurious ColorSilk Butter Cream an extension of our Revlon ColorSilk product line.
In Revlon beauty tools net sales increased year-over-year.
In 2012 our new products performed exceptionally well and we are off to a similar start in 2013 with our new product performance as we continue to bring exciting and innovative new products to the markets.
Consistent with our comments in the past the beauty tools category remained soft.
However we continue to maintain a strong leadership position in the US and Canada.
And finally since acquiring SinfulColors two years ago we have gained new distribution not only in the US but also in a number of other key international markets such as Canada South Africa Australia and the UK.
We are very pleased with the net sales growth of this brand.
Now I will turn it over to Steven to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
Good morning everyone.
Starting with gross margin performance gross margin in the first quarter of 2013 was essentially flat year-over-year at 64.8% versus 65% in the first quarter of 2012.
The first quarter of 2013 was impacted by a few items.
First unabsorbed fixed costs related to the previously announced exit of our manufacturing facility in France which had an unfavorable impact of two-tenths of a percent or $800 000; and second the impact of foreign currency fluctuations which had an unfavorable impact of one-tenth of a percent or $4.3 million.
These unfavorable impacts on gross margin were largely offset by product mix which had a favorable impact on gross margin of two-tenth of a percent or $700 000.
SG&amp;A was a $167.5 million in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to $170.7 million in the same period last year.
The $3.2 million decrease is primarily attributable to the following items.
In the first quarter of 2013 we benefited from an $8.3 million gain on insurance proceeds from the settlement of our inventory claim due to the 2011 fire in Venezuela.
This compares to the first quarter of 2012 which benefited from $1.1 million of income from insurance proceeds for business interruption losses related to the Venezuela fire.
SG&amp;A in the first quarter of 2013 also benefited from $2.2 million of favorable changes in foreign currency fluctuations.
These benefits were partially offset by $2.9 million of higher advertising and promotional expenses and $1.6 million of higher general and administrative expenses primarily due to higher incentive compensation and higher insurance expenses.
SG&amp;A for the first quarter of 2013 included $1.1 million of higher incentive compensation expense related to a modification to the structure of the company’s long-term incentive plan to better align the plan with the company’s long-term performance.
While the new structure does not change the amount of the potential annual incentive award the transition is expected to result in higher expense in 2013 and 2014 as compared to 2012.
In 2013 this incremental expense is expected to be approximately $5 million and in 2014 the incremental expense is expected to be approximately $3 million.
The company expects no additional expense related to the transition to the new structure after 2014.
Operating income in the first quarter of 2013 was $47.3 million compared to $44.3 million in the same period last year and adjusted EBITDA was $64.3 million compared to $60 million in the same period last year.
As there were some meaningful currency moves in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012 let me summarize the impact of these for you.
The total unfavourable impact on operating income in the first quarter of 2013 was $2.1 million which included net sales which were negatively impacted by $5.9 million; gross profit which was negatively impacted by $4.3 million; and finally SG&amp;A which was positively impacted by $2.2 million.
Moving on to interest expense interest expense including dividends on preferred stock decreased $1.2 million to $20.4 million in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower interest rates as a result of our senior notes referencing and bank term loan amendment.
Related to the company’s first quarter 2013 refinancing activity we recognized an aggregate loss on the early extinguishment of debt of $27.9 million.
As Alan indicated earlier these transactions improved our capital structure by meaningfully reducing interest rates and extending the maturity of our senior notes to 2021.
Moving on to taxes the provision for income tax was $1.2 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $11 million in same period last year.
The decrease in the provision for income taxes was primarily attributable to the $27.9 million loss on early extinguishment of debt.
Cash paid for income taxes in the first quarter was $2.7 million compared to payments of $3.4 million last year.
Net loss in the first quarter of 2013 was $6.9 million or $0.13 per diluted share compared to net income of $8.5 million or $0.16 per diluted share in the same period of last year.
Moving onto cash flows; net cash used in operating activities in the first quarter of 2013 improve by $3.5 million to a use of $16.9 million.
The first quarter of 2013 as compared to 2012 benefited from lower premium payments related to certain of the company’s multi year insurance programs lower pension contributions and other favorable changes in working capital.
These improvements were partially offset by accelerated payments of interest expense due to our refinancing activities higher incentive compensation payments and restructuring payments related to our September 2012 restructuring plan.
As a general reminder; with respect to operating cash flow the timing of cash flows from working capital can very from quarter-to-quarter based on the number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as on March 31 2013 was $242.2 million comprised of a $112.5 million and available cash and $129.7 million available under our revolving credit facilities.
Our revolver was undrawn at the end of the quarter and we had $10.3 million of standby letters of credit issued under this facility.
Now moving on to the balance of 2013 consistent with our historical practice I'm going to provide certain 2013 cash flow information none of which has changed from the prior guidance we gave on our last earnings call.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $25 million.
Permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $50 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $20 million.
And lastly cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $20 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
When we look at the top line sales in the US how much was Pure Ice contributing to that 4% gain? So we don't talk about our performance specifically by brand as you know at the sales line.
I can tell you that the US did grow the top line excluding Pure Ice.
And when we kind of look at the repositioning and the new products coming from Almay this is certainly something that's been you’ve been worked on for couple of quarters now.
When do we feel kind of we will get traction there? Well Karru obviously we are not going to forecast when is.
What I can tell you is we are extremely focused on making the right moves to drive profitable sales growth over time.
So those areas of focus on things that we know build cosmetic brands by getting the right mix and level of advertising promotion and we monitor that very closely and make adjustments in terms of our launches in the marketplace.
The instill experience and an experience the consumer has with the products at home which is why we are making all the changes to packaging and instill graphics.
And then new products as I said the new products we have coming are important as our re-entering to the lips segment with a new form of lip balm.
There is one of the first CC creams and mass that is coming to the US marketplace and then we are building on upon the successful eye makeup remover.
So we are making all these changes in a very (inaudible) way and the brand has been successful over time in the marketplace.
We've had great products like Smoky-i Intense i Smart Shade.
So we are focused on replication of that.
And just lastly a number of retailers you are targeting and others have talked about the difficult first quarter whether it’d be weather related the payroll tax increase delayed tax returns I mean how much do you feel that you are fighting somewhat of a headwind here in the first quarter that will abate as we go forward? Well I'm sure they are talking about their businesses overall.
Of course you know we're really focused on the cosmetics category which grew at a reasonable rate in the first quarter and we continue to compete very strongly in that category.
We will take our next question from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Okay on the change to your incentive plan can you talk about how the dynamics work here? So there's incremental expense of $5 million this year and $3 million next year but no change to the potential award.
So exactly what's going on what’s the plan? So Connie our prior long-term incentive plan was based on a single year’s performance with the payout over three years.
The new structure is based on cumulative results of three years of performance for which a payout is then made in a single payment at the end of the third year.
So as we transition from the prior plan which once again was a single year’s performance paid out over three years that’s the prior plan to the new plan the cumulative result payable after three years the result is higher expense as we're still expensing the final two years of the prior plan as well as the expense related to the new plan.
So as we stated the new structure doesn’t provide additional potential annual incentive awards to employees.
However it just has this expense as it relates to the old plan while still expensing the new plan.
And there is no impact on the cash flow to the company during this period.
It's consistent with the expected cash flows that we had in 2012 related to this plans.
Okay.
And then on the insurance related matter they’ve been really kind of rolling ever since the fire in Venezuela.
So the gain that you booked in the quarter is that a taxable event or does the whole thing dropped the earnings? At this point in time the expectation is that $8.3 million that we reflected in the P&amp;L drops straight to earnings.
Okay.
And should we consider that to be because in the past you have had payments that protected your profit and sort of may give hold based on what you would have earned in Venezuela have there not been in fire.
Is this payment the end of the insurance is it the end of the insurance settlements? So that there were two go ahead.
If you could answer that that would be helpful.
Okay.
So there are two claims effectively when claiming or it's not necessarily an insurance selecting or so.
Two claims one is we got an inventory loss and we also had a property and business interruption loss.
So the property in business interruption is a single if you would claim and the other claim is the inventory claim.
In the first quarter of 2013 the settlement that was reached would be insurance carry was just around the inventory claim.
And so that’s what the $8.3 million recognition relates to.
In the period prior where we had recognized business interruption losses that was during the first approximately 15 months subsequent to the fire so that ended at the end of the third quarter of 2012.
And so we get experience business interruption losses.
As we show in our 10-Q we have $4 million which we have received which is deferred on our balance sheet until such time as there is a final settlement and resolution of the property and business interruption claim.
We don't know the timing of that and final amounts; it just is a pending insurance claim.
Okay.
So what's business like in Venezuela do you have a building are you importing I mean a lot of times gone by so? Yes.
So we rented offices there Connie.
We are importing products from outside the country but as I said we are only importing product for which Revlon Venezuela can pay for in U.S.
dollars and that's what they rely upon the currency markets in order to be able to import business.
Clearly as you know in the country there is lot of shortage on shelves of products so the issue is more about getting products and than been able to selling once.
Now of course you got to remember also in the context of total Revlon it’s only 2% of net sales.
Okay.
And if I could ask one final question.
In China how much inventory do you believe is out with distributors and is there a lot to work down or do you think you are fairly balanced? Yeah our inventory is are fairly close now to what we understand to be complex stage so as I say we took out inventory during the first quarter so we are pretty close to where we think we have to be at this stage.
We will take our next question from Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo.
Mr.
Grant your line is open; please check your mute button.
Sorry about that.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just for the high level it seems like you guys ended the year with lot of momentum in your business and Q1 was a relatively easy comp up against last year so I was just trying to really figure out like how the business perform relative to our expectations and did you see any sort of slow down in market share? Grant a couple of things yes certainly we ended 2012 with a lot of momentum.
And as you know well we don't provide guidance.
Our strategic goal is to drive profitable growth over time and do so at highly competitive margins and we continue on that path.
That revolves around beginning the right products to the marketplace effectively communicating with the consumers making sure that we are spending appropriately and as I mentioned in the first quarter we did increase our marketplace support behind the brands in the first quarter and then executing very effectively with retailers.
We are also looking at growth opportunities.
We are looking at expanding our existing portfolio of brands into new geographies and new territories organically growing and growing through acquisitions.
We've done two very nice acquisitions over the last couple of years and so what I think Q1 did have some challenges.
We are very aware what those challenges are the drivers of those challenges and very focused on addressing them so I think the momentum will continue.
And were any of those challenges related to market share? You know we have we don't report market shares you know we had some challenges in certain retailers around the world.
We had successes in retailers around the world.
So it’s very retailer specific or market specific nothing worth calling us.
Okay so overall that wasn’t really one of the drivers for the decline in profitability in Q1.
Not particularly.
You talked about China being a challenge have you seen any sort of recovery in the spending in China.
Well as I said our consumption was down.
So the economy there remains difficult.
There's reduced footfall in the department stores.
So we have experienced it ourselves.
We are hopeful that we will come but we are really focused on that on executing our plans in still.
So given the fact that we've experienced less consumers in the stores we need to focus on making sure that when they are in the store and at our counter we maximize our effectiveness with them which is why we are focused.
Grant its Alan just to make a follow-up on one of your points about the decline in profitability you know what Steven mentioned earlier specifically you know we had some fairly significant headwinds from currency in the quarter.
If you look at our top line it was impacted almost $6 million from currency which had a greater than $2 million impact on profitability in the quarter primarily because of our businesses in South Africa and Japan and the strength of the US dollar relative to the two of those and also we had a higher compensation expenses as Steven mentioned.
So if you look at those two items that's kind of a unique you know profitability was essentially flat year-over-year in the quarter.
We will take our next question from Jeff (inaudible) with Stone Harbor Investment.
Just curious about the oil and lower cost of that commodity just curious if that could help your cost of goods sold throughout the balance of this year or can you comment about how much you are locked in with your cost for this year.
Jeff its Steven Berns.
As we discussed in the past oil is not a big driver of cost of our input cost you know obviously with all manufacturers and distributors it relates to more about the cost of transportation but its not a big driver for us and our cost of inputs.
Okay.
Do you have any general comment about how your cost outlook is for this year.
When we look at our input costs you know clearly labor is a big piece of our costs and from a material standpoint we don't see anything significant versus what our expectations were.
And as we always have said we are managing both from the standpoint of looking for efficiencies within our production capabilities; so we are not expecting costs to initially go up but we plan for savings in our cost of goods line as we go through each of the periods to as technology enables us and production capabilities enables us to take out cost.
Okay.
And then you have just given this bank debt or just the total debt refinance you've gone to so far this year that’s going to give you more free cash flow and you paid acquisitions in 2011 and 2012.
So anything you could say about this free cash flow or acquisition sort of like the top of the list as far as the use of free cash flow? Yes so just as it relates to the use of cash flow specifically we've been exquisite over the last couple of years.
We've done two as I said very nice acquisitions with SinfulColors and Pure Ice.
We're investing appropriately in the business where we need to today and so certainly continuing to grow both through organic opportunities and through acquisition is a key priority for us.
We will take a follow-up question from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Just two things.
On Almay what gives you confidence that an Almay lip offering will be successful this time? You know I forget what it was called hair good color or something like that.
You know Almay is just not known for lips and there are other lip balms out there so what's the special thought on Almay lips? Okay so yes you are right.
Almay has been in lip before and we've not been particularly successful and now we're re-entering.
So here is how we're re-entering.
First of all lip is an increasingly hot category and we're seeing future trends heading in that direction and it's becoming a category a little bit like [naive] people to try a lot more things.
Lip balm is that kind of product.
Lip balm is a much more impulse product than say a standard lipstick that you can have so we think that we are entering in the place where there is more opportunity for impulse.
Second thing is liquid lip balm is a new form normally a balm is a solid in a stick but this is a liquid form which also provides not just color but hydration.
So that’s a unique offering in the marketplace.
So between the trends towards impulse on lip what we think is a unique form what we then have to do is make sure that we execute it and still so that we gain those impulse sales.
So that's what we’re basing our perspective on time will tell of course but that’s why we think it's a good launch to make.
And when does this ship? It’s shipping next month.
Okay.
And advertising I imagine will be supportive of this right to get it to rise above the other noise?  Yeah we will be advertising shortly after.
Obviously as you know that we start with displays in store and then it moves to the world when the research take place in the middle of the year and that's when the more (inaudible) kicks off late but obviously we are looking to see what sales off take is from the initial displays.
Okay.
That's interesting.
And then just I know you don't comment on market shares but they are available and I just wanted to confirm that what we look at matches what you are seeing which is Revlon gaining share in lip and face makeup and nail this is just U.S.
over the last 12 weeks.
And having lost share in eye does that match what you see? We are very pleased with all those contribution mentioned.
Eye we do continue to focus on as you know because you know our business well.
We have a relatively small mascara business.
We are just about to some new mascaras there and we are very focused on driving that.
Although we do have a strong eye shadow business because as you know Revlon is all about color.
So we are pleased with the pace of our business in general.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Ennis for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Cynthia and thank you for joining our conference call.
Before we end the call I would like to take this opportunity to remind you about the Annual Revlon Run/Walk For Women.
Our New York City Run/Walk is on Saturday May 4th and will be hosted by our brand ambassadors Emma Stone and Olivia Wilde.
Our Los Angeles Run/Walk is on Saturday May 11th and will be hosted by our brand ambassador Halle Berry.
We are very proud of our longstanding film topic support for women’s health initiatives and to fight against women’s cancers.
Over the years we have helped to raise millions of dollars for research education and efficacy.
If you would like to donate to this cause or register to participate in either of the Run/Walk events please visit revlonrunwalk.org.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report our second quarter 2013 results.
Thank you and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Revlon’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions) And now your host for today’s call is Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Ms.
Garofalo please go ahead now.
Thank you Rufus.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the second quarter ended June 30 2013.
If you have not already received the copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Alan Ennis Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer and Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning may include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2012 Form 10-K and our 2013 second quarter Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measure in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Alan.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
As we have discussed for sometime our strategic goal is to profitably grow our business.
We accomplished this by building our strong brands developing our organizational capability driving our company to act globally pursuing growth opportunities and improving our financial performance.
Our net sales in the second quarter of 2013 were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
We benefitted from the inclusion of our 2012 Pure Ice acquisition which was offset by continued softness in our Almay brand and a negative impact of business conditions in Venezuela.
With respect to our recent acquisitions SinfulColors performed very well during the quarter and we are on track with the integration of our Pure Ice brand.
From a market size perspective we continued to support our brands at appropriate levels and placed emphasis on innovation effective brand communication and strong in-store execution.
So far this year we’ve introduced a number of successful innovative high quality new products.
From a financial perspective we delivered competitive operating income margins generated positive free cash flow and our financial profile remains strong.
As always we remain focused on our strategic goal of driving profitable growth.
Before I hand the call over to Chris I’d like to briefly cover two significant changes with respect to our leadership team which we announced this morning.
Firstly Bob Kretzman who serves as our Chief Administrative Officer has decided to retire at the end of September following a successful 25-year career at Revlon.
Bob has been elected to join Revlon’s Board of Directors effective October 1 2013 and I look forward to working with him as a member of our Board.
Secondly I’m delighted that Larry Alletto will join Revlon as the Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and will also assume the role of Chief Administrative Officer upon Bob Kretzman’s retirements.
Larry will join us.
He completes his obligations with his current employer and comes to us following a 26-year career in the financial services industry.
Most recently Larry was Managing Director and Global Head of Financial Sponsors Group at JP Morgan Chase &amp; Company where he spent the last 20 years.
Larry is the seasoned business executive who brings a strong intellect a high degree of financial acumen and strategic ability as well as strong leadership.
I look forward to Larry joining our team.
So with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
Today I will review our net sales performance by region and by brand excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies.
Total company net sales in the second quarter of 2013 were approximately $350 million essentially unchanged year-over-year.
Lower net sales in Venezuela and lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics were offset by higher net sales of SinfulColors plus the inclusion of Pure Ice.
The decrease in net sales of Almay color cosmetics was primarily driven by the reallocation of brand support in the U.S.
from advertising to promotional allowances which are a deduction in arriving at net sales.
In the United States net sales were essentially unchanged year-over-year higher net sales of SinfulColors plus the inclusion of Pure Ice were offset by lower net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics.
As I just mentioned the decrease in Almay net sales was primarily driven by the reallocation of brand support.
In Asia Pacific net sales were essentially flat year-over-year with higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Japan SinfulColors in Australia Revlon ColorSilk hair color in certain distributor territories which were all offset by Revlon color cosmetics in China and certain distributor territories as well as low net sales of other beauty care products in Hong Kong.
Moving on to Europe Middle East and Africa net sales increased $1.6 million or 3.6%.
This increase was primarily due to higher net sales of fragrances and SinfulColors in both the U.K.
and Italy also offset by lower net sales of other beauty care products in France.
As we have previously discussed in France we are in the process of completing our restructure and in July we sold our manufacturing facility there.
In the U.K.
we’re continuing to be very pleased with the strong performance of the Revlon brand from a marketplace perspective as well as the successful introduction of SinfulColors.
In Latin America and Canada net sales decreased $2.7 million or 5.1%.
This decline in net sales was driven by $6.3 million of lower net sales in Venezuela due to business conditions included in Venezuela’s currency restrictions.
Excluding Venezuela net sales in the region increased primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Argentina Mexico and certain distributor territories plus high net sales of Revlon ColorSilk hair color across the region and the introduction of Pure Ice in Canada.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics in Canada.
With respect to Venezuela as you know it has historically represented approximately 2% of our total company net sales.
And in the second quarter of 2013 it represented approximately 1% of our total company net sales.
As we mentioned last quarter the country is going through a period of uncertainty as well as strict currency controls where our access to U.S.
dollars to purchase inventory has been virtually eliminated since February of this year.
We did obtain approval from the local government for limited access to U.S.
dollars for the import of only certain approved products.
However this has not impacted our results or access to U.S.
dollars year-to-date through June.
Our continued focus is to manage the business such as Revlon Venezuela is only taking delivery of the imported products for which you can pay in U.S.
dollars.
We are continuing to monitor the local currency market developments closely.
Now moving on to our performance by brand starting with Revlon color cosmetics net sales decreased modestly as compared to the prior year.
With respect to new product performance in face our PhotoReady BB Cream continued to perform well in the marketplace.
However our recently lowest Nearly Naked franchise I think canceled some challenges due to the spreads and growth of the BB Cream segments overall.
In eye we extended and built upon our successful Grow Luscious franchise.
We are pleased with the recent introduction of Lash Potion mascara in the U.S.
which contains strengthened proteins to drain slashes for volume.
Moving on to lip earlier in the year we extended our longstanding ColorStay franchise with Ultimate Suede Lipstick which continues to be exceptionally well received in the marketplace and is capitalizing on the growing lip trend.
Continuum in lip under our Super Lustrous color franchise which has been a mainstay of Revlon we are pleased with the recent introduction of Super Lustrous Shine lipstick which contains LiquiSilk an exclusive lightweight formula with mega moisturizers that seal in color and softness and the reintroduction of Super Lustrous lip gloss a silky gloss that boosts hydration and moisture with plumped colorful glamorous shine.
This reintroduction featuring new packaging and an updated shade range is consistent with our approach of not just expanding our product range with new franchises but also strengthening our existing franchises.
In nail Revlon Nail Art continues to perform well in the marketplace and we’re also pleased with the recent introduction of Revlon Brilliant Strength nail enamel in the U.S.
This collection which was previously launched around the world consists of 24 on-trend shades that contain a strengthening formula with a built-in protective base and a top coat.
Additionally in support of the strength of our Revlon brand in South Africa we recently signed this Ms.
Bonang Matheba as Revlon brand ambassador.
Bonang is a vivacious TV and radio personality fashion icon business model and philanthropist as well as being Glamour magazine’s 24 Woman of the Year in South Africa.
We believe she will help us continue building meaningful connections with our core South African consumer.
Turning now to Almay net sales decreased year-over-year primarily due to its performance in the U.S.
As I’ve mentioned already net sales of Almay color cosmetics were unfavorably impacted primarily by the reallocation of brand supports from advertising to promotional allowances which are a deduction in arriving at net sales.
During the quarter we launched our next generation of new products including Almay’s reentry into the lip category with Almay Color &amp; Care Liquid Lip Balm which is a new type of lip balm in a liquid form that provides hydration as well as color in a range of ten on-trend shades.
This product was recently launched in the U.S.
and we are pleased with this marketplace performance so far.
Also new is our CC cream which provides skin care benefits as well as color correction Almay i-Color Almay Smart Shade franchise.
Almay was one of the first CC creams introduced into the mass market and we are pleased with the early indications of marketplace performance in the U.S.
And lastly we extended our highly successful Eye Makeup Remover business by bringing new benefits which we believe further differentiates our products offering.
The entire range also featured new packaging with a fresher look and feel.
While the early results from these new launches are positive we remained satisfied overall with our major marketplace performance and we continue to focus on ensuring the longer-term success of this brand.
Moving on to women’s hair color net sales of Revlon ColorSilk were essentially unchanged year-over-year.
However ColorSilk continues to perform well despite softer demand in the U.S.
category overall.
In Revlon beauty tools net sales increased year-over-year consistent with our comments in the past the beauty tools category remains soft.
However we continue to maintain our strong leadership position in the U.S.
and Canada.
In 2013 we have new products that are performing very well in the marketplace including our designer Diamond collection.
And finally since acquiring SinfulColors two years ago we have gained new distribution in the U.S.
while we’re very pleased with our marketplace performance.
We have also successfully launched this brand in a number of our key international markets.
Now I’ll turn it over to Alan to walk you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
Starting with gross margin performance gross margin was 64.4% compared to 65.2% last year a decrease of 0.8% or $7.4 million.
The second quarter of 2013 was impacted by a few items.
First higher sales returns and markdowns which had an unfavorable impact of 0.6% or $6.2 million second higher promotional allowances which reduced gross profit by 0.3% or $3.7 million and third the impact of foreign currency fluctuations which reduced gross profit by 0.3% or $5.1 million.
These unfavorable impacts in gross margin were partially offset by higher volume which increased gross profit by $6.4 million and have no impact on margin and favorable product mix which increased gross profit by 0.4% or $1.5 million.
SG&amp;A was $163.1 million in the second quarter of 2013 as compared to $189.9 million last year.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations of $2.7 million SG&amp;A expenses decreased by $24.1 million.
This decrease was primarily attributable to the following items.
First in the second quarter of 2013 we benefited from an $18.1 million gain on insurance proceeds from the final settlements of the business interruption and property claim related to the 2011 fire which destroyed our facility in Venezuela.
This gain was partially offset by a $4.5 million charge for estimated clean-up costs related to that facility.
Second we had a $7.3 million of lower advertising expenses primarily due to the reallocation of brand supports from advertising which is included in SG&amp;A to promotional allowances which are a deduction in arriving at net sales.
And third general and administrative expenses were lower primarily due to the impact of the $6.7 million litigation loss contingency recognized in the second quarter of 2012 that did not recur this quarter.
SG&amp;A for the second quarter of 2013 also included $1.2 million of higher incentive compensation expense related to a modification of our structure of our long-term incentive plan to better align that plan with our long-term performance.
While the new structure does not change the amount of the annual potential incentive award the transition is expected to result in higher expenses of $5 million in 2013 and $3 million in 2014 as compared to 2012.
Moving on to restructuring during the second quarter of 2013 we recorded a $3.3 million of additional restructuring and related charges primarily for severance and other termination benefits associated with our September 2012 program.
With regard to this program we expect restructuring and related charges to total approximately $26 million.
Through June 2013 we recorded approximately $28 million of expense and we expect to record a net benefit of $2 million in the remainder of the year primarily as a result of the sale of our France manufacturing facility in July.
We expect to pay cash of approximately $24 million $17 million of which has been paid to-date.
Overall the 2012 restructuring plan is still expected to achieve approximately $10 million of annualized cost savings $7 million of which is expected to benefit 2013 and the majority of the 2013 savings will benefit the second half of 2013.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2013 was $59.1 million compared to $48.2 million in the same period last year and adjusted EBITDA was $76.1 million compared to $58.7 million in the same period a year ago.
There is a meaningful currency move in the second quarter of 2013 compared to the second quarter of 2012.
So let me summarize the impact of these for you.
The total unfavorable FX impact of operating income was $2.5 million which included net sales which were negatively impacted by $6.4 million gross profit which was negatively impacted $5.1 million and finally SG&amp;A which was positively impacted by $2.7 million.
Interest expense which includes dividends on preferred stock decreased by $3.8 million to $17.4 million primarily due to lower interest rates as a result of a refinancings in February of 2013.
Moving on to taxes the provision for income taxes was $17 million compared to $9.1 million in the same period last year.
This increase was primarily attributable to the following items.
First the second quarter of 2012 benefited from the favorable resolution of certain tax matters in a foreign jurisdiction which did not recur in the second quarter of 2013.
And second we had higher pre-tax income this quarter compared to last year.
These unfavorable items were partially offset by certain favorable discrete items that benefited the second quarter of 2013.
Cash paid for income taxes in the second quarter of 2013 was $5.3 million compared to $7.5 million in the same period last year.
Net income in the second quarter of 2013 was $24.7 million or $0.47 per diluted share compared to net income of $11.1 million or $0.21 per diluted share in the same period last year.
Moving onto cash flows Net cash provided by operating activities in the second quarter was $28.2 million compared to the use of $1.3 million in the same period last year.
Free cash flow in the second quarter was positive $21.6 million compared to negative $6.6 million in the same period a year ago.
The following items impacted cash flow this quarter all of which can be derived from our reported cash flow statements and 10-Qs.
Lower interest payments of $23 million is primarily due to the companies senior notes refinancing in the first quarter of 2013 lower pension contributions of $8.3 million and lower permanent display purchases of $3.9 million.
These improvements were partially offset by restructuring payments of $8.7 million related to the actions announced in September 2012.
As a general reminder with respect to operating cash flow the timing of cash flow from working capital can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of June 30 2013 was $261.1 million comprised of $130.9 million of available cash and $130.2 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Our revolver was undrawn at the end of the quarter and we had $9.8 million of standby letters of credit issued under that facility.
Moving on to the balance of 2013 we guided the cash flow guidance we previously provided for 2013 the following items remain unchanged capital expenditures of approximately $25 million permanent display expenditures of approximately $50 million and pension plan contributions of approximately $20 million.
Lastly we are updating our guidance for cash paid for income taxes to be approximately $15 million a decrease from our prior guidance of approximately $20 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the line for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) For our first question we go to Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Given all the new product launches that we had in Revlon that we outlined kind of last quarter I was a little bit surprised to see the sales there down modestly I mean could you provide a little more color and the kind of challenges that you are seeing on the Nearly Naked line? Yeah hi it’s Chris here.
So yeah as I said we had some very encouraging results in our new product launches recently.
Nearly Naked is a face franchise that we launched at the start of this year.
And at the same time the BB cream phenomenon really took off in the marketplace and they play in quite a similar place from the consumers’ perception.
So I think we’re being be impacted by that.
We’ve also benefited from ourselves of course with the growth of our own PhotoReady BB cream.
Conversely our lip business continues to do well nail continues to be vibrant and we continue to range to build our eye category through launches like Lash Potion.
If we were to look at the Almay brand and strip out the promotional allowances I mean do you feel that the brand volume and market share is recovering here? Well during the quarter I would characterize it as stable but I will go back to what I said earlier we are pleased with our new product launches for the second half but we remain very focused on improving the other drivers and they’re not all done overnight.
We work on a three-year rolling portfolio plan.
So over the three-year horizon we’ve got a lot of interesting products to fund.
We’ve been working on the repositioning of the brand which also includes changes to our communication created changes to our in-store merchandizing and changes to packaging.
Now yeah packaging takes time to flow-through.
You’ll see some of it install now.
You will see a lot more of it installed over the start of next year.
So we’re working on all those drivers.
We don’t guide this to how each quarter goes.
All I can tell you is we’re very focused on building the long-term success of the brand.
Okay.
And when we look at Asia Pacific and I think we talked last quarter about reducing inventories in China in particular kind of a match up with lower consumption trends.
Where do we stand on those inventory levels in that market? Yeah.
As we said they’ve been coming down.
Yeah our consumption grew soft in China.
Now that a lot of changes in the marketplace is a very mixed picture in that marketplace.
So we’re really focusing on our core customers that how can we partner with them to drive productivity in-store because in China it’s really a question of productivity.
If you want to expand distribution maybe straightforward but really the challenge is to raise productivity in the core distribution.
Do we feel that we still have little ways to go and bring those inventories down or we kind of reaching a stable point here? Well we are monitoring it constantly of course the inventories the equation between the sales values to the consumer they’re selling.
So yeah it’s something that takes time because over time you’re selling against your plan and then if your plan exceeds or misses the inventory adjusts accordingly.
They don’t manage on the total inventory number they manage on a number of days inventory.
So we’re working on it constantly.
All right.
Thank you very much guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
And for our next question we go to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
It’s actually Pat Trucchio filling in for Connie.
Good morning Pat.
Good morning.
So a couple of questions first one is what’s the impact of the end of the insurance payments in Venezuela on Latin America operations going forward? So as it relates to Venezuela insurance this really covers a couple of things first of all.
So as of today we have settled the business interruption and property claim as well as the inventory claim.
So all insurance claims have been resolved and settled.
Total proceeds from those claims like to-date have been $43.8 million.
We received the final installment of $14.1 million in July of this year.
And all of those proceeds have been reflected in our P&amp;L as of the end of the second quarter.
One thing that does remain on the balance sheet is a $4.5 million estimated accrual for the cleanup costs relating to that facility and that’s within SG&amp;A.
So what you’d expect to see going forward as it relates to the insurance is with the exception of the $4.5 million balance sheet item there should no impact in the P&amp;L as it relates to insurance from this point forward.
That’s the first point.
Second point which Chris talked about earlier is clearly the business conditions in Venezuela continued to have a negative impact on our performance.
And we operated that business to the extent that we can sell product in and get U.S.
dollar there to pay for it.
We will do that.
To the extent that we’re unable to get U.S.
dollars out of that country which has been an issue we’ve experienced since February of this year.
We’re simply not shipping products in.
And so if you see the impact of that being – that $6.3 million negative impact on net sales in the second quarter.
So as it relates to insurance from this point forward you should see no impact in the P&amp;L for Venezuela.
But Venezuela will continue to be uncertain as it relates to the business conditions in that country.
Got it.
And then so – through what period did the insurance payments cover profits is that they cover them through first half of 2013 or they cover all of 2013? I believe it was through September of 12 so it was an 18-month period – 15 to 18-month period so from June of 2011 through around September of 12.
And so is Argentina a bigger market than Venezuela? Not currently although of course Argentina is growing well.
It really depends on how many U.S.
dollars we can get out of Venezuela to take our product if Venezuela had full supply then Venezuela would be the bigger market.
So I guess in Venezuela is your facility up and running again and I guess does it relate to the currency restriction any idea on when that country might turn back to normal or I guess when business would return to normal there? So as it relates to the facility so the facility is not up and running.
The facility was destroyed by the fire and as I said we’ve got a $4.5 million accrual for the estimated cleanup of that facility.
If the facility is destroyed we do not at this point have a manufacturing footprint in Venezuela nor do we plan to we use our U.S.
business for sourcing products that can be easily sourced here or third-party manufacturers.
And so at this point I wouldn’t expect a footprint – a manufacturing footprint that we would own to be established in Venezuela.
As it relates to the currency restrictions I mean your guess is as good as mine.
I mean we constantly work with the local authorities and our local team down there to get the latest information on currency flows but as of now it remains uncertain.
So last question is just why has category growth in nail slowed from 18% in 2011 and 2012 to 2% in the latest quarter? Well I think it’s purely the impact of the size of the category.
So as you’ve seen over the last two three years nail has grown exponentially.
So there comes a point at which growth levels start to slowdown.
The important thing is the category is still growing but growth is driven by penetration usage.
There are so many people that use nail color.
And then there’s a frequency with what should I use it.
So there has been an increase in people’s repertoire of brands that they use an increase in a number of occasions that they’re using nail color.
But it obviously can’t go forever.
So the growth rate is slowing down as a result of that.
However who knows what’s going to happen in the future.
At this stage we don’t see any decline in the category.
But clearly growth can’t continue at high double-digit rates.
That’s it for me.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Pat.
Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mr.
Ennis for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all and thank you Rufus.
Thanks for joining our call this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report our third quarter 2013 results.
Thank you all.
You’re welcome.
Thank you sir.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator instructions) And now at this time I like to turn the call over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon’s Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin Ms.
Garofalo.
Thank you Alan.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our results for the third quarter ended September 30 2013.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are David Kennedy Revlon’s Vice Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer; Chris Elshaw Chief Operating Officer; and Jessica Graziano Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before I turn the call over to David I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning may include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results from time-to-time and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2012 Form 10-K and our 2013 third quarter Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements.
Next our remarks today may include a discussion of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow both of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
And finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to David.
Thank you Elise and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Chris to discuss our performance in the quarter let me comment on our recent acquisition.
As you are aware we purchased The Colomer Group for $665 million on October 9.
This acquisition represents a significant strategic step forward for Revlon.
The combined company will have pro forma annual net sales of approximately $2 billion.
We also expect the acquisition to provide cost synergies and to be accretive to cash flow and earnings in the first year.
The Colomer Group primarily markets and sells professional products to salons and other professional channels complementing Revlon’s primarily mass channel business.
The combination provides us with a strong platform to generate profitable growth.
It will also allow us to leverage the enhanced product innovation and strategic brand marketing capabilities of the combined company while expanding our brand channel in geographic scale and scope.
We have developed and will be executing a detailed integration plan over the coming months and we will remain -- maintain a strong focus on performance and effectively operating the combined business during this period of change.
Our objective will be to ensure the success of the combined business as we continue to build our brands through innovative high-quality new products effective brand communication advertising and promotion and superb execution in all aspects of our business.
So with that I will hand it over to Chris who will talk about our marketplace performance.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Total company net sales in the third quarter were $339.4 million an increase of 1.1% excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations as compared to last year.
This increase was primarily driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics despite lower year-over-year new product net sales particularly in the US as well as higher net sales of Revlon ColorSilk hair color and Revlon beauty tools.
These increases were partially offset by lower net sales in Venezuela and lower net sales of other beauty care products in the quarter.
In addition Almay continues to perform below expectations.
From a profitability standpoint we sustained competitive operating income margin this quarter which in part benefited from successful execution of our 2012 restructuring plans.
So let me start by discussing net sales performance by brand.
As a reminder I will review net sales performance excluding the impact of changes in foreign currencies.
In Revlon color cosmetics total company net sales increased as compared to the prior year.
With respect to new product innovation this year we have had mixed results.
Products that have performed well for us [indiscernible] where Revlon plays an important role as the color authority.
Examples of our success in lip include ColorStay Ultimate Suede Lipstick which continues to be exceptionally well-received in the marketplace along with our Super Lustrous color franchise we are pleased with the recent introduction and renovation of Super Lustrous Shine lipstick and Super Lustrous lip gloss.
We have also had success in nail this year where we have had positive performance with our new products namely our Revlon Nail Art as well as our Revlon Brilliant Strength nail enamel in the US.
You may recall last year we relaunched our two biggest nail franchises ColorStay Nail and Revlon Color Nail as part of our renovation of existing color franchises.
While we have continued to introduce on trend nail offerings in 2013 the scale of these launches has not matched the performance of our two biggest franchises last year and in addition we have seen a trend of slowing growth in nail.
Let me take a moment for a few comments on the nail category’s performance in the US which has been in the news.
The category has slowed progressively throughout this year.
However to put that in context this is compared to significant double-digit growth rates in 2012 on top of significant double-digit growth rates in 2011 based on Nielsen data.
While I cannot predict how the category will fare in the coming months what is clear is that today the nail category is significantly bigger than it was in the past.
In fact it is as big as the lip category year-to-date and we have multiple successful franchises with a continued strong pipeline of innovation.
Moving on to face last year we introduced several new innovations in face throughout the year.
In 2013 however our primary innovation was in Nearly Naked franchise which we introduced at the beginning of the year.
As we mentioned last quarter this franchise continues to perform below our expectations which we believe is in part due to the strength of the emerging BB Cream trend.
In fact consistent with this trend our PhotoReady BB Cream continues to perform well.
That said overall because of the performance of Nearly Naked we haven’t been able to cycle last year’s new product sales in place during the quarter.
Note that the underperformance of this franchise was one of the primary drivers of lower net sales in the US.
And finally with respect to our Revlon brand and innovation we recently received a number of Best of Beauty awards from Allure Magazine including PhotoReady Kajal Intense Eye Liner PhotoReady Color Correcting Primer Photoready Sculpting Blush Palette and Colorstay 16 Hour Eye Shadow Quad.
Turning now to Almay.
Net sales decreased year-over-year primarily due to its performance in the US.
As we discussed in previous quarters we have taken and continue to take actions on our renovation plan for Almay.
This year we have added Smart Shade CC Cream and expanded our highly successful eye make up removal range to satisfy more consumer needs and re-enter the lip category with an exciting new product Almay Color and Care Liquid Lip Balm which is a new form of liquid lip balm.
As this demonstrates we continue to focus on breakthrough innovation across our portfolio.
In addition as I mentioned last quarter our renovation work on Almay graphics packaging and merchandising is underway.
In women’s hair color net sales of Revlon ColorSilk increased year-over-year.
ColorSilk continues to perform well despite softer demand in the US category overall.
In Revlon beauty tools net sales increased year-over-year consistent with our comments year-to-date the beauty tools category remains soft.
However we continue to maintain our strong leadership position in the US and Canada and in 2013 our new products are performing very well in the marketplace.
Now moving onto performance by region.
In the United States net sales decreased $6.2 million or 3.2% primarily driven by lower net sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon ColorSilk hair color.
As I mentioned earlier lower net sales of new products on a year-over-year basis impacted the Revlon brand performance in the US.
In Asia Pacific net sales increased $2.9 million or 4.8% primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics throughout most of the region partially offset by lower net sales of other beauty care products in Hong Kong.
Moving onto Europe Middle East and Africa net sales increased $6.1 million or 13.9%.
Net sales in the third quarter of 2012 included the negative impact of a returns accrual of $1.6 million associated with our 2012 restructuring action which benefited the quarter comparison in 2013.
In addition the region benefited from higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in the UK and in certain distributor territories as well as higher net sales of fragrances in both Italy and South Africa.
In Latin America and Canada net sales increased $1million or 2%.
Net sales were negatively impacted by $2.6 million of lower sales in Venezuela primarily due to the impact of business conditions in the country including Venezuela’s currency restrictions.
Excluding Venezuela net sales increased primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Argentina Mexico and certain distributor territories as well as other beauty care products in Argentina and certain distributor territories that is in [Canada].
Now I will turn it over to Jessica to run you through the rest of our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
Since Chris has already discussed our net sales performance I will begin with gross margin performance for the quarter.
Gross margin was essentially unchanged year-over-year at 63.5%.
The third quarter 2013 gross margin benefited primarily from higher sales volume and lower manufacturing and freight cost as a result of our restructuring savings and other supply chain cost reduction initiatives.
These benefits were offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations and higher promotional allowances.
SG&amp;A was $175.3 million in the third quarter of 2013 as compared to $179.9 million in the same period last year.
Lower SG&amp;A in the third quarter of 2013 was impacted by favorable foreign currency fluctuations of $4.6 million lower incentive compensation and a benefit of $4 million due to the combined effect of a $2.2 million litigation loss contingency recognized in the third quarter of 2012 that did not recur in the third quarter of 2013 and a benefit of $1.8 million of insurance recovery in the third quarter of 2013 for costs related to this litigation.
The favorable impact of these items were partially offset by $5.9 million of expenses incurred related to the acquisition of The Colomer Group.
Moving onto restructuring during the third quarter of 2013 we recorded a net benefit of $1.4 million associated with the September 2012 restructuring program.
This consisted of a $2.5 million gain on the sale of our manufacturing facility in France which was partially offset by $1.1 million of restructuring and related cost.
We expect total cost for this program to be approximately $27 million $26.3 million of which have been recorded to date.
We also expect to pay cash of approximately $24 million related to the restructuring $17.1 million of which has been paid to date.
Overall this program is still expected to achieve approximately $10 million of annualized cost savings with $7 million expected to benefit 2013.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2013 was $41.8 million compared to $19.1 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was $59.3 million compared to $36.2 million in the same period a year ago.
There were some meaningful currency movements in the third quarter of 2013 compared to the third quarter of 2012.
So let me summarize the impact of these for you.
The total unfavorable FX impact on operating income was $4.7 million which included a $11.4 million negative impact on net sales a $9.3 million negative impact on gross profit and a $4.6 million positive impact on SG&amp;A.
Moving onto interest expense interest expense including dividends on preferred stock decreased $3.6 million to $17.9 million primarily due to lower interest rates as a result of our February 2013 bank term loan amendment and senior notes refinancing.
With respect to taxes the provision for income taxes was $12 million compared to $11.5 million in the same period last year.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds in the third quarter of 2013 was $2.7 million compared to $2.9 million in the same period last year.
And to wrap up our P&amp;L net income in the third quarter of 2013 was $9.5 million or $0.18 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $15 million or $0.29 per diluted share in the same period last year.
As a reminder the net loss in the third quarter of 2012 was primarily driven by a $24.1 million of restructuring and related charges.
Moving onto cash flows.
Net cash used in operating activities in the third quarter of 2013 was $5.5 million compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $39.6 million in the same period last year.
As compared to 2012 cash flow in the third quarter of 2013 was negatively impacted by the following items first we had $9.6 million of higher cash interest payments due to a change in the timing of interest payments as a result of our February 2013 senior notes refinancing.
Second we had $8.9 million in connection with the settlement of litigation related to the company’s 2009 exchange offer and lastly the remainder of the change against prior year was primarily due to changes in other working capital accounts.
As a general reminder with respect to operating cash flow the timing of cash flows from working capital can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors.
We continue to closely manage our key working capital accounts including receivables payables and inventory.
Net cash provided by investing activities in the third quarter of 2013 was $10.3 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $71.6 million in the same period last year.
The third quarter of 2013 benefited from a $13.1 million of insurance proceeds related to the 2011 fire in Venezuela as well as $2.7 million received from the sale of the company’s manufacturing facility in France.
These gains were partially offset by $5.8 million of capital expenditures.
As a reminder the third quarter of 2012 included the Pure Ice acquisition which was paid for with cash.
On the liquidity front our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand as of September 30 2013 was $262.6 million comprised of $132.4 million of available cash and $130.2 million available under our revolving credit facility.
After the quarter end on October 8 2013 we redeemed our outstanding preferred shares utilizing $48.6 million of the cash on hand at September 30.
Again this was a fourth quarter event and therefore not reflected on our September 2013 balance sheet.
Further with respect to our capital structure during the quarter and as previously disclosed in August 2013 we amended our existing bank term loan and revolving credit facilities to among other things allow for the [incurrence] of $700 million of incremental term loan debt to fund the acquisition of The Colomer Group which closed on October 9.
This acquisition and that related borrowings were fourth quarter events and therefore not reflected on our September 2013 balance sheet.
Now moving onto cash flows for the full year 2013 consistent with our historical practice following a certain 2013 cash flow information none of which has changed from the guidance we provided during our last call.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $25 million.
Permanent display expenditures are expected to be approximately $50 million.
Pension plan contributions are expected to be approximately $20 million and cash paid for income taxes is expected to be approximately $15 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Thank you ma’am.
(Operator instructions) We will first go to Grant Jordan of Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
First question just kind of big picture as you think about The Colomer set like which products in their portfolio or your portfolio do you see as maybe being able to cross distribute into the new channel? Well Jordan good morning.
At this point it is really early days with respect to The Colomer acquisition and we haven’t got to the point of developing what I would call a consolidated marketing plan.
So it is premature I think to comment on that.
Okay.
Is there a timeline for kind of when you think you will be ready on that? Well we are kicking off almost immediately a complete comprehensive integration plan and as we go through that plan over the next 12 months or so it will be focused not only on obtaining the synergies that we targeted but also on what revenue synergies that we might be able to achieve.
No problem.
Great okay my second question when we look at the Nielsen data I realize that doesn’t capture the international sales or certain customers you have but you know across a lot of your categories you have lost share over the previous months is that kind of what you were alluding to when you said the new product innovation has not been as successful this year? Well as I said in the US in particular we had a particular issue cycling out innovation on face of prior year so that resulted in lower sales.
And as I said in nail we took an opportunity last year to relaunch our two largest franchises.
The nail category is very hot.
We had some great innovation and so we relaunched our two biggest nail franchises.
That obviously was a big bump a year ago.
So yeah these things [indiscernible] new product innovation is critical for the category you know it is 50% to 20% of the annual business and you know we never launch anything we don’t think it is going to work but some things work better then we expect and some things work less than we expect.
How would you classify next year in terms of new product launches or innovation? Well as always we approach launches we believe we have got the strongest pipeline that we can have based on all the technological changes we are making and the examination of the trends.
So we are positive as always at this time of the year about our innovation for next year.
Okay.
Great thank you very much.
And next we go to Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
I have a few… Good morning.
How are you David? I haven’t talked to you for years.
I am well.
I am well and you? The same.
Good.
[indiscernible] so a question for Chris could you just refresh us on why fourth quarter 2012 US sales rose 14%? Were the face innovations largely -- it didn’t sound like from your commentary but were they largely grouped in that quarter I am just trying -- and how much of that growth was one time versus ongoing? Well as you recall yeah in the year last in particular the launch timings of all new products launched in the fourth quarter just as a general comment and we -- we obviously shipped Nearly Naked in the fourth quarter of last year.
And as a general view when you look at the categories the face products are higher priced than say lip and nail products.
So sometimes it depends on the make-up of what the new [products] are.
So if you have a face launch then yes that does tend to produce higher values than the pipeline and promo shipments that you make in the fourth quarter price of the consumption starting to occur in the first quarter.
Okay.
As you look into 2014 what is the spacing and timing of your new product launches?  It is the same as it has been every year coming so we started shipping in each quarter the new products for next year.
We have had some preview displays out that was -- there was no material change in the spacing or timing of the launches.
Okay.
Could one of you comment on the article in today’s paper about the industry’s efforts -- cosmetic industry’s efforts with the FDA? Are you looking… I will let Chris comment on that because he is a -- I’m not sure exactly what your title is but you are part of the PCP Council right? Yes.
I sit on the board and… Yeah and so he is very close to this Connie.
So let me be very clear because it wasn’t clear in the article.
We are very supportive of the industry’s effort to modernize the regulation with the FDA.
We are fully committed to working with the PCPC.
I work very closely with the council on this.
There is no suggestion from our part that we are not fully committed to working with the FDA on modernizing this legislation.
And does it mean national standards rather than state standards to you cost does the cost… Well that is one -- yeah I mean there are many parts to this -- to various GMP and things like that but yes having national standards is part of the discussion that is occurring.
I would point out something Connie.
This discussion between the PCPC and the FDA has been going on for years and so this is not a new discussion.
This is not really a new event.
It is an ongoing discussion and dialog.
Okay and just one final question as you did your due diligence on The Colomer Group what did you find that you thought would be the most obvious opportunities and what did you find that you think will be the most complicated aspects of the integration? With respect to the first question there are a number of opportunities and one of -- and I will speak broadly you know there is obviously some synergy opportunities on the cost side and there is also some real opportunities with the brands that they have with the capability that they have with the innovation capability in particular they have been very successful over the past few years of launching some very successful new products.
So we see that capability as a real opportunity for us combined with our capability which we view as extremely good as well.
So we like very much the opportunity for growth that it presents us and of course we think that having now as we say united the Revlon brand across all channels presents a very broad opportunity for us as well.
With respect to the second part of your question the -- with these integrations and I have been through a few of them they are complicated however we believe that we have a very good design organization and plan for our integration.
We have a reasonable timeline and probably the most complicated part about it is always with the people Connie.
As you know as you go through these integrations and you are looking for cost reductions that make sense then it causes some organizational change and that is probably the most complicated aspect of an integration.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
At this time we have no further questions.
So I would like to turn it over to Mr.
David Kennedy for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much all of you for having this call and we will talk to you again in January and thank you.
Bye.
And that does conclude today’s call.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon's Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Release Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator instructions) And now I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Elise Garofalo Revlon's Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin Ms.
Garofalo.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today's call.
Earlier today we released our results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31 2013.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Larry Alletto Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I’d like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning may include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2013 Form 10-K which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.
Next our remarks today may include a discussion of adjusted operating income adjusted EBITDA adjusted income from continuing operations free cash flow and certain pro forma results all of which are non-GAAP measures.
These non-GAAP measures are defined in the footnotes to our release and are also reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the financial tables at the end of our release.
Please note effective with this 2013 year-end earnings release we modified the definition of adjusted EBITDA to exclude in addition to those items defined in prior releases certain unusual items that are not directly attributable to the Company's underlying operating performance such as restructuring acquisition cost and other unusual items.
Please refer to footnote (a) in our release for a detailed list of those adjustments.
We have provided comparable reconciliations for the 2013 and 2012 periods at the end our release.
Next as a reminder we completed the acquisition of The Colomer Group in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our consolidated financial statements include the results of operations on this acquisition beginning on the October 9 2013 acquisition date.
As a result of this acquisition Revlon now operates in and will record in two segments; the Consumer segment which includes the Revlon business pre-acquisition; and the Professional segment which includes the business acquired from The Colomer Group.
Also with respect to the acquisition we have provided certain unaudited pro forma results for the full year 2013.
Pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the operating results that would have occurred if the Colomer acquisition had been completed for the period presented.
In addition unaudited pro forma results do not purport to project future consolidated operating results of the combined company.
Also please note that effective December 31 2013 the Company is reporting the results of its China operations as discontinued operations net of taxes.
As a result prior period amounts have been reclassified on the income statement to conform to this presentation.
Finally as a reminder our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Thank you Elise and to all of you welcome to our first call together.
My name is Lorenzo Delpani and as you know I'm the new CEO of Revlon as of November 1.
Prior to that I've been CEO of The Colomer Group since May 2007.
I just want to give you a few highlights on myself.
I'm Italian.
I started to work my career in P&amp;G Italy then moved to J&amp;J in Switzerland then in Benckiser as a General Manager in Scandinavia then I led the innovation and new initiative in Reckitt Benckiser in London and moved to manage a South Western Europe for Reckitt Benckiser in Barcelona and finally joined Colomer in May 2007.
And later in my Colomer period I moved to the United States.
So in that sense I have full experience in four multinationals between marketing commercial general management different roles leading to my previous assignment in Colomer as well as now as of November 1 I'm extremely excited to be leading this new opportunity.
I want to give some color to the rationale for the acquisition of The Colomer Group and give some details about it because maybe some of you are not fully aware of that business that as we heard from Elise we're going to consider it a separate segment.
The Colomer Group was before the year 2000 the Professional division of Revlon and at that time they may have called it in a different way but that's how we define it.
It was spinned off by Revlon in 2000 and was bought by CVC and other minority shareholder and CVC has developed the business and then I took over in 2007 and we managed last year to sell it back to Revlon.
So essentially it was a Revlon asset that had an independent life and story and then came back to the Company.
The channels that Colomer Group operates in is primarily professional and when we talk professional we refer that to salons and hair salons or nail salons and we address these channels directly we have an army of salespeople and for example that's primarily the model in Europe where we have approximately 600 salespeople and 37 000 approximately customers and that's basically a direct business or indirectly through major wholesaler and broker like for example in the U.S.
where we sell through these macro distributors.
The key primary category in which we operate are professional hair and professional nail even if we also have some mass brands in Spain and multi-cultural brands in the United States.
And the key brands are for nail CMB and the primary franchises that have been very successful in the past years and Shellac and Vinylux.
And then Revlon Professional for the hair care business American Crew that is a leading grooming brand in the Professional channel for men Orofluido UniqOne.
And then in the mass Natural Honey and Llongueras are the key one.
And in the multi-cultural segment the key asset is Creme of Nature.
And in the past years The Colomer Group has developed its business substantially and we have been arguably one of the most innovative professional beauty company.
And in this sense our recent stream of innovation has performed extremely well.
So I'll move to the acquisition rationale and essentially the rationale for the acquisition is simple like any other acquisition acquisitions are done to enhance the value of the combined entity.
And so this for us is driven essentially by these macro reasons.
First we wanted to reunite the Revlon brand globally so that Revlon brand and asset is now fully owned by Revlon.
We bought new brands new products with growth potential.
It has given more global presence and therefore provides us more geographical opportunities and scale in some of our international geographies.
It was a very important opportunity to challenge the status quo and boost the innovation capability and Revlon bought critical mass and in fact today we are approximately reaching the 2 billion mark and obviously this integration will deliver clear synergies and in the fundamental in cost of goods in our purchasing and we have different other scale factors that will lead and generate more value.
To give you an idea and that is pro forma information as it is clarified in our introduction the combined entity has $1.9 billion in net sales would have had in 2013 $1.9 billion in net sales and the total Company adjusted EBITDA would have been $348 million as a combined entity.
So as I said before I'm very glad to be given the opportunity to lead this combined entity forward and we have been working in the past months a lot on the integration and integration has been the key effort of our initial period as well as the definition of incremental opportunities along the key pillars that were described before.
The new Company vision or let's say the refreshed Company vision is to establish Revlon as the quintessential and most innovative beauty company in the world by offering products that make consumers feel attractive and beautiful.
This sounds or may sound like a bold statement or quite ambitious yet we mean it we are here to win and we are here to make it happen.
It's an inspirational course for us and we believe in it and through this mission we will generate value for our shareholders.
And I'm going to give a little color on the integration and the acquisition the target that was set forth was to achieve $25 million of cost reductions through our initial work.
We have identified opportunities up to $35 million approximately and Larry will give more detail on that.
The primary source of cost reduction are in cost of goods and fundamentals and that's the 80-20 of the benefits even if there are – and in the fundamental one of the primary benefits is basically the opportunity to integrate all the Company expansions and so we are keeping the model whereas the two segments have independent marketing and sales because we serve different channels with different assets.
So for the time being and the foreseeable future we will keep those functions independent but all other functions in the background we are in progress and advanced stage of full integration and that's the key source of these synergies.
But we have also obviously picking – this is not just an integration this is also an opportunity for us to look at the business in a fresh way and in different angles.
We have looked beyond the synergy of integration identified various incremental opportunities to optimize the allocation of our resources and therefore generate value.
Stemming from this analysis we have announced the exit from China which target approximately $11 million of annualized cost reduction ongoing and this goes on top of the $35 million from integration.
So we're approximately right now around $46 million of improvement and I think that's not bad for three months of dedication.
Our key focus for 2014 would be to successfully integrate the two companies and preparing a foundation for future profitable growth and in this effort we are obviously taking 360 degrees full diagnostic of brands processes country people et cetera.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will work you through our earnings.
I thank you for participating to this call and we'll connect later.
Thank you Lorenzo.
This is Larry Alletto.
Before I go over the earnings and those comments regarding the integration I'd refer all of our listeners to the 8-Ks that we filed in regards to China in December and then earlier this quarter for the integration savings but in regards to that let me just point out Lorenzo had mentioned that our current estimate is $30 million to $35 million of annualized savings with associated costs of $40 million to $45 million.
We have disclosed that we expect to realize $10 million to $15 million of those savings in 2014.
And in regards to the $40 million to $45 million of costs we have disclosed that we expect cash expenditures associated with that to be approximately $30 million to $35 million in 2014.
Let me just build upon one thing that Elise mentioned of all the results that I'll be talking about we'll exclude the impact of certain unusual items.
So again refer the listeners to our press release and earnings release this morning for the reconciliation of all those unusual items in the footnote.
Also as I go through the earnings I will be referring to the Consumer division and the Professional division.
Again the Consumer division is the legacy Revlon and the Professional division is the acquired Colomer Group business.
Let me start with net sales.
For the full year 2013 net sales were $1.49 billion versus $1.39 billion in 2012 for a sales increase of 7%.
I'd like to point out that the 2013 results do include the Professional division since October 9 and that increase was $116.8 million.
On an organic growth basis as reported net sales would have been down 1.3%.
Ex-FX or without the impact of foreign currency changes net sales organic would have been up 1.3%.
Let me now give you some color regarding the U.S.
region.
Again because of the brief period of time that we've had in regards to The Colomer Group since October 9 these regional comments will be focusing on the Consumer division.
In U.S.
sales increased 0.1% to $800.4 million which included the full-year price in 2013.
U.S.
had higher net sales of SinfulColors Revlon Beauty Tools Revlon ColorSilk hair care.
These net sales increases were offset by declines at Almay.
Net sales decreased on an absolute basis for Almay and on a relative basis versus the color cosmetics category in the United States.
In regards to Europe EMEA sales decreased 2.3% to $180.2 million.
On an ex-FX basis net sales increased 5.2%.
Higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in the U.K.
and certain distributor territories and fragrances and other beauty care products in South Africa were partially offset by declines in other beauty care products in France.
In regards to Asia-Pacific net sales decreased 2.2% to $204.5 million and on an ex-FX basis net sales increased 4.3%.
Higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Japan and Revlon and SinfulColors cosmetics in Australia were partially offset by declines in other beauty care products in Hong Kong.
In Latin America and Canada sales decreased 5% to $192.8 million.
On an ex-FX basis net sales decreased 0.8%.
This decrease included the negative impact of $12.7 million of lower net sales in Venezuela.
Excluding Venezuela net sales in the region were higher due to Revlon color cosmetics in Argentina Mexico certain distributor territories other beauty care products in Argentina and certain distributor territories and Revlon ColorSilk hair color in the region and they were offset by decreases in sales of Revlon and Almay color cosmetics in Canada.
Switching over to earnings total Company adjusted operating income in 2013 decreased $25.7 million or 11.1% to $206.8 million.
Primary drivers of this decline were negative impact of foreign currency of $14 million an increase in depreciation and amortization which was due in part to the acquisition accounting of The Colomer Group and higher incentive compensation from the previously disclosed 2013 long-term incentive plan transition grant.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased 4.7% to $283.7 million.
The primary driver for this decline was the negative impact of foreign currency of $15.1 million.
Similar to adjusted operating income it was further impacted by the higher incentive compensation as previously disclosed.
I'd like to pause for a moment and build upon Lorenzo's comment regarding the pro forma full Company profile.
In particular if TCG were included for the full year pro forma segment sales would have been $1.9 billion.
These were comprised of $1.377 billion for Revlon Consumer and Revlon Professional of $531 million.
Pro forma segment profit would have been $420.2 million comprised of Revlon Consumer of $347.1 million and Revlon Pro of $73.1 million.
Total combined pro forma EBITDA would have been $348.4 million.
Flipping now to taxes provision for income taxes was $46 million in 2013 compared to $43.7 million in 2012.
Cash taxes paid net of refunds for 2013 was $12.7 million as compared to $18 million in 2012.
Adjusted income from continuing operations decreased 34.7% to $50.4 million.
Adjusted EPS of $0.96 was compared to $1.47 in 2012.
Lastly due to our decision to exit the China business we are now recording the results of operations as discontinued operations.
Please note 2013 includes the impact of $20 million of previously mentioned and disclosed restructuring charges.
In regards to our balance sheet and cash and liquidity I'd like to point out that as of December 31 2013 available cash was $234.5 million.
At December 31 available borrowings under our revolver was $150.2 million.
Late last year we upsized our revolver to $175 million and since our increase in available borrowings has gone from $150.2 million up to $165.2 million.
Most recently as announced on February 26 we re-priced the $675 million tranche of our term loan.
The spread decreased 50 basis points the LIBOR floor decreased 25 basis points so 75 basis points of total savings.
Annualized savings to the Company expressed in dollars is $5 million.
Now moving over to the fourth quarter net sales in the Consumer segment was down 2.4% as reported or up 0.7% on an ex-FX basis.
The U.S.
was down slightly offset by positive net sales performance in international markets and the fourth quarter continued to be negatively impacted by Venezuela in Almay.
Net sales for the fourth quarter for the Professional division was $116.8 million representing the period from which we had acquired it.
In the fourth quarter total Company adjusted EBITDA declined $9.3 million year-over-year.
This was partially as a result of negative foreign currency of $5.4 million higher brand support and SG&amp;A and the phasing of incentive compensation accrual in the fourth quarter.
Net cash from operating activities of $117.5 million compared to $86.2 million last year.
With this we have concluded our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We have a question from Kevin [indiscernible] from Citi.
I guess I had a question about the fourth quarter it looked like the core Consumer segment was down pretty significantly from a segment profit basis and I was wondering if all that is the incentive comp or it looked also like maybe the currency was a driver as well but I was wondering if you could talk about some of the other drivers besides those? Again just going back we have called out the primary drivers as you point out FX consistent with the year was a negative driver.
Also on a year-over-year basis higher brand support and phasing that brand support in the fourth quarter was another one of them and then the phasing of the incentive compensation accrual for the incentive compensations being accrued for through the third quarter at a lower rate.
So there had to be an adjustment for the fourth quarter.
Those are the primary drivers.
Can you quantify them or did you just rank order them at least for us in terms of how you just listed those out? We have just quantified FX.
Okay.
Would you say that was – of the three FX was the main one and then brand support and then incentive adjustment? Again we just quantified the brand support and haven't disclosed specifically the other line items.
Okay.
And just trying to understand the reconciliation between adjusted EBITDA and the segment profit numbers that you put out [indiscernible] I could reconcile the two from the numbers that are in the release but if you…? The primary difference – there is a footnote that goes through the reconciliation but between adjusted EBITDA and the segment profit the primary difference is the unallocated corporate expense for the total.
So you come down to segment profit for the two divisions and then we have corporate and that's how we got to the adjusted operating income pro forma for the full Company.
I see okay I think I'm getting that.
And then I guess my last question is the $348 million of pro forma EBITDA does that include synergy expectations and any cost saving expectations either from the divestiture or outside the exit of China or the synergy expectations? So let me clarify that for you.
First that's a historical number for 2013.
So it is not inclusive of the integration savings that we have pointed out that would range $30 million to $35 million.
As the numbers have been reported the China is being treated as a discontinued op.
So therefore these sales earnings et cetera are excluded from the $348 million.
Hopefully that helps you.
It does.
Alright thanks very much.
We will take our next question from Aaron Rosen from Archview.
I just have a couple of questions please.
The working capital performance in the fourth quarter was very strong just you alluded to that being due in part to the TCG acquisition.
I'm wondering how much of that is this sticky is this cash that was generated from working capital at risk to be reversed as the 2014 year goes by? No this was primarily driven by working capital as you stated.
To give you a little bit more color the Professional business is strongly seasonal.
We tend to launch innovation in the first part of the year and there is a disproportionate investment and it's been historical and as we go it tends to be in the second part of the year typically we start to be generating more cash and we are very careful in managing our cash delivery without any peak in value simply due to the seasonality of cost and revenue and that's it basically.
Okay so whatever we're seeing here it's not one-time in nature just the normal seasonality of the business as it relates to the inclusion of TCG? I think that's a good characterization.
Okay thank you.
So the next question just on the restructuring you have clearly laid out the benefits and the timing at which those are going away or in have you said and maybe I missed this what the cash charges are going to be or the cash restructuring payments are going to be in 2014? Yes it is in the 8-K.
The cash amounts is $30 million to $35 million in 2014.
Okay and that's inclusive of both integration on TCG and China? No let me give you the detail on the detail in that that was specifically – the $30 million to $35 million was apples-to-apples with the $45 million to $50 million of costs in regards to China the costs were in 2013 for 2014 the cash portion expended is expected to be $18 million.
Okay.
And then just finally on China I guess I'm going back and looking at previous quarters for 2013 as they were previously reported and it seems like the numbers have moved as that's been now classified as a discontinued op was that – it looks like China was a loss for the first three quarters and now that it's been excluded has served to benefit the year-to-date numbers.
Is that a correct characterization? So I can't give you – if you look at the footnote and I do call out as I called out there's $20 million in 2013 which is the restructuring charge and in our big table when we filed it back in December we had suggested and approximated that the annual cost savings would be $11 million.
So I think if you look at the footnote and you look at the restructuring charge you can see how we got to that type of estimation.
We had also said in the 8-K that we expected a realization of approximately $8 million in 2014.
But again because it's been backed out of the operations you need to look at it with that lens.
Okay but the benefits from China are going to be additive to the $340 million of pro forma that you've disclosed as a historical number for 2013? No no because they are not in the results they are not in the $348 million.
So if it were a loss then it's not in the $348 million that loss isn't.
So you should look at the $348 million as the Revlon Consumer and Professional division without China.
Okay understood.
That makes sense?  Yes I guess.
So there is no incremental benefit we should really be expecting going forward from China it's kind of in the pro forma number? Yes that's the right way to look at it.
Okay alright.
Thank you very much.
We'll take a question from Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.
Given how important Revlon color cosmetics sales still are to the total Company what was the growth rate of sales in 2013? Connie we don't disclose performance by brand.
Okay.
But qualitatively as you can imagine it is one of our core assets and franchise and is a priority for us and there is no reason for us for it not to continue to be a priority.
Okay.
Let's see I think on the Professional business what is the sales split between sales to nail salons and sales to hair salons? We will say approximately I would say it's a bit more complex because you talk about the Professional segment as I said we have also a piece of it that is retail in Spain and we also have a multi-cultural division that is also operating in an hybrid channel mainly the top five Americans plus [indiscernible].
and therefore we don't have right now the percentage of the nail segment.
I would say that if I exclude the Consumer approximately more than half is nail and less than half is hair but that's mainly driven by the Shellac and Vinylux development.
But as I said this percentage has to be considered in light of the totality of the business.
Okay.
When the acquisition was announced and I assume you've probably seen the report we wrote on it based on Euromonitor data I don't know if the conclusions from that were right or wrong so I'd love your perspective on it but it suggests that the data suggested that over say the prior eight years in the hair salon business TCG market share went up a little bit but it looked as though it was out-marketed by John Paul Mitchell L'Oreal Estee Lauder and P&amp;G so that while TCG gained a little bit of share in professional hair care the others gained 20 times as much.
So can you give us a little perspective on historically what was going on? Basically I cannot comment to the source you mentioned.
We don't use that source and I don't know many that do in our industry.
And in any case we have a different perception.
First of all we do not have formal market share data in the professional industry.
Historically the information that we have comes from consolidation at the industry level by country in some sort of association that puts information together.
The data of this association have been quite inconsistent because not every company reports such information and let's say we have seen significant data with the source you mentioned.
Said that I can't really comment on the comment – let's say that our point of view and our reality is quite different to the point that some of the competitors that you mentioned for us are not even competitors.
But the fact is in our understanding and based on our as I said limited information we have been maintaining to developing our market share in the past years.
Okay.
If I could ask a few more the Professional sales from the date of acquisition were about $117 million.
Do you have what the change was from the same period a year ago and also on a pro forma basis what the year-over-year change was? So we don't – we are only accounting for the acquisition since the date of acquisition.
In one of the footnotes for business combination within the 10-K number two I'll just pull it out Connie if you haven't had time to go through it yet so Footnote 2 'Business Combinations' so for the total – on an apples-to-apples to the $1 908.9 million that we have mentioned in 2012 the comparable number was $1.911 billion.
Okay.
And just one final one where in the P&amp;L is the inventory step up charge booked is it in restructuring or is it in cost of goods and was everything sold through in the December quarter or is there more to go in March? So Connie you'll find it in the cost of goods and there is a little bit more for the first quarter.
Okay that's it for me.
Thanks very much.
We'll take our next question from Grant Jordan from Wells Fargo.
My first question it's helpful to get the $348 million pro forma EBITDA can you give us a sense as to what the pro forma EBITDA would have been year-over-year for the fourth quarter? No we just have it and again in the Footnote 2 'Business Combinations' we have tried to be able to provide some visibility into the year-over-year but we don't have that we just for the fourth quarter accounting in since October 9 for the 2013 reporting period.
How would you say the profitability for Colomer on a year-over-year basis trended throughout 2013? In 2013 on a pro forma basis and that's just to give an indication we have developed our profit and we can't give more color to that because we have agreed not to provide those details.
Okay I guess I'm asking it seems like the Revlon business kind of was down for most of the year pretty consistent just trying to get a sense for the Professional side of the business is it growing what are the trends been like? And I think it's important to have Lorenzo talk a little bit about the business to give you some color.
Again just in terms of refresh it to the 10-K when you get a chance to see to it we do provide income from continuing operations before income taxes for the 2012 period and the 2013 period and that income from continuing operations would be after depreciation and after unallocated corporate overhead.
Okay.
Do you have any plans to file pro forma of quarterly results? No.
What you see for the fourth quarter will continue on for the first second and third.
So you'll start to see year-over-year pro forma for – not pro forma year-over-year numbers for the Professional when we anniversary the acquisition in the fourth quarter.
But to give you a bit of color on the business the Colomer business since May 2007 when I joined then basically after approximately 12 to 18 months started a growth pattern that has been consistent quarter by quarter since the acquisition.
So regardless of external data sources that may give you different color my sources are internal and internal reference is that we've been developing the business both in top line and in bottom line and most importantly [indiscernible] we do this to stretch our business and clean up a lot of dead ends and pieces of business that were less strategic.
So in what Revlon acquired last year is a fairly healthy clean business and this treatment does not mean that we will continue to be in the future and that giving the disclaimer but at least as far as concerned 2013 the business is in a healthy shape and the main driver of this is our innovation model.
And we have been launching fewer bigger better innovation as I like to say and these innovations in some cases blockbuster status like for example Shellac and followed recently by Vinylux as well as overall of American Crew brand some successful introduction of new brands altogether like UniqOne and Orofluido that went from zero to significant size in few years those brands often are not accounted by these external sources.
And so net-net the business is healthy.
And as we know past performance doesn't predict future performance anything can happen some of our geography like everybody else are exposed and we are exposed in Europe and we are significantly developed in some European countries where the crisis is very deeper.
And so the situation is always challenging we face market challenges but as of 2013 the business was healthy.
That's very helpful.
Would you say in terms of the growth for Colomer it sounds like a lot of that was driven by new products how much of it was driven by expansion into new geographies for the Company? It was mainly driven by new products.
I actually in my tenure I kind of retrenched from geographies because I like to focus on fewer bigger better everything fewer bigger better brands fewer bigger better countries fewer bigger better people fewer bigger better across the board.
It's a bit my motto and focus and we were owned by private equity we were seeking an exit so I guess at the time it was not our priority to expand geographically.
Now being part of a company that is built to last it is our responsibility to look at the opportunity to develop geographically.
Frankly I don't expect to focus much on this part of the strategy for the foreseeable future for the short-term future because we have other opportunities in the short-term.
Okay.
My last question can you comment on your view on the Company's level of debt and how comfortable you are with the balance sheet and the leverage statistics? I think the most important thing Grant is I'd point out to the liquidity that we have in terms of cash balances as well as the $165 million unused on our revolver.
So I think that is a very good indication to look for the health of the business in the balance sheet.
We have a follow-up question from Kevin [White] (ph) from Citi.
So the $5 million of segment profit that came out of the Professional segment this quarter I imagine that's not the kind of margin run rate we should expect for the business.
So I was wondering if you could talk about the seasonality of the business from a cost perspective because I know the fourth quarter is typically the most profitable quarter for the legacy Revlon business.
First of all the numbers you talk about remember that they are not a full quarter they reflect the incorporation as of October 9 but approximately a quarter and it is a bit of an anomaly in the sense that a few things that came together like in one thing that in Colomer we didn't used to do and that's part of a philosophical attitude is to really focus on quarters and therefore we prepared in that quarter some purchases and investments for new things that we are launching.
You know that's part of the new accounting standard when we buy marketing material we have to expense it regardless when we use it.
So there is an unusual let's say overweight of [balance] (ph) report items that are affecting the period as well as some innovation sheets innovation timing sheets.
But as Larry indicated in his segment profit the total pro forma non-GAAP reconciliated information on our profit on yearly basis is $73 million and that is up versus last year and up versus previous year and up versus previous year.
So basically this last quarter is not an indication of that.
Unlike Revlon we are I would say last quarter is not necessarily most profitable.
It is we generate cash more than profit and so there is a seasonality of cash to profit and that also has a lot to do with our networking capital dynamics.
So I would say that that provides enough color and I want to restate again that our past performance doesn't reflect at all the future performance because in our business we play it every day in every salon and every day in every store.
So Kevin just following up on Lorenzo the Professional business is different than the Consumer business I want to highlight that if you're trying to draw parallels and then also just state that in the fourth quarter the Colomer business performed as we expected to.
Okay that's really helpful.
And I was wondering on the Consumer business can you talk about sort of the state of retail inventories and how retailers are approaching or approach the quarter from an inventory stocking level? We don't typically comment on the customers and inventory dynamics.
Okay.
More of a bigger picture question you sort of said your focus has been on fewer bigger better I should say as you're looking at the legacy Revlon business with obviously a number of smaller brands in the personal care and fragrance area can we expect that you might look to divest some of those I won't hold you to anything primarily but I'm just curious are your strategies more leaning towards divestitures versus acquisitions as you're looking at the legacy business? So we don't give comment on our future and I would agree that we don't give forward statement.
Said that broadly speaking we don't – we will probably do both divestment and acquisitions and it's part of the portfolio cleaning exercise.
And when you characterize it primarily divesting that may not be necessarily what we do.
As I said we are right now through the diagnostic phase and we have no conclusive plan yet and if we would have done we wouldn't disclose them for obvious reason and that's basically [indiscernible] the point.
Okay.
And I guess I'd take another run at Grant's question on the balance sheet clearly there are no liquidity concerns but could you talk maybe just from a long-term standpoint of what kind of leverage ratio that you would be comfortable running the business with or would you say that the leverage ratio you have now that that's the level that you are comfortable with from a long-term perspective? So on that first we don't have a target leverage and we are certainly comfortable with the current amount of leverage that we have and if you look historically Revlon they have from time to time had higher leverage than subsequently used excess cash flow to pay down.
So again we don't have a target leverage but we are comfortable with both our liquidity and the existing leverage we have right now.
Okay I appreciate that.
Thanks guys.
We have a follow-up question from Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
In Latin America can you tell us what exchange rate you are using in Venezuela is it the 6.3 or 11.7? For the 2013 the official 6.3 for 2013.
And for 2014? We have not made any disclosure we haven't made a disclosure to determination on the exchange rate to use.
Okay.
Also in Latin America what was the sales growth rate if you exclude inflationary pricing in Argentina? So we don't disclose that but I can say that just to give you a size and scope and maybe this will help you out Connie Argentina is less than 2% of our net sales.
Is that of the Consumer business or of the total Company? Of total Company 2013.
Okay great.
And just the last question with all the departures at the upper levels of management over the last few months how close to complete is your going forward team at this point and if you're looking to add talent in what positions or capabilities would that be? So some of the changes that seems to be quite dynamic in your supports according to your perception predated my rival and some individual are left on their own and some changes are made are driven by the new requirements of the new vision and the combined business going forward.
I'm looking at profiles that are obviously talented consumer goods background type of individuals and who have international experience with global breadth.
And most importantly that they have three characteristics that are displayed that they are achievers and they have achieved in their life meaningful results that they have proven innovation skills because innovation will be one of our competitive advantage.
As I said we want to become one of the most innovative beauty company in the world and so we need innovators to do that.
And most importantly people that drive really the business.
So we call this achievement innovation and drive or AID and this is how I want to aid the business.
And in looking at the team across the skill set that I just described I have made some adjustments and we have incorporated recently a couple of individuals integrated into a team and one is Gianni Pieraccioni.
Gianni Pieraccioni has 30 years of experience in consumer goods industry working in companies like Procter J&amp;J Pepsi luxury business and most recently was the Chief Commercial Officer of Alitalia where he managed a multibillion-dollar business and he's going to join us now to be with the Consumer business and he's going to lead it from a let's say mainly commercial standpoint.
On the Professional side as I said I'm going to keep them separate I have appointed Sennen Pamich and Sennen Pamich was already in the Pro business leading the U.S.
business and is now on a broad basis taking care of Pro.
So the departure of Chris when that happened we have substituted and we have two people that are essentially now slightly lower level but focusing on the segment independently because we have a segment focus.
These people bring on the table in my view exceptional managerial talent and I'm extremely confident that they are an asset for our future.
I'm not going to comment in detail on all the changes except to say that the team I have in place I may not be done with it because I still need to address some areas in marketing but frankly speaking in principle the team I have in place is a very strong team and pretty much I'm almost done okay basically.
And just one more what's your assessment of Revlon Consumer's R&amp;D pipeline or capabilities? I think that from a [indiscernible] standpoint Revlon just overall it's a very good characterization it's an assessment therefore it's an opinion as such it's not a fact.
This opinion may be incorrect and you cannot rely on it.
Said that I think that the technical capabilities of the Revlon team are ranging from category to category from very good to excellent and from R&amp;D standpoint we are strong we have strength and extremely responsible manufacturers and the capability of Revlon Consumer coupled with ours that of the Pro which were probably a bit more entrepreneurial and a bit less structured than the one of Revlon we'll make a good combination to feed the future innovation pipeline.
So from an R&amp;D standpoint we are in good shape.
And this is an opinion okay.
Okay thanks so much.
At this time we have no further questions.
I will turn the conference back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you everyone for participating today and we look forward to speaking again to you after our first quarter.
Thank you.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation today.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Jessica Graziano Revlon's Senior Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Jake.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today's call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2014.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Larry Alletto Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I'd like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2013 Form 10-K and our 2014 first quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP non-GAAP and pro forma measures to enhance the comparability of our results in light of The Colomer Group acquisition that occurred in October 2013.
These measures are defined in our release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of our release.
Just to note that the pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the operating results that would have occurred if the Colomer acquisition had been completed for the period presented.
Also the unaudited pro forma results do not purport to project the future consolidated operating results of the combined company.
In addition the results of operations have been adjusted to reflect the company's exit of its business operations in China as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
As a reminder the company's results of operation of its brand sold in retail channels including retail brand acquired in the Colomer acquisition are included in the consumer segment and the results of operations of the brand sold in professional channels acquired as part of the Colomer acquisition are included in the professional segment.
Finally Thank you Jessica and good morning to everyone on the call.
Overall Revlon first quarter has been very strong as comparable pro forma net sales were up by 6.4% and segment profit was up by 11.6%.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 15.2.
So indeed arguably a very strong quarter.
However we observed mixed dynamics for the consumer and professional segment.
Consumer business was flat primarily as a result of market softness year-to-date while the Professional segment had one of its best quarter ever.
This is mainly due to past business inertia for the Consumer business and strong momentum for the Professional business.
Larry Alletto will shortly go into details about the segment performance.
In addition it's worth nothing that the Consumer segment albeit flat benefited from a favorable return adjustment as we are reducing the quantity of new product launches.
This is the results of the implementation of our fewer bigger better innovation strategy.
Our strategy focus on more quality and less quantity of innovation and therefore we should see a lower level of returns going forward.
This will impact favorably the P&amp;L.
However at the same time this may be partially offset and will partially offset the level of the pipeline flow.
The integration of the Professional business is overall on track.
And a very significant project we are undertaking is the migration of our complex and multiple IT system to SAP.
This is a significant investment; this is required to create a strong and integrated global platform and also is the base for working potential future synergies.
Finally other transformational changes that we have undertaken are on track.
For example we are completing the elimination of our regional management infrastructure.
We are going to manage our business only globally and locally as opposed to globally regionally and locally.
This is because our scale does not justify the efficient maintenance of regional organization.
We are focused organization around segment of Consumer and Pro and we no longer look at regions because we no longer maintain regions.
This has resulted in some of the changes that you have seen in the earning release.
Now I will turn it over to Larry that will work you through our results in details.
Thank you.
Thank you Lorenzo.
Good morning everybody.
On a GAAP as reported basis our first quarter net sales were $469.8 million versus $325.9 million in the prior period.
Results reflect the inclusion of net sales of the brands acquired from TCG in the first quarter of 2014 with no comparable results in the first quarter of 2013 as reported.
Income from continuing operations net of taxes up $8.7 million or $0.17 per share compared to a loss from continuing operations also net of taxes of $4.5 million or $0.08 per share.
As Jessica mentioned for comparison purposes my commentary on the results for the first quarter will be on a pro forma basis adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-operating items.
These pro forma results reflect the financial results of both the company and TCG as if they were a combined company for all of 2013.
The details of these non-recurring and non-operating items as well as reconciliation of GAAP results to adjusted results and to pro forma adjusted results can be found in our earnings release we issued this morning.
Total company net sales in the first quarter were $469.8 million on an Ex-FX basis total net sales increased 6.4% primarily as a result of higher net sales from our Professional segment.
Before I speak to each segment just a note that the results for the Consumer segment in 2014 and 2013 pro forma include the results of Consumer brands acquired from TCG that were previously included in the Professional segment.
Specifically net sales in the first quarter of 2014 for these Consumer brands were $15.5 million an increase of approximately 10%.
Consumer segment net sales decreased slightly to $339.5 million.
On an Ex-FX basis they increased 2.8%.
The primary drivers of this increase were a $6.3 million favorable returns adjustment in the U.S.
as a result of lower expected discontinued products related to the company's strategy to focus on fewer bigger and better innovations and higher net sales of Revlon ColorSilk hair color partially offset by lower net sales of SinfulColors.
Consumer segment profit decreased to $71.5 million which was a 4% decrease on an Ex-FX basis.
The primary driver of this decrease was higher advertising expense to support the consumer brands of $8.4 million partially offset by an increase in gross profit primarily due to the returns adjustment net of related inventory write-off charges.
Moving to net sales in the Professional segment Professional segment net sales were $130.3 million which increased 17.4% on an Ex-FX basis.
Primary drivers of the increase were higher net sales of CND Shellac and American Crew products as well as net sales in the first quarter of 2014 of CND Vinylux which launched in the second quarter of 2013 and new products under the Crème of Nature brand which we launched in the second half of 2013.
We reported a $31.9 million Professional segment profit which was a 77.9% increase on an Ex-FX basis.
The increase was primary due to higher net sales as I have just discussed as well as lower advertising expense within the professional segment primarily due to the timing of advertising and other brand support in 2013 compared to 2014.
So I think I wonder I will give some color on the fact that it is important to look at Professional result of the first quarter in light of the fact that last year at the same time we didn't have Vinylux and we didn't have these multi-cultural innovation with the finest Crème of Nature.
In that sense that quarter has very strong momentum because such innovation were successful but we will soon hit the anniversary of the launch of these innovation namely April/May for Vinylux and last quarter Q4 for Crème of Nature and therefore these initial performance cannot be automatically rolled on a yearly basis.
Nonetheless we appreciate that the momentum is stronger.
Let's move on to the geography discussion for net sales.
In the first quarter combined U.S.
net sales were $250.2 million and international net sales were $219.6 million.
The 7.8% increase in the U.S.
compared to the first quarter of 2013 is primarily due to higher net sales of CND Shellac and American Crew products as well as net sales for CND Vinylux and the Crème of Nature brands that Lorenzo just spoke of.
Also included is the $6.3 million favorable returns adjustment in the U.S.
I just spoke about.
For international sales total company net sales outside of the U.S.
increased 4.8% on Ex-FX basis as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This increase was primarily driven by higher net sales of CND nail products throughout most of the international region and higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Japan.
With respect to adjusted operating income total operating adjusted income in the first quarter of 2014 increased 20.8% versus last year to $62.8 million this year.
And adjusted EBITDA increased 15.2% in the year-over-year period to $87.8 million.
Both measures were impacted by higher gross profit as a result of increased net sales partially offset by increased advertising expense within the SG&amp;A expense line and approximately $2 million of negative CapEx.
Moving on to liquidity.
As of March 31 2014 our unutilized borrowing capacity as well as cash on hand was $349.9 million.
Available cash was a $184.4 million and available borrowings under revolver was $165.5 million.
Of note on May 1 2014 we will use available cash on hand to optionally prepay without penalty in full our $58.4 million senior subordinated term loan whose current interest rate is 8.5% and would have otherwise matured on October 8 2014.
One comment on integration and restructuring we continue to execute our right to integration program and are on track with our previously disclosed charges cash payments and cost reductions.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we would now like to open up the call for your question.
Jake please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will hear first from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
This is Ryan Gilligan on for Connie.
My first question is on the Revlon and Almay brands can you talk about the sales trend in the U.S.
and worldwide for each of the brands in the quarter? Overall in the Q1 Revlon color cosmetic and Almay were flat overall.
Okay.
And as most of the business is in the U.S.
and the market has been soft in Q1 I would say that being flat is -- does not make us happy but is directionally encouraging because it seems that the market has done worse than that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And can you talk about the expected impact eliminating the regional management structure will have on the P&amp;L? Yes.
Let me take that.
The regional infrastructure restructuring that Lorenzo had talked about is actually included in our January '13 program where we holistically talked about $45 million to $50 million of cost $30 million to $35 million of savings of which we expect $10 million to $15 million for 2014.
So that specific project is inclusive of our previously disclosed cost savings and integration.
Don't have that detail right in front of us.
So let us come back to you on that.
And next we will hear from Carlos Castello with J.P.
Morgan.
My question relates to the changing strategy doing fewer but more impactful new launches has that affected your shelf space within each season or are you pleased with what kind of space you're holding throughout the period? Okay.
Basically Let's say we introduce 50 new innovation a year.
We're going to go may be to 45 then to 40 and may be end up at 30.
And hopefully each of those 30 will have a pickup what we progressively lose.
But it is important to understand that the key idea is indeed not to lose shelf space because the current innovation in quantity we do we put innovation on shelf but they become returns and we basically withdraw them.
So it's not about doing less and therefore losing space it's about doing less quantity and hopefully improving the quality so that what we do stay on shelf because it is a characteristic of our business but as well as apparently of the industry to have an incredible churn and some initiative stay on shelf less than a year and other about the year.
And clearly this is not efficient.
And that don't even give us the time to do a proper innovation diffusion which is basically the process for which you build distribution on a global level and then you make people aware of your innovation then you persuade them above your product they experience it they hopefully enjoy it and they come back with very big cycle.
Without giving you marketing class I just want to tell you that the repeat rate of the innovation is the key driver of the profitability of the business.
And if our production speed is very very very high we really enjoy very few repeat if any so it's a philosophical changer that will drive exactly what I said more quality less quantity and at this stage we are not concerned about specific shelf space losses related to this strategy.
Shelf space losses I just wanted to say are always profitable and are sometime driven by customer strategy in other cases may be obviously related to the performance of the innovation that we will put in play but based on the concept of our innovation block that I don't see a correlation with this -- between this strategy and shelf space loss.
So we have time this morning for one more call.
Jake? Now a question will come from Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo.
Hey thanks for providing the pro forma analysis it was very helpful.
My first question when we look at the Consumer segment like I mentioned given the state of the U.S.
being flat there is clearly a big win but when I relook at the stats received for Nielsen particularly for your products it seems like you way outperform those.
Can you comment on the difference there? I'm not characterizing it as you characterize it as a big win that simply saying that overall the result we're overall flat and accordingly to our data which may be different from yours would receive that the market has declined more than we've declined in sales.
So our stocking sales versus market and that's an overall column.
More detail for me is difficult to provide it as I don't look at the data and probably in the same way you look at them.
So it's difficult to reconcile this comment.
But as Lorenzo said when we look at the market in the first quarter we look at the sales; we're generally trending slightly better than the market.
Okay.
And there is no denial about the fact that I would say the market share of Almay and the Revlon color cosmetic has been declining in the past years and I don't think this was -- we are working really hard and investing really hard to make sure that we turn this around and that's exactly what we are at.
And in this first quarter while in the past we were having let's say a market that apparently was growing single-digit cumulative normal growth rate was effectively high-single-digit.
As of mid next year the market seem to have softened and the Q1 of this year is soft.
And we don't want to comment on this because it opens endless discussion.
Nevertheless in this marketing there is softening it becomes absolutely critical for us to grow market share in order to continue the growth of the company and that's what keep us here focused and that's what we're aiming to do.
So based on your data you would say that you did gross share in the first quarter? No I'm not going to give the share data because we decided that we're not going to provide that.
Right.
Let's say that either way characterize it as suggesting that is appropriate.
Okay.
All right.
And then just to kind of help understand the strategy of doing fewer launches.
Can you go to some specifics in terms of what products you pulled back on and then it seems like maybe advertising was up in the quarter even though you did fewer launches so just kind of how that might play forward? Well advertising is been up and probably is going to be up for the year versus last year if everything goes in line with expectation "I want to remind that any decision that we take from now on can be different and so can project the future based on what we're discussing today." But that yes we're advertising more because it's part of the innovation plot like doing fewer quantity more quality and supporting the innovation more.
So it is absolutely a consistent in by the idea let's say instead of I go back to this number which is our position.
Okay.
Let's say if I do 50 innovation and I have $50 million and I put $1 million each if $1 million each is absolutely insufficient to break the threshold of the class that we have out there and is not enough to create the proper diffusion then let's say that the number you need is $2 million each if I do 25 innovation I spend $2 million each I'm spending the same amount but I'm now all of a sudden crating a level of support that is capable of breaking the class there and overcoming the threshold of relevance.
So the idea of fewer bigger better innovation is not just about the quantity and quality innovation but is also of reallocating or refocusing the investment on the fewer things that we have so that they do become bigger and better.
Because being bigger and better is not just a function of design of the innovation which obviously we aim to improve but that is also function of support levels and of the diffusion plans.
And the diffusion plan cost money.
So the thing is coherent and consistent.
Okay.
At least in terms of objectives.
And as I said then I think it's worth reminding that well as I said before we're going to be evolutionary about this.
We are not going to be radical.
Okay.
And my last kind of follow-up to that is was there an area in the first quarter where you put more emphasis and was there an area where you put less emphasis as you go through that strategy? Overall you appreciate that in doing fewer bigger better.
I don't just decide to do better with the decision.
Coming up with better is about designing a better innovation.
And designing a better innovation requires understanding your consumer and identifying what's really relevant for them what's unique what's impactful from emotional standpoint; what differentiate us on shelf and what could be also ownable.
So these -- the focus of my -- very much the first quarter and will probably continue to be the case in the next months is indeed to design better innovation for the future.
And that is what we're doing right now.
And as far as concern the first quarter execution or diffusion we did indeed do what I suggest to differ which is to concentrate resources on fewer initiative and we will see how we progress in the next months.
We don't provide share data but some specific initiatives are working well and are benefiting from this focus.
But it's a bit soon to tell it's a bit soon to come to conclusion maybe we can give more color in second quarter because it's early.
So the execution in the first quarter as we've implemented a bit these concentration of recourses with the mindset of supporting a differ diffusion.
Okay.
It would be helpful.
I hear some of the examples of what is working not necessarily the actual share data but which products you're seeing return? Yes so I appreciate the (inaudible) we don't want to have to may be just from competitive standpoint but I don't want to give a product-by-product -- blow by blow of what's working where we're focusing the resources.
I think you can appreciate that.
Sure.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Okay so thank you very much for joining our call.
We look forward to speak to you in our second quarter and thanks for my colleague for the preparation of this.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Jessica Graziano Revlon's Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shallon.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today's call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2014.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Larry Alletto Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2013 Form 10-K and our 2014 second quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S.
federal securities law.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP non-GAAP and pro forma measures to enhance the comparability of our results in light of The Colomer Group acquisition that occurred in October 2013.
These measures are defined in our release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release.
Just to note that pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the operating results that would have occurred if the Colomer acquisition had been completed for the period presented.
Also the unaudited pro forma results do not purport to project the future consolidated operating results of the combined company.
In addition the results of operations have been adjusted to reflect the company's exit of its business operations in China as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
Finally our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
And with that I will turn the call over to Lorenzo Delpani.
Thank you Jessica.
And thank you all for joining our call today.
Looking at the second quarter as a whole I would characterize these as a good quarter.
We have continued strong momentum in net sales growth in the Professional division.
American Crew Revlon Professional hair color and Crème of Nature brands each contributed strongly to higher sales in the quarter versus last year.
And the Consumer division also add higher net sales this quarter than last year although at much lower rate than the Professional division.
Net sales in the Consumer division were positively impacted by Revlon color cosmetic and Revlon ColorSilk but were unfavorably impacted by the Almay performance.
So all-in-all we consider this a good quarter.
As you know a significant part of our business is in the U.S.
mass color cosmetic category which is declining year-to-date into '14 versus 2013.
While the color cosmetic category in the U.S.
continues to be softer we remain focused on supporting our brands with the intent to grow market share and develop our business.
To that end we have increased our advertising spend by $11.7 million in the second quarter versus last year which was primarily in support of our consumer brands.
Year-to-date we have spend $20 million more than last year which is a 16% increase.
Finally let me update you on our integration program.
The actions that have been taken to date are generating saving across the business and we are on track to deliver the annualized cost reduction of $30 million to $35 million by the end of 2015.
The information in details are quite granular especially when it comes down to the pro forma details by segment.
So I'll turn the call over to Larry who will walk you through the results in detail.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
On a GAAP as reported basis our second quarter consolidated net sales were $497.9 million versus $344.7 million in the prior period.
Remember that our as reported second quarter 2014 results reflect the inclusion of the net sales of the brands acquired from Colomer with no comparable results in the prior period.
Income from continuing operations net of taxes was $14.4 million or $0.27 per share which does not include the impact of certain non-recurring items in both periods.
This compares to $27.1 million or $0.52 per share in 2013.
Also on a GAAP as reported basis our year-to-date consolidated net sales were $967.7 million versus $670.6 million in the prior period.
Again 2014 results reflect the inclusion of the net sales of the brands acquired from Colomer with no comparable results in the prior period.
Income from continuing operations net of taxes was $23.1 million or $0.44 per share which includes the impact of certain non-recurring items in both periods.
This compares to $22.6 million or $0.43 per share in 2013.
As Jessica mentioned for comparison purposes my commentary on the results for the second quarter will be on a pro forma basis adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-operating items.
These pro forma results reflect the financial results of both the company and Colomer as if they were a combined company for all of 2013.
The details of these non-recurring and non-operating items as well as reconciliations of GAAP results to adjusted results and to pro forma adjusted results can be found in our earnings release issued this morning.
Total company net sales during the quarter were $497.9 million and segment profit was $113.8 million.
On an XFX basis net sales increased 3.6% and segment profit increased 7.1%.
Consumer segment net sales increased 2.5% on an XFX basis to $367.3 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Revlon ColorSilk hair color partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics.
Consumer segment profit decreased $82.4 million which was a 2% decrease on an XFX basis.
The decrease was largely due to $11.7 million of higher advertising expense in the period partially offset by an increase in gross profit primarily due to the higher net sales in the segment which I had just discussed.
Moving to the Professional segment.
The Professional segment net sales were $130.6 million which increased 6.7% on an XFX basis.
Primary drivers for the increase were higher net sales of American Crew Revlon Professional hair products and Crème of Nature products.
We reported $31.4 million of Professional segment profit which was a 41.9% increase on an XFX basis.
This increase was mainly due to the higher gross margin which resulted mainly from the higher net sales as I had just discussed.
Moving to net sales by geography.
In the second quarter U.S.
net sales were $255.2 million and international net sales were $242.7 million.
Both the Consumer and Professional segments contributed to the 3.3% increase in the U.S.
as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Within the Consumer segment higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk hair color and SinfulColors color cosmetics were partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics.
And within the professional segment higher net sales of Crème of Nature and CND nail products as well as higher net sales from contract manufacturing services were partially offset by lower net sales of CND Shellac.
Moving to the international net sales.
Total international company sales outside of the U.S.
increased 3.8% on an XFX basis as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Within the consumer segment net sales increased primarily due to the higher net sales of Venezuela of Revlon ColorSilk hair color Revlon color cosmetics and other beauty care products.
Results in Venezuela benefited in the second quarter of 2014 from increased availability of U.S.
dollars to import finished goods for sale in Venezuela as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
As I will discuss later as of June 30 we have changed the foreign exchange rate we used to measure our financial results for Venezuela.
We expect the change in rate will have a negative impact on Venezuela's results going forward.
The Professional segment's results outside of the U.S.
included higher net sales of Revlon Professional CND Shellac and American Crew.
These were partially offset by lower net sales of Orofluido throughout most of the international region.
With respect to adjusted operating income total company adjusted operating income in the second quarter of 2014 increased 1.2% versus last year to $67.4 million this year and adjusted EBITDA increased 3.2% in the year-over-year period to $93.7 million in this period.
Both measures were largely impacted by higher gross profit as a result of the increased net sales I have discussed offset by an increase in advertising expenses within SG&amp;A expenses.
Now moving on to liquidity and cash flow.
Net cash used in operating activities for the six months of 2014 was $6.4 million compared to net cash provided by operating activities for the first six months of 2013 of $11.3 million.
The $17.7 million of increased cash used in the comparative period is primarily due to changes in working capital.
Most notably working capital was unfavorably impacted by approximately $24 million in restructuring and other payments related to the company's exit of its operation in China.
As of June 30 our unutilized borrowing capacity in cash on hand was $311.5 million.
Available cash was $145.6 million and available borrowings were $165.9 million under our revolver.
Of note on May 1 2014 we used available cash on hand to optionally prepay without penalty in full our $58.4 million non-contributed loan which carried an interest rate of 8.5% and would have otherwise matured on October 8 2014.
As an update to our integration program we continue to execute our program to integrate the Colomer business post-acquisition and are on track with our previously disclosed charges cash payments and cost reductions.
Finally let me comment on Venezuela.
Our adjusted results for the second quarter exclude the impact of a $6 million foreign currency loss arising from the required remeasurement of our Venezuelan balance sheet.
At June 30 2014 we made the determination to translate our Venezuelan balance sheet using the average SICAD II transaction rate which is currently 53 Venezuelan Bolivars to the U.S.
dollar.
This was mainly due to the fact that we began transacting in the SICAD II exchange market in the second quarter of 2014 and intend to continue to utilize the SICAD II market to the extent available for additional allocations.
From a P&amp;L perspective during the second quarters of 2014 and 2013 Venezuelan net sales which were less than 2% and 1% of total company net sales respectively during those periods were translated at the official exchange rate of 6.3 Bolivars to the dollar.
Beginning on July 1 2014 and going forward we will translate our results at the SICAD II Rate.
Using SICAD II Rate in lieu of the official rate to translate Venezuelan's financial statements will have a negative impact on Revlon Venezuela's results of operations going forward.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Jessica.
Thank you Larry.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Shallon please prompt the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We'll have our first question from Connie Maneaty BMO Capital Markets.
This is actually Pat Trucchio filling in for Connie.
Just a couple of question.
The first one is in the context of fewer bigger and better launches going forward I am wondering what your thinking is for Almay? How does it fit in the portfolio? And what do you think it would take to get the brand performance to improve? So I want to make it clear that for us Almay is a core asset it needs turnaround and that's no question about it.
But it is a core asset is materially significant and we believe in the brand possibility to contribute to the future growth of the company.
That's why we are investing resources energy and cash into its turnaround.
The current results are temporary and the results of the implementation of our strategy that it takes time to be played out.
And then could you remind us how much of your sales and profits Venezuela represent on an annual basis? And that you have been using the 6.3 rate and that now going forward it is going to be at the SICAD II Rate of around 50? Yes correct.
That's consistent with our disclosure Patrick.
We don't breakout for our country's profitability so I can't answer that directly.
But let me try to help you for the quarter and it's relatively consistent if you look back the net sales for Venezuela was approximately 2% in the quarter and last year it was 1%.
And that is total company net sales.
So we included that to try to give you a sense of the magnitude.
And those numbers as we discussed were in fact translated at this 6.3 versus the 53.
So therefore you can just look at devaluation and see what the potential impact would be.
And at this point the issue with the fire and insurance payments et cetera all of that is done.
Is that right? We still have work to do in terms of closing out those issues.
But in terms of how they're being treated and that from a P&amp;L standpoint most of that impact you've already seen that.
And then just on the Dollar Store consolidation will that have any impact on your business.
And if it would do you expect an impact on inventories from drawdown as a result of it? No.
We don't expect anything material from this event and we have done yet an analytical assessment because there are not sufficient information to make it but in any case it shouldn't be material.
We'll go next to Grant Jordan Wells Fargo.
Just kind of looking at the SG&amp;A rate I know you talked about you continue to invest in advertising.
If you stripped out the advertising would the SG&amp;A rate still be going up? If you stripped out within actually in factors most of our integration savings have been flowing through the departmental line.
So there are a lot of puts and takes but if you corrected that I think you'll start to see an improvement in the SG&amp;A rate.
And then my next question would be can you give us a little more detail on the trends for Shellac and maybe how you see that playing out? Well talking about the year-to-date performance of Shellac overall on a global basis Shellac is doing well and continue to do well.
Remember that Shellac sell primarily through distributors so quarterly fluctuations are not unusual.
In this specific quarter we are doing particularly well internationally and a bit softer nationally and that has to do with the anniversary versus some trends of last year.
Last year Shellac in the same period had strong quarter because some domestic distributor ramp up their inventory positions.
So the underlining trend the matters is the sell out and the sell out of Shellac remains positive encouraging and we are pleased with the performance of the brand.
So just to paraphrase in terms of the data you're seeing is still -- the market share for the product continues to be strong.
As we don't have market share per se we receive some sort of extrapolation of sell out data from our distributors and consistently an indication from this sell out data is positive.
And market share in the conventional sense we don't have it.
At this time I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Lorenzo Delpani to offer any additional or closing remarks.
So thank you very much for joining our call.
We look forward to speaking to you on our third quarter 2014 call.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Jessica Graziano Revlon’s Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
You may begin Ms.
Graziano.
Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2014.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at Revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roberto Simon Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2013 Form 10-K and our 2014 third quarter 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company’s ongoing obligations under U.S.
federal securities laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP non-GAAP and pro forma measures to enhance the comparability of our results in light of the Colomer Group acquisition that occurred in October 2013.
These measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release.
Just a note that pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the operating results that would have occurred if the Colomer acquisition had been completed for the period presented.
Also the unaudited pro forma results do not purport to project the future consolidated operating results of the combined company.
In addition the results of operations have been adjusted to reflect the company’s exit of its business operations in China as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
As a reminder the company’s results of operations of its brands sold in retail channels include retail brands acquired in the Colomer acquisition are included in the consumer segment and the results of operations of the brands sold in professional channels or acquired as part of the Colomer acquisition are included in the professional segment.
Finally our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
With that I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.
Overall I would characterize this quarter as essentially flat with some ups and downs in net sales across the consumer and professional division.
The consumer division on an XFX basis is up 2% essentially in a category that is showing more single-digit declines.
Revlon color cosmetics had positive momentum in the United States but this has been offset by declines in the distributor markets outside of the United States.
Almay had a soft quarter yet we remain focused on the preparation of its turnaround.
SinfulColor has declined slightly due to category decline and fewer promotions this quarter versus last year.
On a brighter note Mitchum is growing behind its brand re-launch and increased focus and brand (indiscernible).
On an XFX basis the professional business is also up 2% for the quarter.
While the professional division has posted close to double-digit growth on a year-to-date basis the growth in the third quarter was modest as higher net sales of American Crew Revlon Professional and Crème of Nature were partially offset by lower net sales of CND nail products that in this quarter are compared against a very strong 2013 new product pipeline and the timing of certain promotions.
However the customer data we have seen on CND nails (indiscernible) remain positive.
As I’ve mentioned in previous calls we continue to spend more in marketing than last year mainly for our consumer division and brands.
Year-to-date we have spent approximately $24 million more than the prior year period.
This spending has been largely financed by net sales growth cost reductions and integration synergies.
Speaking of synergies the integration of the Colomer business remains a priority for us and we continue to be focused on the integration program which is on track to deliver annualized cost reductions of $30 million to $35 million by the end of 2015.
As a final point as far as adjusted EBITDA is concerned year-to-date we are up 6.7% on a pro forma XFX basis outpacing the incremental investment in the business this year.
Before turning the call over to Roberto Simon Revlon’s new CFO I wanted to note that I am very pleased to again work directly with him.
As you may know Roberto was the CFO of the Colomer Group and in his three years in that role he contributed to the successful implementation of our strategy of value creation.
Roberto has significant hands-on international experience in managing the financial aspects of the consumer and professional businesses having developed his career across a variety of financial roles in multiple countries including serving in local regional and global roles.
Since 11 October 2013 acquisition of the Colomer Group Roberto has served as Revlon’s SVP for Global Finance which included responsibility for the strategic financial support of both the commercial business and supply chain in the consumer and professional segment.
His position also included responsibility for the oversight of the SAP implementation.
Now as we look to strengthen market performance grow our business profitably and manage effectively our financial drivers I’m confident Roberto’s experience leadership and hands-on style will be a critical contribution to Revlon value creation moving forward.
With that I will turn the call over to Roberto.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
Here are the financial results for the quarter.
On a GAAP result basis third quarter 2014 net sales were $472.3 million versus $333.1 million in the comparable period last year.
I want to remind you that our reported results through quarter three 2014 reflect the inclusion of the net sales of the brands acquired from TCG with no comparable results in the prior period.
Income from continuing operations net of taxes which includes the impact of certain non-recurring items in both periods was $14.2 million or $0.27 of earnings per diluted share compared to $11 million or $0.21 of earnings per diluted share.
As Jessica mentioned my commentary on the results for the third quarter 2014 compared to Q3 2013 will be on a pro forma basis adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-operating items.
These pro forma results reflect the financials of both company and the Colomer Group as if they were a combined company for all of 2013.
The details of these non-recurring and non-operating items and reconciliations of GAAP results to adjusted and pro forma adjusted results can be found in this morning’s earnings release.
Total company net sales during the quarter were $472.3 million.
On an XFX basis net sales increased 2% compared to third quarter of 2013.
Moving now on to the segments in the third quarter of 2014 consumer segment net sales decreased 0.9% to $348.2 million as compared to same period last year; however on an XFX basis consumer segment net sales increased 2%.
This increase was primarily driven by $8.8 million of favorable returns reserve adjustment in the U.S.
as a result of lower expected discontinued products in the future.
These adjustments were partially offset by increased return expense for current year returns that were based on innovation previously launched.
Finally these net sales costs include lower net sales of Almay and SinfulColor partially offset by higher net sales of Mitchum.
The consumer segment profit decreased 2.9% to $78.1 million which on an XFX basis increased 1.6%.
The increase was largely due to higher gross profit as a result of the return adjustment I just mentioned offset by $3.8 million of higher marketing support for the company’s consumer brands.
Moving on to the professional segment third quarter 2014 net sales were $124.1 million which increased 1.2% on an as-reported basis or 2% on an XFX basis versus quarter three 2013.
As Lorenzo mentioned this increase includes higher net sales of American Crew Revlon Professional and Crème of Nature partially offset by lower net sales of CND nail products.
Professional segment profit was $25.2 million which on an XFX basis was essentially flat.
Turning to sales by geography in this quarter net sales in the U.S.
were $243.8 million 3.8% higher than same quarter last year.
Within the consumer segment U.S.
net sales increased mainly due to the impact of the returns adjustment I spoke about earlier.
In addition there were higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Mitchum products partially offset by lower net sales of Almay and SinfulColor.
The professional segment delivered higher U.S.
net sales of Crème of Nature which was more than offset by lower net sales of CND nail products (indiscernible).
Outside the U.S.
net sales of $228.5 million were essentially flat on an XFX basis versus Q3 2013.
In the consumer segment net sales decreased mostly due to lower net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in certain distributor markets partially offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics in Venezuela Japan and South Africa.
Within the professional segment the company had higher international net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional.
Moving to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA the company adjusted operating income for the period decreased 13.8% (indiscernible).
Pro forma adjusted EBITDA decreased 5.3% to $85 million in the same comparative period.
Both adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA were largely offset by higher market support of the company consumer brands higher incentive compensation expense that was driven by a lower accrual in Q3 2013 and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $4 million.
Finally taking a look at our liquidity as of September 30 2014 our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $338.5 million.
It was made up of available cash of $172.5 million and available borrowings of $166 million on our revolver.
Now I will turn the call back to Jessica.
Thank you Roberto.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Joe if you would please prompt the participants for questions.
Good morning everybody.
I have a couple of questions.
First of all the $8.8 million in the favorable returns adjustment is this a one-time adjustment for 2014 or will we see these adjustments quarter by quarter and do you imagine as you get your more impactful new products on the market that the size of the adjustments will decrease?  Okay I’ll take this response.
The adjustment that we made if you remember in the first quarter we made one for Almay of 6.3 and now made one it is a combined one for Revlon and Almay in total for 8.8 which is in this case primarily Revlon.
It’s an adjustment of reserve that takes into account future returns.
This calculation is quite complex and takes into consideration the future expected returns stemming from our future expected SKU discontinuation.
So we don’t give future guidance so I can’t give you exact details of what’s driving it but you can expect by what I just said that we are expecting lower discontinuation and this is somewhat the side effect of our strategy of fewer bigger better innovations.
Now it’s not the objective of our strategy of fewer bigger better innovations.
The objective of our strategy of fewer bigger better innovations is to deliver market share growth and subsequently net sales growth things that—and KPI that have not been achieved if you want for the past 10 years.
One of the reasons that this management team believes that that’s the key reason is that we have (indiscernible) innovated and innovated in quantity as opposed to quality.
The change that is taking place and what sometimes people that are not part of this process don’t fully appreciate it takes time for this change to take place because we have two resets per year so we can effectively make changes twice a year only and a new product can take between best scenario one year to up to three depending on the complexity to develop.
So this strategy of fewer bigger better innovations is going to take us one and a half to two and a half years to start to be deployed in the short term and what we have been doing this year let’s say the strategy is essentially we do fewer and we aim to do better and by doing so we will be able to focus on what’s left in a better way and therefore it will become bigger and deliver sustainable growth.
So with this logic we are executing for next year by now mainly the fewer and we are working on developing the better.
The collateral effect of doing this fewer is that we have to adapt for returns because in accounting for fewer innovation next year we are looking at lower returns.
Now at a certain point in time in the future which is over the next—I can’t predict exactly but over the next couple of years two three years something like that which is I give you just a conceptual range because much will depend on our speed of execution of the strategy we’ll probably reach our desired new rate of innovation in terms of quantity and quality and at that point our ongoing level of returns will adjust to a new level that is different from our historical level.
From now to that moment we can expect possibly a series of adjustments—no series is inaccurate let’s say some adjustments like the one we’ve been experiencing this year.
I am not in a condition right now lacking the quantitative details to give you an estimate or an accurate forecast and especially I wouldn’t want to do that because it’s also very much guidance for the future.
But in a nutshell it’s reasonable to expect another couple of adjustments like this one going forward until we reach the ongoing level.
Okay that’s helpful.
Could you explain what the non-operating foreign exchange was in the quarter? Was that a hedging loss? Below the line I forget the number – it looked like $9.3 million.
What was that? This adjustment was due to a balance sheet devaluation of our euro intercompany loans.
Balance sheet devaluation of intercompany loans.
Okay.
Why did capital spending increase so much year-to-date versus last year? There’s a big component which is the move from the old office to the new office (indiscernible) of that plus the investment on the SAP.
And to give you a bit more color let’s say the standard operation on capex is directionally in line with the history but on top of it we have two extra items that are completely incremental the most meaningful of which are SAP investment which is a multi-year investment to create advanced professional integrated systems in the organization that really needs them.
We have multiple legacies that are integrated in the company by mammoth processes and we are in the process of upgrading all of it.
This will improve the way our people process and systems deliver value in the organization.
Right now it’s the moment of investing and you see the cost.
We obviously do this because we believe that in the future this will generate value.
We have the same experience in the previous company and the process of implementation the combination of people process and systems delivered more effectiveness and more efficiency and that’s what we look for for the future.
The second is the office move.
Hopefully this is something you do every 15 years which is exactly the term of our lease.
But this year it has been a very expensive exercise because we had to recondition completely our headquarters here in New York and in addition you have to mention on this topic we have in the quarter a charge—an extraordinary quarter charge of $1.7 million which is related to a double rent for the month that we had to take the move so we have to pay double rent.
So that’s an item that is also unusual in the quarter.
Then there are some other capex that are extra that are somewhat related to the integration of Colomer but those are minor and are not worth entering in detail right now.
Okay just let me follow up on SAP and then I’ll let somebody else ask a question.
Is the SAP implementation for the Colomer Group was it already in the Revlon consumer or is this an upgrade for the total combined entity? So what we are doing is just taking the Colomer template of the acquisition of the company and just implementing it in the consumer division with obviously some minor adjustments that reflect the difference between the two segments.
But 95% is exactly the same as (indiscernible).
And in the process we are moving to the last version but essentially for the consumer division it’s new.
Okay great.
Hi I had two kind of clarifying questions.
One on the display spend total lower than what we had expected for the year.
Are you still thinking you’ll hit the $50 million target? Yes.
Okay so the spending will pick up in the fourth quarter.
Then the other question was the $8.8 million difference in the reserve how long do you normally take reserves out for? Is that something that you’ll know what the actual—whether it’s an accurate number as of the end of fourth quarter or is that something that could roll into 2015? I guess I’m wondering how far out in the future you take reserves for.
We do it quarter by quarter to assess the reserve.
Okay but— We have a consistent methodology that we review quarter by quarter.
Okay great but I guess what I’m wondering is do you have—is it three months of reserves six months of reserves and does that vary? It varies.
It’s not about months.
It’s about estimating the returns we are going to get so when a return takes place we decide to take away an SKU a specific one.
That SKU could have been an SKU launched—in theory it can happen five years ago four years ago three years ago two years ago one year ago or this year if we decided to replace it in any given reset.
It can even happen that we replace something we launched in the first half of the year so it’s not really three months of what.
This is not an inventory (indiscernible).
These are products that are having slow sales on the retailers’ shelves so it seems like behind your question you are thinking in analogical terms to inventory but this is not the way this works.
This works on our estimating.
We have for example 10 new SKUs stemming from new innovation and we need to make space for those; and depending on the amount of SKUs we need to introduce we decide which ones we take out and a dynamic reserve is created.
As the information becomes clearer because the innovation plan becomes clearer on a quarterly basis there is a specific methodology that we use to make such a determination.
As I said before it’s a bit complex and it’s really not the forum to go in details about this.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Joe we have time for one more question.
Hi good morning.
My question is on the increase in advertising spend.
I’m curious which brands you targeted with that.
I know I’ve seen a lot of the Mitchum commercials and I’m curious if there are others that you have targeted and how you feel about the success of it.
Kevin we’re having some problems some technical problems.
You were breaking up throughout your question.
Oh I’m sorry.
Can you hear me now or no? Not really to be honest.
Okay I’m sorry about that.
I’ll try to—  Let me clarify and confirm.
I think I got your question.
Did you say something—did you ask where did we spend our money in our marketing support? Is that the question? Yes which brands.
Okay.
You want brand details? Is that the question? Normally we don’t provide that detail and we don’t want to start doing so; but I know it sounds obvious my response but we obviously invested to our focus assets and the consumer division doesn’t have many – there are few.
So it’s Revlon color cosmetics being a core fighting category for us and it’s Almay because we are supporting and hanging in there in preparation of our turnaround.
It’s Mitchum because in this year it’s actually more significantly more resources in the year because we were re-launching it and it’s actually we are seeing encouraging signs.
So those are the key assets.
Then we have other brands like Color Silk and Beauty Tools that also received support but that’s not so much top line.
It’s more in the direction of promotional support and other-other.
So the top line support is primarily in the ones I mentioned and it’s difficult to give you because we started these extra investments somewhere in February and we are in October and it would be absolutely unreasonable to expect a payback in such a short period; also because we are going to work on improving the assets that we use to support the brand.
Having said that as I mentioned in my introductory notes I did make reference to the fact that on a year-to-date basis XFX pro forma EBITDA is up 6.7% and that outpaced the incremental investment.
So all in all we’re not unhappy about the financial return of the overall model okay which is delivering more EBITDA while investing in the business which is a bit of shift versus the past.
We still need to—we need patience and time and I have patience and time for this because we do not work as a company for the month or for the quarter.
We work for the medium term.
We need to see several items fully deployed to see the medium term impact of all our strategies and I go back to the fewer bigger better innovation plot the improvement of the assets the repositioning of our brands and all those things will come together in the next couple of years.
Some sooner than others and they will be visible to you but we don’t provide future guidance.
So initially from a financial standpoint we are reasonably satisfied that the investment at least is coming around and in fact as I said these incremental investments have been—we have at least enough EBITDA coming from sales to offset the incremental investments then we have other components in the drivers.
But you know it’s a good sign.
It’s a good sign.
I appreciate that.
My other question is on the returns.
Is the— (Indiscernible) Okay I’m sorry.
I’ll try back.
You need to go on a good phone! Yeah sorry Kevin.
No – my fault.
Thank you.
Kevin this is Jessica.
You can follow up with me separately after the call and I can help clarify any other questions you may have.
Thanks.
Okay so thank you very much for joining our call and we look forward to speaking to you on our year-end 2014 call.
Good morning to all of you.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon’s 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
As a request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you many disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Siobhan Anderson Revlon Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
You may begin.
Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the year ended December 31 2014.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at reveloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon’s President and CEO and Roberto Simon Executive Vice President and CFO.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone about few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2014 Form 10-K which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the Company’s ongoing obligations under the U.S.
Federal Securities Laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP non-GAAP and pro forma measures to enhance the comparability of our results in light of the company’s October 2013 acquisition of the Colomer Group.
These measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial table at the end of the release.
Just to note that pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the operating results that would have occurred if the Colomer acquisition had been completed for the period presented.
Also the unaudited pro forma results do not purport to project the future consolidated operating results of the combined company.
As a reminder the Company’s results of operations of its brands sold in retail channels including retail brand acquired in the Colomer acquisition are included in the consumer segment and the results of operations of the brands sold in professional channels acquired as part of the Colomer acquisition are included in the professional segment.
Finally our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.
2014 was a year of significant change in transformation and these resulted in strong growth for the Revlon business.
We integrated Colomer group into the company and deliver the expected synergies and related cost reductions.
We also redesigned our organization and significantly increased our investment to build and support our key brands.
Importantly we repositioned Revlon under the Love Is On concept in November 2014 and also reposition Almay under the Simply American concept in January 2015.
Initial market response is encouraging.
With the Revlon Love Is On campaign we have one mission to inspire love.
The idea for Love Is On grew from our quest to find a universal inspiring emotion.
Love is by far the most powerful and most positive.
From the moment a women puts on the Revlon makeup we want to captivate her imagination and to take her on a journey into the world of love.
The Almay Simply American tagline celebrate the spirit of American beauty fresh natural and authentic.
Almay Simply American was built upon the core American value of ingenuity and authenticity with an uplifting and pioneering spirit.
Our new campaign for Almay future brand ambassador Carrie Underwood whose effortless beauty and body is the essence of the brand.
As I said before this campaign the Revlon one was launched November 18 2014 and the Almay was launched in January and we prepare them over the second half of last year.
And initial market result as I said are encouraging.
Back to '14 thanks to our strategy of value creation and thanks to integration synergies our 2014 financial performance was the best in many years.
On a pro forma basis as a fact which is base for like-for-like comparability.
Our 2014 net sales increased 4.7% and adjusted EBITDA increased 12.9%.
This while we have substantially increased our brand support by 38.1 million representing a 10.8 increased over 2013.
So increase of EBITDA basically as in the business has been able to more than offset the incremental investment in the very same year.
We are pleased with these results and this motivates us to continue our effort to reposition our core consumer brand and to maintain and build on the strong momentum of our professional business.
For 2015 we will continue to focus on our strategy of value creation which is based on the following four pillars.
I want to give some color on it.
Because of us it's really the past that guides our transformation efforts.
The first pillar is that we manage the P&amp;L driver for value creation.
Second pillar is related to profitable growth.
Third pillar is cash management and the fourth is people.
So concern the first pillar -- our actions are driven primarily in the following direction.
Number one we try to increase and optimize prices and take any opportunity we have to increase gross margin through pricing.
Second as far as concerned trade spending we work harder to drive optimization and most importantly which doesn’t mean reduction it means redirecting the trade spending from sell in effort to sell out effort so to foster market share development.
The third bucket is -- we call it squeeze and is about driving efficiency in the supply chain organization and in the product costs.
The fourth bucket of the first pillar is the return on investment of our brand support.
We spent a lot more in brand support this year but it’s very critical.
It’s not just an amount of investment is critical the return on the investment and that for this purpose we need to work on two areas.
One is the impact that our investments creates in the market and the second is the efficiency of the media channels or the trade channels in which we execute such investment.
Last bucket is departmental trim and departmental reduction which is basically the drive to keep cost of departmental evolution below inflation.
These are the key pillars for managing the P&amp;L and we have a focused discipline in doing so.
But what really drives the difference of our strategy is actually more the pillar of profitable growth.
When we come down to profitable growth this is broken down in the following key pillar.
Number one is developing fewer bigger better incremental innovation.
And this is something I've touched before expensively.
It's a key endeavor for us because we want to have less innovation but more successful innovation.
This by itself drives efficiency across the whole organization.
The second block is deep diffusion we call it 3D three dimensional diffusion but it's a deep diffusion across our distribution channel in terms of consumer penetration and in terms of consumer repeat.
So essentially go deeper in driving consumer trial but in driving customer distribution and in fostering repeat.
The fourth bucket is about managing the mix and we have a renewed portfolio strategy for our brand but we also have an elaborate country scorecard that drives the prioritization of our country efforts as well as a portfolio we manage a portfolio at customer level.
Another bucket is the effort to expand our presence and we call this presence expansion and mega growth.
Presence expansion is about expanding and deepening the distribution in the country where we are already present and mega growth tends to be the project that we undertake in scenario where we are not present then we have to build the presence.
Last but not the least and it’s very important for us is the way we want to have a partnership with our distributors and we are present in many-many countries not directly but via distributors and we have started in 2014.
We have done a major redesign the way we manage distributor which is now centralized and we manage to them on a global basis under the principal of win-win distribution management and win-win profitable growth.
This essentially means that we see our distributor as partners and we work and invest together to grow the business.
The third core pillar as I mentioned before is cash management and here there is no science fiction but it's the solid work of that we need to do to improve networking capital minimize returns improve the return on our CapEx invested and finally tax optimization where permitted.
And last but not least the pillar of people.
Essentially that’s very important for us because all the strategy is implemented by the people with the people and thanks to the people.
So passionately we believe in talent and we believe in commitment and our values are achievement innovation and drive and we want people that are achievers.
We want innovators.
And we want people that have the strength to really drive the business forward.
And our motto here is a bit crude possibly but it is fewer better people.
We need and we have driving people organizational changes so to have a better people.
So that summarizes I think quite well what we’re working on and I want to keep elaborating on this concept of talent.
Talent is really necessary for our success at Revlon and Revlon employees are critical to the achievement of our mission and vision.
As a reminder we currently have 5 600 employees worldwide in approximately 25 countries.
We have taken the spirit of Love Is On that is at the base of the repositioning of our core brand Revlon to guide also our culture and inspire the drive that we need in our execution.
Our corporate love when we say Love Is On internally is clearly not the interpersonal like the one of Revlon.
And our corporate love is not unconditional.
It's a sort of a credo expressed in this way.
The spirit of Love Is On is captured in the following ten tenants.
Number one we love to win and innovate in everything we do.
Two we love to create value for our shareholders.
Three we love to satisfy our customer.
Four we love to amaze and delight consumers.
We love commitment to the work we do.
We love talent.
We love to inspire our people and challenge them to inspire us.
We love to be global and multi-cultural.
We love diversity in cultures styles and personalities.
And last but not the least we love [ruido] which is our -- let’s say my motto which is to be relevant to be unique impactful distinctive and honorable.
I’ll turn the call over to Roberto.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
Here are the financial results of full year 2014.
On a GAAP reported basis full year 2014 net sales were $1.94 billion versus 1.49 billion in 2013.
Remember that our reported results for 2014 reflect the inclusion of the net sales of the brands acquired from the Colomer group with no comparable results in the prior year.
Income from continuing operations net of taxes which includes the impact of certain non-recurring items in both periods was $39.6 million or $0.76 of earnings per diluted share compared to $24.6 million or $0.47 of diluted EPS.
As Siobhan mentioned my commentary on the results for full year 2014 compared to 2013 will be on a pro forma basis adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-operating items.
In this morning’s earning release you can find the details of these items and reconciliations of GAAP to adjusted and to pro forma adjusted results.
Total company net sales in full year 2014 were $1.94 billion.
On an XFX basis net sales increased 4.7% compared to 2013.
Moving on to the segments in 2014 consumer segment net sales were essentially flat as compared to 2013.
However on an XFX basis consumer segment net sales increased 3.2%.
This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Revlon Color Silk and Mitchum product partially offset by lower net sales of fragrances Almay SinfulColor and Pure Ice color cosmetics.
In addition in 2014 we had 15.1 million of favorable return reserve adjustments in the U.S.
As a result of lower expected discontinued progress in the future.
Consumer segment profit was also essentially flat as compared to 2013.
However on an XFX basis consumer segment profit increased 4.4%.
The increase was largely due to higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales as well as price increases and variable mix partially offset by 32 million of higher brand support for Company’s consumer branch.
In the professional segment full year 2014 net sales were $502.7 million an increase of 9.4% on an XFX basis versus 2013.
This increase includes higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional CND nail products and Crèam of Nature.
Professional segment profit was $104.8 million which on an XFX basis increased 49.5% versus 2013.
This large increase was mostly driven by higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales and lower cost as a result of the integration program partially offset by 6.1 million of additional branch report for the Company’s professional branch.
Moving on to net sales by geography -- in 2014 net sales in the U.S.
were $1.02 billion or 5.4% higher than in 2013.
Within the consumer segment the U.S.
deliver higher net sales or Revlon color cosmetic Revlon Color Silk and Mitchum products partially offset by lower net sales of Almay SinfulColor and Pure Ice color cosmetics.
In addition we had favorable impact from the reverse adjustment that I spoke about earlier.
Within the professional segment the U.S.
deliver higher net sales of American Crew and Crèam of Nature.
Moving onto the international results.
In 2014 international net sales were $919.1 million which decreased 2.2 on a reported basis versus 2013.
However on an XFX basis net sales increased 4%.
Within the consumer segment international net sales increased due to Revlon color cosmetic and Mitchum partially offset by lower net sales of fragrances.
Within the professional segment international net sales increased due to CND nail product American Crew and Revlon Professional.
Moving to total company results adjusted operating income in 2014 increased 7.2% versus 2013 to 267.1 million or an increase of 14.2% on an XFX basis.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.7% versus 2013 to 375.2 million or an increase of 12.9% on an XFX basis.
Both adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA on an XFX basis were mainly impacted by the XFX net sales increase of 4.7% an approximately 17 million of synergies and organizational core reductions related to the integration program.
These increases were partially offset by 38.1 million of higher brand support as well as increased general administrative expenses mainly due to higher severance expense and incentive compensation in 2014.
Taking a look at liquidity as of December 31 2014 our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was 435.7 million.
This was made up of available cash of $269.7 and available borrowings on our revolver of 166 million.
Now I will turn the call back over to Siobhan.
Thank you Roberto.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call to your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Thank you [Operator instructions] And we will take our first question from Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
If you can help us quantify just how to look at FX going into 2015 that would be helpful.
We cannot make projections of future payments.
However as you know in 2014 especially in the last six months the U.S.
dollar has been strengthening and Revlon is a global company with presence in various variable currency markets including European countries South Africa Australia Canada and Argentina.
So if I look at the EBITDA build up for 2014 there was $25 million add back for foreign currency of which 6 of that was related to Venezuela.
Am I looking at that right that 19 million was a cash cost of FX that you added back to EBITDA? Yes.
And based on current exchange rates would that 19 million be higher at current exchange rates going forward? It’s an average.
Obviously it’s an average of 2014 year.
Its accumulated impact over 2014 of the gap from our budget rate to the real rate has been like you currently said 18.3 million.
And there is another update for Argentina.
There was a more unusual one-off.
But as far as concerned the impact for this year -- at current rate you can make your own projection.
We don’t make forward statements.
And we don’t control the exchange rate.
18.3 is the sum of the total impact for 2014.
You know what the rates are and moving forward clearly we do expect an exchange rate impact but unless that the exchange rate changes.
Therefore the question is a little tricky because if we would know the exchange rate we would be in a different business.
That is something we don’t control it's reasonable to assume a deterioration.
But remember that we have already captured a meaningful part of the exchange rate decline between our primary pool of currencies and our current value.
Right.
I understand that.
It’s just we don’t have all the moving pieces to do the analysis ourself because we don’t see what your contracts are or whether you purchase in dollars so just trying to get a magnitude of the potential headwind would be helpful.
But I understand.
Yes.
We don’t know we don’t give that type of information and it creates only wrong expectation especially on these mater that we don’t control at all and it's outside our control.
Are you able to add that back per year bank agreement to the definition of EBITDA? No.
Okay.
Next question is can you talk about your planned usage of cash in 2015? Would you rather be focused on paying down debt or using it for acquisition? Yes.
As you are probably aware we have 675 million term loan due November 2017.
We will be making a required debt repayment of 24.6 million on our amended term loan facility late this month.
And obviously we are continuously identifying and evaluating ways to create values to the company.
As part of this evaluation process we consider many different course of actions including potential business combination debt repayment debt financing and investment into the Company’s existing brands.
Okay.
Are there any M&amp;A opportunities that you've seen that seem attractive? No comments.
We can no comment.
At this time we have one question remaining in the queue.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Hello.
Good morning.
It's actually Pat Trucchio on the line for Connie.
Just on the fourth quarter how much of the gross margin expansion was driven by mix? And what was the key driver of the mix benefit? And then also on the gross margin how much of did FX drag in the quarter and were there any other restructuring benefits in the gross margin? Thanks.
So in the first question the gross margin and gross contribution improvement is driven by volume price increases mix on sales specially because of the U.S.
and obviously the integration program that are delivering also synergies in the gross contribution profit.
Okay.
And then just in the Professional segment in the quarter what drove the big 12% increase? And in your experience is it possible to grow up that kind of an increase year-over-year? You're talking about net sales? Yes in the professional segment.
The XFX sales were up 12% just wondering what were the key drivers of that and in your experience can you grow up that kind of an increase? We don’t give forward-looking statements.
However as I mentioned before consistently what I said before our Professional sales are quite volatile and fluctuating because we don’t sell directly into a channel that sells directly to consumer.
We sell into -- primarily into distributor it's not only but primarily into distributors as well as salons.
And our timing and phasing of initiative and innovation is irregular and inconsistent over the year.
So sometimes we may have innovation in March and other times we may have -- the following year we may have it in April.
So if it takes place in March or April you have an unusual impact on the quarter.
The Pro business in 2014 results were unquestionably exceptional and excellent results and they are across the board in all assets.
So it's solid and the momentum is strong.
Said that if you want to go on the quarter observation the quarter can and was affected by some strong pipeline sales and you cannot therefore reasonably project that growth on a yearly basis.
We have strong momentum but the environment in which we operate in the professional business is extremely competitive and very-very dynamic and therefore I’ll stick with the fact that we have strong momentum but I would suggest that extrapolation is inappropriate and could be inaccurate.
Okay.
So I'm just wondering on the restructuring integration did I hear you correctly that you said you had $18 million of savings in 2014? 17 million.
So in 2015 I thought you had said previously that you'd expected $23 million of savings.
Is that still right? We are expecting 30 to 35 million accumulated.
Okay.
And the rest of it's going to -- will accumulate in 2015? Yes.
So in 2014 it sounds like much of the benefit accrued to the Professional segment.
Is that the right way to think of it? And if it is why did that happen and would that be the way that we should think about the benefit from the integration in 2015 as well? Okay.
So I don’t want to guide the way you read things but clearly there are two things to consider so I’m going to stick to the fact.
As I said that 2014 for professional was an excellent year.
Excellent exceptional years are by default the definition of excellent and exceptional not necessarily an every year occurrence.
So was a very strong year we have strong momentum and we will fight hard to keep the momentum going.
However from the way we read that the consumer results we are very pleased with the consumer result even if they may appear flat on sales or EBITDA level and that is because we have invested 38 million more in brand support that you don’t see any impact of that on EBITDA.
Most importantly if you see where we put that money and most of the incremental money consumer has gone in the United States.
In the United States business units that receive this investment would increase the sale and EBITDA.
That means that we have achieved feedback in the year.
We are in this process of transforming our brand and putting a lot more support behind them and achieving feedback in year one for us is a significant achievement.
So we are encouraged by this result in consumer and we expect we want to continue a positive progress.
So in a nutshell -- that's basically the answer the answer is Pro had strong momentum continuing to do so is extremely challenging because the market is highly competitive and there are all the factors that I mentioned in our reportings that can actually affect the continuity of this performance.
We have strong momentum but we will continue to face challenge and moving forward.
On the other side consumer we’re encourage by the initial result that we consider very positive and we are in the process of creating momentum in the consumer size as well.
Okay.
Just one more.
On the advertising on the $38 million increase how much of that was driven by the Love Is On campaign? And then I guess what's the right rate of advertising for Revlon as a percent of sales or is there a right rate? And how exactly are you measuring the efficiency of investment which you'd referenced earlier? First question is how much is driven by Love Is On.
And it's not -- Love Is On was launched Love Is On repositioning it was not a campaign it's a repositioning.
We have restructured the brand positioning so to become more emotionally relevant and we have decided to really embrace this love spirit.
This was launched on November 18 2014.
So most of the investment is in the combination of support of the total brand for the whole year.
This was only a fraction of the investment for 2014.
Now obviously in 2015 we’ll focus our investment whole around the Love Is On concept both at brand level and by also at the level of the initiative.
Second question what is the right level of investment.
Okay the right level investment there is no magic formula that we are following because if I would know exactly what that number we would exactly invest at that number.
But I really believe that it's not a matter of quantity as much it is matter of quality of investment and impact.
So it's not a guideline but we believe that investing at least 20% of sales or around 20% of sales is necessary and is not a very firm guideline but it's something that at least we aim to go to as step one.
As far as I’m concerned as I’m driven by growth and my objective is to deliver growth and to bring back the brand to really the quintessential status it deserves to be -- we are going to go through a phase of investment and as we start this year and the most important effort now for 2015 is to optimize the return on these investment.
And we measure it in many different ways depending of what kind of investment it is.
For example the biggest component that is probably media media investment as much as we could use sophisticated modelling to figure out whether it works or not I like to rely on a very simple measure which is are we growing market share or we're not growing market share.
So essentially looking at the consumption uplift what it means for us in terms of financial contribution because we can reasonably convert that and compare that with our investment.
So for example on a macro level because that macro level is important.
This year the extra investment in consumer was fully paid back so is generated in our sales to set such investments.
And now it has not generated financial growth but as first year or reinjection of gasoline to the machine we are reasonably satisfied by these results.
So macro level the biggest and most significant measure is are we growing market and are we doing sales.
And then when you go down to other type of investment like for example promotional activation at trade level the matrix as you can imagine are more analytical and more detailed.
And we can make assessment on whether we are getting on the efficiency of the promotional drop whether it's coupon drop or an SSI or things of that nature.
The analytics are available and they are common in the industry and one effort we do in that field for example is to make sure we do again fewer better promotional activations.
And the purpose of not just feeding our own user but with the purpose of generating new trial.
Then there are other investment like in store in store investments are important to Revlon in store the wall in store execution merchandizing secondary display visual activations.
Those are bit more hard to measure and in some of these we need to do experiments and test and get around the sensitivity of the result.
So brand support its own investment and working on these return to improve it is a key pillar as I mentioned before of the strategy of value creation.
So in some cases the measure is simple in other is more sophisticated and we are quite -- we're getting progressively more analytical about this investment.
Yes that's great.
Thank you.
That's it for me.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to today's speakers for any additional and closing remarks.
Okay.
As I said thank you for the call and we'll continue our work.
It's one of the challenging year as usual and we will hear you soon at the next earning call.
Thanks a lot and have a nice day.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Revlon's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you many disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Siobhan Anderson Revlon Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
You may begin.
Ms.
Anderson.
Thank you Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining today's call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the year ended March 31 2015.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at reveloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer and Roberto Simon Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone about few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our first quarter 2015 Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the Company's ongoing obligations under the U.S.
Federal Securities Laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP non-GAAP measures to enhance the comparability of our results.
These measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial table at the end of the release.
Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.
On a XFX basis in this quarter we were essentially flat in sales and down 15.3% or $11.7 million in adjusted EBITDA.
These results were affected by differences of initiatives versus Q1 2014 and significant incremental branch support in the quarter.
We incurred an additional $16.6 million in branch support as we continued to invest more competitively behind the re-launch of our key brands.
The remainder of the year branch support investment is expected to be more in line with 2014 level.
Additionally on an As Reported basis the first quarter of 2015 was significantly impacted by foreign currency exposures from our international markets resulting in a reduction of our As Reported net sales by $31 million and adjusted EBITDA by only $1.8 million.
FX in the quarter impacted our P&amp;L from a translation and transaction standpoint.
The impact of FX was partially mitigated by price increases mix of sales and cost of good savings.
If the current rates continue as they were in Q1 2015.
We expect unfavorable foreign currency variances at least in Q2 and part of Q3.
In summary this was a solid quarter where we continue to work hard to implement and deploy our strategy of value creation and to invest for growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Roberto.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
Here are the financial results for Q1 2015.
On a GAAP our reported basis Q1 2015 net sales were $438.5 million versus $469.8 million in Q1 2014.
Operating income was $45.2 million or 5.6% compared to $42.8 million in Q1 2014.
Net loss was $900 000 or $0.02 of loss per diluted share compared to $5.5 million of net income or $0.11 of diluted earnings per share.
This includes the impact of certain non-recurring item in both periods.
As I just mentioned total Company net sales in Q1 2015 were $438.5 million a decrease of 6.7% on As Reported basis.
However on an XFS basis net sales were essentially flat compared to 2014.
Moving onto the segments in Q1 2015 consumer segment net sales were $324.3 million.
On an XFX basis consumer net sales increased 1.4% this increase was mainly by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Mitchum products.
Partially offset by lower net sales of Almay color cosmetics.
Additionally net sales in the first quarter of 2014 included a $6.3 million favorable returns reserve adjustment in the U.S.
that didn't recover in Q1 2015.
Consumer segment profit was $62.2 million in Q1 2015.
On an XFX basis consumer segment profit decreased 10.6%.
The decrease was mainly due to $11.5 million of higher branch support for the Company's consumer branch partially offset by higher growth profit as a result of increases in net sales as well as price increases favorable sales mix and core reductions within cost of sales.
In the professional segment Q1 2015 net sales were $114.2 million.
On an XFX basis professional segment net sales decreased 3.8%.
This decrease includes lower net sales of CND nail products partially offset by higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional products.
Professional segment profit was $29.2 million in Q1 2015.
On an XFX basis professional segment profit decreased 7.8%.
This decrease was mostly driven by $5.1 million of higher branch support expenses for the company's professional branch and lower gross profit due to the decrease in net sales.
Partially offset by favorable sales mix and core reductions within cost of sales.
Moving onto net sales by geography in Q1 2015 net sales in the U.S.
were $244.4 million or 2.3% lower than Q1 2014.
The U.S.
deliver lower net sales on CND nail products and Almay color cosmetics.
Mostly offset by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk and Mitchum products.
Moving onto international results in Q1 2015 international net sales were $194.1 million.
On an XFX basis net sales increased 2.5%.
The Company had higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and American Crew throughout most of the international region and Revlon Professional products in Spain.
Partially offset by lower net sales on Revlon ColorSilk.
Moving to total Company results adjusted operating income in Q1 2015 decreased 23.9% on XFX basis to $47.1 million.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased 13.3% on an XFX basis to $74.3 million.
Also adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA on XFX basis were mainly impacted by $16.6 million of higher branch support expenses and higher general and administrative expenses primarily due to the higher severance cost incentive compensation expenses and legal fees.
Partially offset by higher gross profit driven by the Consumer segment as discussed earlier.
Taking a look at liquidity as of March 31 2015 our utilized borrowing capacity and cash on hands were $366.9 million.
This was made up of available cash of $207 million and available borrowing on our revolver of $166.2 million.
Now I will turn the call over to Siobhan.
Thank you Roberto.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please [indiscernible] questions.
[Operator Instructions] we will now take our first question from Carla Casella Hi this is May [ph] dialling for Carla.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Can you remind us of the timing of when you put in place your price increases on a consumer side and whether you're seeing any pushback and did you increase across all channels of retail or only select and over which products? We have increased prices we started in the second half of last year.
And we have increasing optimizing pricing opportunity which generally means an increase but not always is part of our strategy of value creation.
We do that and we intend to do that regularly on let's say on a yearly basis.
The increase that we strive to do on pretty much in line with inflation that's what we aim and occasionally like it happened last year we had price increased at in the United States for example that was higher than inflation.
And because it was while that we were not resorting to systematic price increases.
Increasing prices is part of the way to generate value and but is also part of the way in the case of Revlon brand for example to realign the different price level seeking consistency by segment and by in line with our let's say brand positioning.
All right so we do it geographically.
We try to do it in as many geographies as possible.
Obviously these philosophical price increase sometimes is counter receive the consideration that for competitive reason we may not do that in given geographies.
Okay thank you and just another quick question.
Have you seen any changes in the competitive stands from P&amp;G given that it's selling CoverGirl? I prefer not to respond to this question it would be a speculative answer.
Let's say that on a broad basis the only thing I can say that the market of color cosmetic is very very competitive and continues to be very very competitive.
There is entrants of new players there is existing player that are investing more quite a few value player sponsor by the retailers especially in the United States that are making new roads [ph] and I can't - we don't notice at all any flex of intensity from our competitors.
Okay thank you so much.
[Operator Instructions] and we will take our next question from Kevin Zeist with City I guess I first wanted to touch on the CBBeauty acquisition and just understand your strategy with fragrance going forward? Okay so as you probably appreciate.
We operate in primarily two segments one we call it a consumer segment one we call it a professional segment.
Our consumer segment is primarily color cosmetic so that's the biggest part of it even if we have more let's say typical person care plain in the consumer segment as well.
In seeking opportunity for growth in the future.
We are obviously keen to diversify our options for growth and also to diversify our risk.
And therefore we after deep investigation we consider that being active in the fragrance segment is an opportunity for us.
The fragrance business is showing organic growth is very very fragmented.
Many players in it are doing a job that we believe is improvable and therefore we investigated a platform for growth and we bought CBBeauty which is indeed a small company but CBBeauty for us is indeed that platform and CBBeauty has an incredibly talented pool of people that have longstanding speed and seen the fragrance business.
And as you know they're an U.K.
based company so there is that primarily the managed fragrance licenses but we also bought in this specific U.K.
acquired the U.K.
distributor which is called SAS.
Now the primary move for us is the one of entering the fragrance license business.
We believe that we have a competitive advantage in doing so and that is in the fact that for the Revlon Group the fragrance segment will be a priority.
We will focus on it in the future and because we start from a very low base we will be also very selective on the type of fragrances and licenses that we will pursue and develop.
So with the logic fewer [indiscernible] fragrances and that's the strategy behind acquisition.
Okay and they have the rights to one direction is the celebrity fragrance is that the area you think you'll be targeting could it be other types of brands as well and also just wanted to understand the distribution strategy I think if I'm not mistaken they use also with [ph] ardent to distribute at least in North America.
It's a bit more complex than that and it's premature for us to give you distribution detail.
However let's say that we are not going to focus on celebrities only and we foresee again a diversification between luxury brand celebrities lifestyle and others.
So once we will be more advanced and once we will executed it we will notify you in details because at this stage we don't want to provide forward-looking expectation and any other distribution CBBeauty enjoys significant distribution network.
They have it already and that's primarily through distributors and will review that in as a matter of operational business and we will consider any option available.
Okay great and then just in general with respect of acquisitions can you articulate sort of your comfort level with using the balance sheet and taking leverage higher? I guess if there is a maximum leverage you wouldn't go beyond for an acquisition.
I don't expect I think whatever we're going to do we're going to be in a situation where we have a safe level of leverage and a level of leverage that will allow us to continue to be flexible in our operational workflow and the same time you appreciate that we are the company that use leverage for acquisition and growth and that could continue and there is no specific statement for announcement that I have to make on this front at this stage.
Okay great.
I'll get back in queue thank you.
We will now take a question from Grant Jordan with Wells Fargo Just one from the can you talk about the increase level of advertising.
I believe you said you spent the quarter.
Was that behind new product launches was it change in strategy just give us a little more color on that? Yes and so we determined that the investment level of Revlon as per last year.
Where let's say including 2014 and before 2014 2013.
Where required to be [indiscernible] to be more competitive and that's true both in quantity and in quality.
So that's what we started to do last year.
Last year we have increased as you know branch support significantly and we have announced that in year end result and last year we managed to pay back the incremental investment within the year.
And this year we continue to invest more in branch support.
We have certain level of investment in mind that we want to reach and we are getting there.
Okay we are very much in a phase and that's why I define this quarter a solid quarter because is performing in what we were expecting at this stage.
We are first you seed then you water then you harvest.
Okay so we are right now we put seeds and we are watering the soil.
And we see the primary destination of this investment is indeed the consumer business and specifically the Revlon asset and Almay asset.
The bulk of the Q1 investment was behind the brand repositioning.
So for Revlon is Levizon [ph] and for Almay is the simply American platform and as we spoke before we are determined to re-launch this brand and create an emotional connection with our own consumer.
So to make them a bit less transactional or a bit and to have a more emotional equity and personality.
And that the bulk of investment of Q1 is somehow directed to these equity revitalization.
In the balance of the year I foresee that the bulk of our investment will be a bit more product-related and initiative related.
That there is always a mix and that's what we're doing right now.
Okay and just to confirm you said that the balance of the year should be fairly similar in terms of levels to the last year.
Yes directionally yes.
But we reserve the right we reserve the right pending market condition.
Share evolution competitive dynamics to change that.
Yes okay.
Thank you.
And we'll now take a follow-up question from Kevin Zeist with City Hi just wanted to ask about your ability to mitigate FX is that something you see being able you obviously did a great job this quarter and I'm curious of that something you think you'll be able to do in the I think you said the next couple quarters might still see some of that FX impact? So while I won't comment on what is my exceptional future quarter because also we don't know the exchange rate in the future quarter and two things are correlated.
I will deflect your questions lightly but answer it but saying that we have in place the company as part of the strategy value creation various programs that are design to increase the gross margin.
Among those price increase is not going to generated it doesn't generate permanent gross margin improvement because of occasionally it's not a necessarily continuous program but clearly we still rely for this year on price increase opportunities.
Second we have a very robust cost of goods improvement programs in place that are is part of our new focus on what we call the Squiz [ph] project and is not our new focus.
It's always been a focus in Revlon but for us is project that is delivering is delivering synergies and is delivering cost savings and we invested last year and we're investing now in CapEx to drive operational efficiency.
Then last but not least we are managing the mix of countries brands and this is also a factor that could help expand further our gross margin.
Now all this programs are in place as you've seen they've delivered the last year they've delivered in Q1.
I cannot confirm that they will continue to deliver in the future but let's say that these are active projects and active programs that are in place.
Thank you very much and I guess I just wanted to explore the returns line for a little bit I know I think the last several quarters or a few quarters last year you took you had the expectations that returns would come in lower given the shift in strategy to fewer bigger better and I'm curious if that has in fact in the case or if there is enough data to judge at this point? So yes the flow the rate as we call them is getting lower and so consistently with our reserve adjustment that last year created in the quarter important one-off if you remember in this quarter last year.
Almay took a $6.3 million adjustment so comparing this quarter with last quarter indeed we have that gap and so our essential flat sales are comparing with the quarter with that adjustment in place.
However those adjustments are done because we expect lower returns and we are seeing a lower level of returns they must doesn't equalize on a quarter basis because the lower level of returns is proportional to the number of new introductions.
So we have basically two key moments of the year where this things come in and one was indeed at the beginning of the year and we're going to have another reset of the work [ph] and now let me pass Roberto that may give you a bit more detail on this.
Yes we mention in prior earnings call the change in this strategy of fewer bigger better innovation generated in the past for our ability and our expected return reserve.
As our historical rates of returns some are down were no longer indicated of our current business model and as Lorenzo just mentioned we are continuing the monitoring the level of the returns with changes in the planographs [ph].
Okay thank you for that.
Last question was just on inflation in general is that part of the is that a significant benefit for you with maybe some packaging and oil based commodities coming down? We won't provide that detail you said it and clearly we have let's say why we have a headwind on the exchange rate.
We have tailwinds on price of commodity job.
We buy them in dollar though so in depending what plant we buy them for the FX kind of set each other.
Somehow.
Okay sure sure.
Are you making strides in sort of more balancing the other productions so that you combine more locally or produce more locally? Well we're trying but the reallocating production is a complex operational process that takes time and in the measures for which we don't need CapEx to do so we're trying to do a little bit but if you need CapEx we are not doing it because we don't bet on currency because if I would know what the future level of currency and we don't it's an uncertainty if we would know we could plan that.
That we don't know and so we can make an investment against an uncertainty or we don't believe we should.
So unfortunately these are wins that we are trying to mitigate as much as we can but we don't play on currencies that's not our business.
We play in the beauty business.
And this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional remarks.
Okay so thank you very much for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking to you on our Q2 2015 call.
Thanks a lot.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we’re about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Revlon’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Siobhan Anderson Revlon’s Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cecelia.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the quarter ended June 30 2015.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at Revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roberto Simon Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone about few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our second quarter 2015 Form10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company’s ongoing obligations under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Beginning in the second quarter of 2015 the company has identified certain unusual item impacting the comparability of the company’s period over period results as seen through the eyes of management.
As a result of these unusual items the definition of adjusted EBITDA has changed from that used in prior period.
The adjusted measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release.
Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
And with that I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Thank you.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.
This quarter was strong with adjusted net sales growth of 4.7% and adjusted EBITDA growth of 6.5% measured on an XFX basis and adjusted for comparability.
During this quarter we completed our acquisition of the CBBeauty Group and exited our business operations in Venezuela moving to a distributor model.
We also continued to execute our Strategy of Value Creation investing $14.7 million of planned incremental brand support in the second quarter of 2015.
The 6.5% adjusted EBITDA growth includes this incremental brand support investment.
And therefore we believe that our additional investment in brand support is playing back.
This quarter also continue to be affected by currency headwind in net sales which reduced as reported net sales by $30.2 million.
However excluding Venezuela our XFX net sales have grown by $23 million mostly offsetting the $30 million FX impact.
The currency headwinds that started in August of 2014 have remained strong in the second half of 2014 and the first half of 2015.
However if the exchange rate environment remained stable we expect lower headwind in the reminder of the year.
Notably on an EBTIDA level the exchange rate impact has been minimal over the past two quarter.
This is due to lower profit in countries where FX had a significant decline and the value generation from synergy and other value – strategy value creation driver which have delivered offsetting value.
I will now turn over the call to Roberto.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
Here are the financial results for Q2 2015 on a GAAP reported basis.
Net sales were $482.4 million versus $497.9 million in Q2 2014.
Operating income was $60.7 million compared to $62.6 million in Q2 2014.
Net income was $26 million or $0.49 of diluted EPS compared to $18.1 million of net income or $0.34 of diluted EPS in Q2 2014.
The results includes the impact of certain non-operating and unusual items in both periods.
Moving now on to our segment results.
In Q2 2015 Consumer segment net sales were $354.7 million.
On an XFX basis Consumer segment net sales increased 1.4%.
However excluding Venezuela consumer net sales increased by 3.7% on an XFX basis in Q2 2015.
This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales of Almay and Revlon color cosmetics partially offset by lower net sales of SinfulColors.
Consumer segment profit was $83.9 million in Q2 2015.
On an XFX basis consumer segment profit increased 4%.
Again excluding Venezuela consumer segment profit increased 11.6% on a XFX basis in Q2 2015.
The increase was mainly due to higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales as well as price increases favorable sales mix and cost reductions within cost of sales partially offset by $7.3 million of higher brand support for the company’s consumer brands.
In the Professional segment Q2 2015 net sales were $123.4 million.
On an XFX basis Professional segment net sales increased 4.1%.
This increase is primarily due to higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional products.
Professional segment profit was $24.3 million in Q2 2015.
It is important to note that the phasing of initiatives in 2015 is different than in 2014.
The majority of our plan brand support for 2015 took place in Q1 and Q2.
The primary drivers for the Professional segment profit results were $7 million of higher brand support expenses for the company’s Professional brands a favorable adjustment of $3.4 million in Q2 2014 related to a decrease in the inventory obsolescence reserve and the increase in the Professional net sales we just discussed.
The results on an XFX basis Professional segment profit in Q2 2015 decreased 21.3%.
Moving on to net sales by geography in Q2 2015 net sales in the U.S.
were $267 million or 4.6% higher than in Q2 2014.
This increase was driven by higher net sales of Almay and Revlon color cosmetics as well as Revlon ColorSilk partially offset by lower net sales of SinfulColors and CND nail products.
Moving on to the international results; in Q2 2015 international net sales were $215.4 million.
On an XFX basis net sales were up 1.2%.
International net sales in the Consumer segment were impacted by Venezuela.
Excluding Venezuela international net sales increased 4.8% on an XFX basis.
International net sales increased in the Professional segment primarily due to higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional.
Moving to total company results adjusted EBITDA was $90.1 million in Q2 2015 compared to $85.7 million in Q2 2014%.
On an XFX basis adjusted EBITDA increased $5.6 million or 6.5%.
This increase was primarily due to higher net sales in both the Consumer and the Professional segment as well as favorable cost of sales in the Consumer segment partially offset by $14.7 million higher brand support expenses in Q2 2015.
Taking a look at liquidity as of June 30 2015 our utilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $358.9 million.
This was made up of available cash of $192.6 million and available borrowings on our revolver of $166.2 million.
Now I will turn the call over to Siobhan.
Thank you Roberto.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we would now like to open up the call for questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] I’ll go first to Kevin Ziets of Citi.
Hi good morning.
My first question is on – just the M&amp;A environment obviously big acquisition announced by Coty and in terms of Procter brands.
And I am curious how you see the competitive landscape changing as a result of this both in the near-term and in the longer-term? Okay.
Basically it’s premature to comment I think on the Coty deal that is not concluded and operational yet.
However as you know the beauty category has become and even show – more show in the last year’s extremely competitive due to the entrance of new brand that got activated.
Brands bought by some of our competitors that now are active players.
And the recent development of let’s say private label type of players.
These already makes the environment very competitive and P&amp;G is a company that as everybody knows invest in the development of their African brands.
So at this stage the move to Coty is unlikely to change what is already a very extreme competitive scenario.
In terms of consolidation the consolidation does lead to benefit for the company that can materialize them but as you can imagine this company they have to pay for the acquisition.
So not necessarily the consolidation benefits get translated in a stronger competitive attack.
In our case consolidating Colomer with Revlon generated synergies and we are using them to increase the brand support and the way we compete in the market.
But when you – to do the acquisitions you have to really borrow a lot you have to generate cash flow so not necessarily depending on the price of the acquisition and dynamics of the acquisition it’s not obvious that that such consolidation will lead to significant incremental investments on their side.
So anyhow we’ll see.
The time will tell and we are ready for the increased competitive environment and as you know we have – versus 2015 – versus 2013 end of 2013 our brand support has been increased significantly.
We are more than $50 million okay dollars in increased investment.
The new Revlon is Revlon that has competitive level of investment and a strong pipeline for the future.
So we are ready.
Okay great.
And then just in terms of the consolidation does it in any way accelerate your desire to get bigger to look for I know either the CBBeauty acquisition but is there – are there other properties that you’re maybe think of accelerating your timeline on looking at? We’re not going to comment on that.
We are – as we said before and I repeat we’re ongoing exploring opportunities that are visible opportunities for our structure ownership financial and dynamics and that’s an ongoing exercise and we won’t comment on the details.
Okay.
Could you comment on CBBeauty itself and sort of why your expectations are there – are there from top-line or EBITDA perspective over time? Well I’m not going to – as you know guys that we’re not making forward-looking statement and we make an effort we did not do.
Obviously as I said before we bought CBBeauty.
Its right now work in progress fragrance business we think its an attractive segment despite and I appreciate that some analyst have a different point of view and they should have the view.
But it’s a very large fragmented segment and as such maybe country intuitive the competitive intensity is medium is not high because it’s very very fragmented.
There are lots of assets and lots of licensees that are in the market that can find a licensee like us that would take care of them and develop and grow them.
And that’s basically our objective right now.
We are working on analyzing potential licensees to develop and/or acquire.
But its work in progress and its premature to give you detail.
Okay.
And my last question was on Almay’s performance in the quarter and whether that was driven by new product launches in sort of selling of new products or whether there’s been improvement in sort of the underlying sales trend for a point of sale for their brand? Almay is a core asset and is up in net sales in 2015.
The growth of sales is not necessarily the results of – there is some growth – also a growth sales level.
But we are benefiting in this quarter and in the last by reduction of – in the flow of returns that the returns in the color cosmetic industry I just want to remind you and the others on the call are significant print instructor may because we launch an initiative.
It goes on shelf.
And the first moment we do so display this product that are on shelf that it’s significant pipeline that get return to us and eventually disposed of.
And we have by implemented fewer bigger and better innovation or as we definitely did fewer and we are working on making the more so better.
We had significant return reduction in the past years and this is one of the drivers that is offsetting and helping our more than offset that be FX impact.
And I will may in there is no one-off adjustment there is not an adjustment of the reserve data there is a lower rate of return that is impacting the quarter.
In addition we have moved the brand mix from transactional to a pool consumer pool based type of dynamics.
So what do I mean is in the market people FSI more FSI is like typical promotion you drop a value coupons and those are in the U.S.
they work but the increasing economic over FSI they are not necessarily good for the P&amp;L.
So you can grow business and share buying would dropping lots of FSI okay that makes a lot of sense and just making if you want an academically direction here but the they makes a lot of sense to drop FSI when you have an innovation and you want to get people to try your product because it’s one way to accelerate the diffusion of an innovation.
But if you are to took that products sales constantly feeling it we’ve FSI and FSI that means that there is initial in the underlining equity and strength of the brand.
And so we have reduced the level of FSI because we want Almay to walk on its own.
And we move some invest from if you want the FSI or transactional as I call it to equity pooling investment.
So this process you can see the results in the P&amp;L there is an uplift within the detail but there is an uplift on gross sales there is an uplift of net sales and that’s due to reduced return reduced FSI and increased gross sales.
As far as it is concerned...
The actual reduce.
Sorry go ahead.
No please.
I was just concerned it’s actually even despite moving away from transactional investment you are seeing lower returns for the Almay brand? Yeah.
That’s great.
I was completing the comment for accuracy that this allowed obviously is affected by the lack of FSI.
But we are finding an equilibrium because whether people appreciate that or not I want to put the resources on brands that can give me growth in cash and in the case of Almay we need to find equilibrium if not growth for the sake of growth it’s growth for the sake of having a profitable business and operating cash flow.
And therefore we are trying to find these optimizations for Almay and balancing the transactional investment to brand support.
Okay.
Thank you so much for taking my questions.
We will go next to Carla Casella of JPMorgan.
Hi on Venezuela you broke out the EBITDA for last year second quarter on first half have you give what the annual EBITDA was for Venezuela so we can get a sense for LTM adjusted EBITDA excluding it? We don’t give projections but it will be completely material for the rest of the year.
And then in for fiscal 2014 last year how much of the EBITDA that was included in your prior reported EBITDA was from Venezuela? So on the second half of the year last year we had the rate at 53 modular to the dollar.
So as I said the numbers are going to be completely immaterial.
Okay.
And then you mentioned that you pulled forward some of the brand support into 2Q have you said how much would that reduce the brand support or SG&amp;A year-over-year in Q3? We are not going to disclose that because it would imply forward-looking statements for you and our competitors.
But yeah as we’ve noted in the press release and that remains through we said that we expect the brand support for the remainder of the year to be inline with 2014 levels.
And now in – Q1 was higher and Q2 was higher so you can pretty much get the qualitative indication from that business.
Okay great.
Thank you.
That’s all I had.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go next to Grant Jordan of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
I had one question.
Can you give us a little bit more in terms of why the American Crew and Revlon Professional are doing so well? Is it new product additional distribution more take away? All right.
We don’t comment typically by brand expect that we call them out because there have been variations.
But it’s – its again implementing the driver of the strategy of value creation.
So and may sounds boring my answer but it’s really the compact.
And in the case of American Crew and Revlon Professional so we have four drivers one is P&amp;L managements one is profitable growth cash management and people.
In the case of American Crew and Revlon Professional is the second – is the second block which is profitable growth.
We have been working on presence expansion that means expansion of our physical presence in existing countries because we always have room to grow by acquiring new saloons and as well as expanded or enter the new territories via distributors.
That’s one of the driver of the growth of this business which is still long room to grow before we tap it out.
And then there is a second which is the level of investment in brand support that we put behind the brand.
Obviously it’s working in activating better flow of sales.
And further we attribute also in the case of American Crew – our – we’ve done a refreshed advertising plot that is proving effective.
And it will be – I don’t want to go in too much detail on that but it’s proving affective and we have this new concept of groom-to-win campaign that is liked across the board.
And as far as concern Revlon Professional similar consideration expansion of doors.
When we say door in the case of a Professional business we mean salons.
And it’s very much is low process because it’s literally delivered by people not by sales force.
There is low process but we are focused on it and we are expanding doors.
And in addition for Revlon Professional its worth calling out the launch that we are doing right now of a new color line that we call it the most beautiful color in the world and that is Revlon color cosmetics and that’s working very well.
And so essentially the second driver is present; expansion innovation brand support et cetera et cetera.
And these things are working well.
Okay.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I will turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
That’s it.
No more questions.
Thank you very much for attending the call and have a nice day.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Revlon's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Siobhan Anderson Revlon Chief Accounting Officer and Treasure.
You may begin Ms.
Anderson.
Thank you Tracy.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining today's call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the quarter ended September 30 2015.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at RevlonInc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon's President and Chief Executive Officer and Roberto Simon Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our third quarter 2015 Form 10-Q which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company's ongoing obligations under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
Beginning in the second quarter of 2015 the company has identified certain unusual items impacting the comparability of the company's period over period results as seen through the eyes of management.
As a result of these unusual items the definition of adjusted EBITDA has changed from that used in prior periods.
The adjusted measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release.
Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
And with that I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.
These quarter results were very strong and in fact adjusted net sales grew 6.8% and adjusted EBITDA grew 8.7% measured on an XFX basis.
The 8.7% adjusted EBITDA growth was achieved despite an incremental $4.7 million of brand support investment in the quarter.
In the first nine months of 2015 we have been in investment mode with an incremental $35.8 million of brand support versus prior year.
This investment as well as the continued execution of our strategy of value creation led to significant growth in the consumer segment net sales and segment profit both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Specifically we've seen very strong growth in our distributor market.
The professional segment was substantially flat however this is the result of strong performance across most of our professional assets being offset by CND domestic which has experienced some decline particularly in the value segment.
As for CBB within our other segment we're in advanced discussion for new opportunities and we will update you on the progress as appropriate in the future.
Overall we're broadly pleased with the return that we're seeing on our investment.
In other news in late September 2015 we launched a Revlon Love Is On $1 million Challenge.
The challenge participants raised $2.8 million for women's health charities and Revlon is donating an additional $1.4 million to the winning charities.
In total the challenge achieved over $4 million in donations to women's health charities including those that tackle women's cancer heart disease and diabetes.
In addition as part of the Revlon Love Is On campaign we also launched a Love Test video which has had over 25 million views in less than two weeks.
We believe that both the Revlon Love Is On $1 million Challenge and the Revlon Love Is On campaign have had positive impact on the Revlon brand equity attributable.
On an administrative matter as you may have read in the Form 10-Q that we filed with the SEC this morning Roberto Simon has handed in his resignation as our CFO.
Roberto has agreed to postpone his departure date until late February 2015 to assist us in effectively transitioning our finance accounting and treasury functions and overseeing the close of our 2015 fiscal year end and filing our Form 10-K with the SEC.
We thank Roberto for his commitment and especially the commitment to remain with us as we close out our annual financial cycle and for the professional relationship that we have had over the many years that he's been with us.
Notably we've already started the recruitment process to hire a new CFO.
I will now turn over the call to Roberto.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
Here are the financial results for Q3 2015 on a GAAP reported basis which includes the impact of certain non-operating unusual items in both periods.
Net sales were $471.5 million versus $472.3 million in Q3 2014.
Operating income was $55 million compared to $54.2 million in Q3 2014.
Net income was $6.2 million or $0.12 of diluted EPS compared to $14.6 million of net income or $0.28 of diluted EPS in Q3 2014.
The decrease in net income was largely due to higher taxes spent as a result of the following tax items.
Higher pretax income certain favorable discreet items in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015 and an increase in the valuation allowance related to certain assets in the U.S.
as a result of a change in law.
Moving on to our segment results in Q3 2015 consumer segment net sales were $348.1 million.
On an XFX basis consumer segment net sales increased 5.9%.
This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales on Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk and Mitchum products partially offset by lower net sales of Almay.
Consumer segment profit was $86 million in Q3 2015.
On an XFX basis consumer segment profit increased 17.6%.
The increase is mainly due to higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales partially offset by $2.8 million of higher brand support for the company's consumer brands.
In the professional segment Q3 2015 net sales were $114.5 million.
On an XFX basis professional segment net sales increased 1%.
This increase is mainly due to higher net sales of Creme of Nature American Crew and Revlon Professional hair products partially offset by lower net sales of CND in the U.S..
Professional segment profit was $23.4 million in Q3 2015.
On an XFX basis professional segment profit was essentially flat.
Moving on to net sales by geography in Q3 2015 net sales in the U.S.
were $255 million 4.6% higher than in Q3 2014.
This increase was driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk and Creme of Nature partially offset by lower net sales of Almay and CND.
Moving on to international results in Q3 2015 international net sales were $216.5 million.
On an XFX basis net sales were up 8.6%.
International net sales increased in the consumer segment primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Revlon ColorSilk and Mitchum.
In the professional segment international net sales increased mainly due to higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional.
From a geographic perspective the increase was primarily driven by certain distributor markets.
Moving to total company results adjusted EBITDA was $87.6 million in Q3 2015 compared to $85.4 million in Q3 2014.
On an XFX basis adjusted EBITDA increased $7.4 million or 8.7%.
This increase was mainly driven by higher gross profit in the consumer segment partially offset by $4.7 million of higher brand support expenses in Q3 2015.
The 8.7% increase on adjusted EBITDA also included incremental severance for 2015 as we have been investing more in upgrading our people and talent following our strategy of value creation.
Taking a look at liquidity as of September 30 2015 our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $345 million.
This was made up of available cash of $178.8 million and available borrowing on our revolver of $156.2 million.
Now I will turn the call over to Siobhan.
Thank you Roberto.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And we will go first to Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
You talked about the $4.5 million of additional brand support in the quarter.
Can you give us just some details of what type of programs you're running there? And also do we expect the same for fourth quarter? Okay.
It's way too long to articulate in details very good but broadly speaking you need to get -- I'm going to go on overall concept.
Overall we have since the end of the 2013 when we started the new strategy we have significantly hampered our investments across the board because we needed to be more competitive.
And the way you're competitive in the market is investing to achieve a higher share of voice when it comes down to media higher share of activity when it comes down to trade activity and supporting merchandising investment as well.
So broadly speaking the buckets where the money has gone and continues to go are media in store activation and in store promotion of our product and merchandising.
In addition we use -- we have worked hard to expand our geographical presence.
So in some cases the increase is not so much in the existing geography but is in new geography.
In fact we're progressing at a very high rate internationally even if unfortunately it's offset by FX effects.
And that growth comes from incremental investment for example in Japan or Australia or other countries.
So this incremental investment in geography is where we're launching new brands.
For example the Revlon ColorSilk requires incremental investment and so broadly speaking I would say that I don't have the exact math but the majority of the investment has taken place in existing markets and the minority but significant portion of it has gone to just feed geographical new market development new brand rollouts and therefore requires investment.
We have been very aggressive in amping investment in the past two years and I think we've reached a level that I will consider competitive.
As far as concerns Q4 as we indicated before this year we have somewhat the phasing of the initiative and the phasing of the investment has been a bit heavier in Q1 Q2.
And a little bit in Q3.
We expect Q4 to be much more moderate and therefore the quarter Q4 is likely to have a lower amount of brand support.
For the future and as far as concerns the future we will I think as I said we reach a competitive level as a percentage of sales but as we grow our sales and as we plan to do so part of that plan we may grow the absolute amount of investment.
But in terms of investment as a percentage of sales I think we have reached a reasonable competitive level.
And then one other the permanent display spending do you still target $50 million for the year? Or should we -- and is that a good number going forward as well? That is a good estimate of our investment for the year.
And we're going to seek opportunities to become more efficient in this investment and that will require harmonization of assets across the world.
That's a significant investment for the color cosmetic business.
You know we have different businesses and the permanent display primarily effects the color cosmetics is a significant investment as I said that is an important cash item.
For the future we will try to become more efficient in harmonizing design and sourcing across the world.
Having said that this is not an indication that we will achieve such an endeavor but it's an area definitely of focus for us.
And we will take our next question from Kevin Ziets with Citi.
My first question was on Almay.
It sounds like it didn't have as strong of a quarter as maybe you were hoping for.
I'm just curious how you're evaluating the brand support that you're putting behind that in light of the fewer bigger better strategy.
Well okay.
Basically Almay first of all we normally don't give details but to give you a feeling in terms of share position in the last four weeks we're substantially holding the same position as we had last year as much as I'm talking past four weeks last year four weeks.
So more or less we're in the same game and the same level.
This by itself is somewhat an achievement because Almay has been on a declining trend for a long time.
So to say that we're keeping at least for this phase one the brand somewhat stable.
So that clearly because of the incremental investment we put behind the brand it's an area where the return on investment is not the one we expected.
But we will continue to feed this investment for the foreseeable future and because we believe in the possibility of Almay to turn around.
It's a big asset in terms of revenue.
As you can imagine we don't have brand P&amp;Ls.
We don't share them.
But it's not so big in terms of profit.
So ultimately as we don't have that many assets we can definitely take the Almay challenge on and continue with it.
And it's not a liability for us to continue to support Almay and it's not representing the focus.
So we'll continue to fight which has become very competitive not just for Almay in general it's become very competitive because as I mentioned before the color cosmetic market particularly in the United States is very much effected by development of many value brands and many private labels.
So Almay is increasingly challenged but it's somewhat encouraging that we're holding position despite the significantly stronger competitive atmosphere offsetting.
I guess along those lines you mentioned I think at the outset that you might be investing alongside the CBB acquisition.
I was just curious if you could elaborate on that or maybe talk about the M&amp;A environment in general given how important scale might be given what's going on competitively.
Okay.
I'm not going to comment on CBB.
There's no need of doing so because there's nothing material to share yet.
We're obviously working as I mentioned before on acquiring new licenses and we like to follow a balanced portfolio.
So we're seeking both luxury brands as well as lifestyle and celebrity.
So as I said in my previous note when I have something to share I will.
And as you can imagine disclosing my plans can actually interfere with them and therefore sorry for not sharing.
Now as far as concerned the broader M&amp;A it makes the world more challenging and as I said last time we're ready.
We're competitive we have a strong pipeline and we're ready to fight it.
And as far as concerned our M&amp;A projects we won't disclose that either.
I regret that but it's appropriate for us not to do so.
Of course I just meant in general if you felt like you needed as a broader strategically to attain greater scale given that some of your competitors are scaling up.
The scale -- and this is my view at least the scale is in general you appreciate is important but it's also a liability because it creates tremendous complexity.
It's low down the organization it make them less entrepreneurial etcetera.\ I could go on and on.
In fact arguably for example P&amp;G that recently sold their assets.
They had scale.
They had the asset invested on it for years and years and years.
And yet they decided to divest it.
That's an example indeed that scale is not everything.
And it's also a matter of strategic focus and deciding where to play how to play et cetera et cetera.
Now in the specifics I believe that the fight in the business happens at brand level and category and brand level.
So what we need to have is scale at category and brand level and I very much believe in the concept of fewer bigger better which for us means that we have certain assets that are global priorities other that are in maintain mode and others that are reprioritize mode.
If and when one day we buy an asset or we buy something I will look at it like that.
I will look at it at the category and brand level because that's where the rubber hits the road.
Buying conglomerates of brands just for the sake of getting scale and then leaving the following two years just managing how to integrate them how to dispose of them how to -- it's not necessarily a winning move.
Now as far as I'm concerned I have already the challenge of rationalizing our portfolio that in terms of relative -- it's quite complex in relative terms to others and therefore I'm not eager to add fragmentation and complexity.
I more like the idea of adding fewer bigger better assets.
And I just mention this as a general conversation.
Okay? I'm not trying to imply anything.
Nor am I making any forward-looking statements.
You asked me to broadly comment what's going on in the industry and I did so.
Now I want to say that some companies that do these big acquisitions are very good at doing so.
So good luck to them and we don't hope anything but the best for everybody.
If I could just get one more question in I'm just curious how you're thinking about sell in for the coming year the coming sort of new planograms sets and how you're feeling about your shelf space in general and maybe if you had any commentary about changing supplier relationships from one of your largest U.S.
retailers? Look there is not much I can comment on this.
You're asking me forward-looking statements on my shelf? Let's say I don't see any dramatic or radical coming my way.
And as far as concerned the big supplier what do you refer to? Do you refer the consolidation of Walgreens and Rite-Aid? What are you referring to? I guess specifically I was thinking about Walmart and changes that they're asking from their suppliers if that would impact the timing or any shelf space at Walmart? At this stage I really have nothing material to report on that.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go next to Karru Martinson with Deutsche Bank.
Just got a follow up on that question.
In terms of the Rite-Aid-Walgreens merger I realize it's early but is there any kind of material difference between your shelf space and positioning at the two retail chains? We don't have to comment on that.
It's early for different reasons.
I just want some time to clarify the question but not necessarily to answer it.
And so basically we're in reasonable strong standing with both retailers.
I don't judge the difference of spending between the new retailers to be a liability for us but obviously I don't know the plans of Walgreens-Rite-Aid and therefore that is an element outside of our career.
But our priority based on our standing it's reasonably comparable and a lot will have to do with what they intend to do with the space and how they intend to rationalize it.
Okay.
When we look at the growth of value and private label brands the other factor we've been hearing a lot about is smaller niche brands on the margin taking share.
Do you see that as a challenge for the Almay brand? Or is that more of a competitor threat to the core Revlon? So in general it's not necessarily a challenge -- from a consumer standpoint it's not necessarily a challenge to the Almay brand because Almay doesn't have a value positioning as a positioning of high quality product.
I'm going to skip the marketing speech on Almay but from a consumer standpoint it's not a brand that's in an immediate price trade off.
So it's not more threatened than Revlon.
In that sense it's as threatened as Revlon.
That's not to say there's not a threat.
Because an increasing amount of consumers are focusing on niche value brands.
On the retailer side when the retailer needs space obviously when the retailer needs space they can always take a view they need to take the space from brand A and take it from brand B.
In that sense Almay is possibly more challenged than Revlon.
But I don't see anything materially coming our way as far as concern on shelf space reduction.
Not at least in the short term.
Our continued investment and effort behind Almay will help us minimize that risk that exists and is there i.e.
to lose space to other brands.
But not so much because they're in consumer tradeoff.
It's more because the trade reallocated the space by planograms? Or by redefining the planograms.
As far as is concerned these value brands value niche they're growing because they offer value and they offer value and I guess there are consumers that appreciate value above other elements above performance primary and secondary above convenience factor above the intangible that is built behind the brand.
And that is unfortunate because we make a tremendous effort to ensure the quality of our product to follow rules laws regulations.
We manufacture specifically Almay largely in the United States and very soon we will be able to announce something interesting about it.
We have done a lot of effort to bring manufacturing in-house in North Carolina and to really rely on local manufacturing.
And that comes with paying minimum wages that comes from following rules and regulations that some of our competitors are not -- don't have to follow.
So the playing field is not level in this sense.
And we hope that people will appreciate that not all products are created equal.
And we will continue with these resolve to produce high quality products that respond to consumer needs.
And yet it is definitely a challenge and something that in some cases also we will need the retailer to have a category management view to the business meaning the old-fashioned -- I know it's old-fashioned but old-fashioned category management was designed to develop the value of a category in front of a limited amount of consumer and consumption opportunities.
The development of value brands doesn't necessarily do so.
But that's not our choice and with have to live with it.
This last comment was more like to give you industry color and not so much a statement for our brands.
And we will take our next question from Arthur Roulac with Three Court.
My first question would be on advertising and promotion.
I know you said you were happy with the levels it's at today.
In the first quarter next year all else being equal should we expect the same level of promotion of fourth quarter versus last year and then going forward or should we expect two more increments? So we noted in our second quarter of 2015 earnings call to expect the brand support for the second half of 2015 to be in line with the 2014 level.
As the brand support was up in the third quarter consequently we expect Q4 brand support investment to be lower versus last year.
And because the statement we released previously remains accurate.
The reason why we invested in a different timeline is because of phasing of initiative and also because last year in Q4 we launched the Love Is On repositioning campaign that took -- let's say unusually seasonality in the typically investment flow that we follow.
So to say that Q4 is likely to be more moderate versus last year and I didn't say I'm happy with the level of investment.
I said that it's competitive.
And happiness is a different story.
For me it would be very desirable on a personal level to have a dominating level of investment but that's something that we eventually will get there sooner or later.
But for the time being we have to carefully play our best and our investment focusing on return because we're a leveraged organization that requires to focus cash flow and free cash flow and therefore we're reasonably conservative in this incremental efforts.
Now the XFX has been a disrupting factor for us and I say it's been because hopefully the storm is behind us but as you can imagine I don't want to make that statement because we don't control the exchange rate but if they stay more or less as they are right now the storm should be kind of behind.
And it's kind of a pity because it doesn't allow to see the real progress we've done.
XFX basis versus 2013 we have invested significantly more behind the brand more than $50 million more actually on a comparable basis and comparable FXF basis and yet we pay back that investment by delivering incremental comparable growth.
And not only we did that we generated incremental comparable profits.
So the plot has worked well from an operational standpoint.
Then when it comes down to a transaction effect and translation effect due to XFX that unfortunately doesn't show.
But you can see that better when you see that our competitors that have a strong international presence have declined and instead we're still making progress.
So all in all you're right in saying that our progress is not so visible because of these XFX factors.
Hopefully the exchange rates will remain at a certain level or eventually improve and we'll be able at that point if that happens to fuel more the growth rapidly and fuel the growth even more.
And that's it.
My next question would be from more of a capital structure and sort of prioritization of cash you're producing a lot of free cash flow obviously to be invested back in the business.
Is the plan -- I guess what would be the priority? Is that repaying debt? Is it bolt-on acquisitions? Is it PDD? A - Roberto Simon We're continuously defining and evaluating ways to create value for the company.
As you can image with this evaluation process we consider many different courses of action including potential business combination debt repayment debt refinancing and investment into the company's existing brands.
And we will go nest to Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
I had a follow up.
Inventory level was higher than it typically is in this quarter.
I'm wondering if that was a timing issue or if it's just given the new makeup of the business? It's accurate and we have a higher level of inventory than usual than last quarter.
That's driven by a couple of factors.
One definitely we have more assets because of the CBB assets that are fairly seasonal and they sell a lot in Q4 season normally and therefore we have a buildup of assets.
So there's definitely a CBD component.
Second driver of inventory increase is the increase in performance.
I want to remind you that in consumer business we have increased our performance and due to the fragmentation of the portfolio that leads to increased inventory.
And last but not least we wanted to make sure to keep good service level across our activity intense activity period.
And we've taken a conservative position in the level of inventory.
And we would hopefully balance that in the year to go and I'm expected to reduce -- I expect to reduce the inventory in Q4.
And then can you just talk about you view inventory in the channel now? In what sense? I guess how is inventory at the drug stores and the mass merchants today or even in the professional channel? Is it -- are we heavy on the inventory side? Does that inhibit any of the sell in as you go into the fourth quarter? Or is inventory generally clean? We have generally nothing special to report on that point.
We as a philosophy of the company and it's even introduced in our clear spelled out operating principle we really don't do loading.
And actually we in a company we have a philosophy that if people load and that's not considered business results then we don't reward it.
Eventually if loading practices happen we even go as far as terminating the people that drive them.
So in general I don't expect and I don't see an issue of having an unusual level of inventory.
Now said that the level of inventory in some of our categories is high and is high structurally because they are categories with low velocity particularly color cosmetics and therefore even when you have a limited amount of SKUs on an aggregate level multiply all SKUs by all stores it does represent a meaningful level of inventory.
Now it's a relative situation as opposed to an absolute in the sense that it doesn't to the best of my understanding it does not increase in any meaningful way and definitely not in a way as to be a concern to us right now.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back to Lorenzo Delpani for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for the call today and we'll see you next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Please standby we’re about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Revlon’s 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At the request of Revlon today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Siobhan Anderson Revlon Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer.
You may begin Ms.
Anderson.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining today’s call.
Earlier today we released our financial results for the year ended December 31 2015.
If you have not already received a copy of the earnings release you can obtain one on our website at revloninc.com.
On the call with me this morning are Lorenzo Delpani Revlon’s President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roberto Simon Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over to Lorenzo I would like to remind everyone of a few things.
First our discussion this morning might include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations.
Information on factors that could affect our actual results and cause them to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings including our 2016 Form 10-K which we filed earlier this morning.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements except for the company’s ongoing obligations under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
Next our remarks today will include a discussion of certain GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
The company has identified certain unusual items impacting the comparability of the company’s period over period results.
As a result of these unusual items the definition of adjusted EBITDA has changed from that used in prior periods.
The adjusted measures are defined in our earnings release and are also reconciled in the financial tables at the end of the release.
Our discussion this morning should not be copied or recorded.
And with that I will turn the call over to Lorenzo.
Good morning to all of you and thank you for joining our call today.
Overall 2015 ended with a very successful fourth quarter for both our Consumer and Professional segments.
Net sales were $521.9 million in Q4 2015 a growth of 4.2% or 9.8% on an XFX basis.
On a full-year basis the net sales were $1.91 billion in 2015 a decline of 1.4% yet a growth of 4.9% on an XFX basis.
Adjusted EBITDA was $125.6 million in Q4 2015 a growth of 16.4% or 21.8% on an XFX basis.
On a full-year basis adjusted EBITDA was $377.5 million in 2015 a growth of 3.4% or 7% on an XFX basis.
As reported net income was $24.8 million in Q4 2015 including the impact of $37.5 million of non-operating item net of taxes.
On a full-year basis as reported net income was $56.1 million in 2015 including the impact of $47.3 million of non-operating items net of taxes.
The non-operating item for both periods included a pension lump-sum settlement charge of $20.7 million and a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $9.7 million which was $6 million after-taxes.
Importantly excluding these non-operating items adjusted net income was $61.3 million in Q4 2015 an increase of $56 million and was $103 million in 2015 total year an increase of $43 million or 71.5%.
During 2015 the company has reinvigorated its key brands and increased our profitability.
At the same time we successfully integrated the Colomer business into the combined company and reduced our cost structure.
The company has built strong momentum.
We are in a more competitive position and we have more resources to invest in our brands.
I will now turn the call over to Roberto.
Thank you Lorenzo and good morning everyone.
We will now review our segment results.
In 2015 Consumer segment net sales were $1.41 billion.
On an XFX basis and excluding Venezuela Consumer net sales increased by 4.4% in 2015.
This increase was mainly driven by higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics Mitchum Revlon ColorSilk and Cutex partially offset by lower net sales of Almay.
Consumer segment profit was $360.2 million in 2015.
On an XFX basis and excluding Venezuela Consumer segment profit increased by 11.1% in 2015.
The increase is mainly due to higher gross profit as a result of the increase in net sales partially offset by $8.7 million of higher brand support for the company’s consumer brands.
In the Professional segment 2015 net sales were $471.1 million.
On an XFX basis Professional segment net sales increased 2.4%.
This increase is primarily due to higher net sales of American Crew Revlon Professional products and Creme of Nature partially offset by lower net sales of CND.
Professional segment profit was $103.9 million in 2015.
On an XFX basis Professional segment profit increased 2.7%.
The increase is mainly due to the increasing gross profit as a result of higher net sales partially offset by $5.1 million of higher brand support for the company’s professional brands.
Affecting the comparison 2014 included a favorable adjustment of $3.4 million related to a decrease in the inventory obsolescence reserve.
Excluding these on an XFX basis Professional segment profit would have increased by 6.1% in 2015.
Moving onto net sales by geography.
In 2015 net sales in the U.S.
were $1.04 billion or 2.1% higher than in 2014.
U.S.
net sales increased $33.4 million in the Consumer segment primarily driven by higher net sales or Revlon color cosmetics Mitchum and Revlon ColorSilk partially offset by lower net sales of Almay.
U.S.
net sales decreased $11.6 million in the Professional segment primarily due to lower net sales of CND nail products.
Moving onto international results.
In 2015 international net sales were $870.6 million.
On an XFX basis net sales were up 7.9%.
International net sales increased $20.6 million in the Consumer segment primarily due to higher net sales of Revlon color cosmetics and Mitchum.
International net sales also increased $23.7 million in the professional segment primarily due to higher net sales of American Crew and Revlon Professional.
From a geographical perspective the increase in the Consumer and Professional segment was throughout most of the company’s international region.
Additionally the other segment had net sales of $28.4 million in 2015 with no comparable net sales in 2014.
Excluding Venezuela international net sales increased 9% on an XFX basis.
Moving to total company results.
On an XFX basis adjusted EBITDA increased $25.4 million or 7%.
This increase was primarily due to higher gross profit in both the Consumer and Professional segment partially offset by $16.2 million of higher brand super [ph] expenses as well as higher general and administrative expenses.
Driving the increase in general and administrative expenses was $14.7 million of severance costs.
Adjusted net income increased $43.1 million or 71.5%.
This increase was primarily due to the growth in adjusted EBITDA as well as a $24.2 million decrease in the provision for income taxes in 2015.
The income tax provision decrease is mainly due to a net reduction of our valuation allowance in certain foreign jurisdictions in 2015 compared to the establishment of such valuation allowance in 2014.
Taking a look at liquidity as of December 31 2015 our unutilized borrowing capacity and cash on hand was $473.6 million.
This was made up of available cash of $307.4 million unavailable borrowing on our revolver of $166.2 million.
Now I will turn the call back over to Lorenzo.
Thank you Roberto.
As a final remark I also want to announce that I have informed the Board of my intention to step down as President and CEO effective March 1.
I do these for personal reasons.
It has been a pleasure and a privilege to leave this extraordinary company during a period of transformation and growth.
It has been my mission to continue Revlon industry leading commitment to quality and innovation and it is the Revlon team’s relentless drive toward those goals that has paved the way for our current and future success.
I want also to thank all my good friends and colleagues at Revlon and MacAndrews &amp; Forbes for their hard work and support and believe that to be staying on with organization as a member of Revlon Board and as an Advisor.
I also want to congratulate my good friend Gianni Pieraccioni on his well-deserved promotion to Revlon’s Chief Operating Officer.
I look forward to continuing my partnership with Revlon to grow the company.
I will now turn over the call to Siobhan.
Thank you Lorenzo.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator please prompt the participants for questions.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
I guess I wanted to off by wishing Lorenzo good luck and congratulations on all that you’ve achieved in the years that you are at Revlon.
Thank you.
Of course I guess along those lines I was curious if there are what are the plans to fill the CEO position at this point? And will you be assisting in that effort? And whether you could say if there is anything related to the MacAndrews &amp; Forbes filing regarding its foreign strategic options that maybe prompted this decision? Okay.
So I’m going to start breaking down into.
First of all I’m leaving for personal reasons and it has nothing to do with the announcement the MacAndrews &amp; Forbes has made.
And essentially I’ve been working in a workaholic fashion since I started when I was 21 nonstop.
I’ve gone through a very intense turnaround in The Colomer Group and then moved on integrating the company here.
And we have done a successful job of both integrating and rebuilding momentum at Revlon.
And I think I’ve completed this cycle and I want to take a break and focus on myself and my family and essentially engage new challenges in the future; that’s the reason why I’m leaving.
Now as far as concerned the new CEO the company expects to have an announcement soon and that’s basically where we stand.
Okay.
Can you talk about the process at all in terms of the strategic fixed points to your options and what kinds of things are being evaluated? We don’t comment on an announcement that we have not made and if you would have add anything material to release we would have.
And there’s nothing material that Revlon needs to release at this stage.
And the announcement is a MacAndrews announcement and we won’t comment on that.
Okay fair enough.
Just diving into the business I noticed in the fourth quarter international sales were up quite significantly.
Is there something regarding timing product launch or maybe distribution gains that you could speak to that maybe driving that? Yes so the question reflex a little bit of the misperception that is probably out there in the market; that we are kind of it said that we are flat in sales.
And indeed on as reported basis the company has been kind of flattish in the past quarters.
But on a XFX we have been growing quarter after quarter for a quite some time now we build strong momentum thanks to strategy value creation mainly we have increased prices we have increased margins and increased margin also for cost of goods improvement and then we obtained more resources which we reinvested back into the business.
In fact the brand support levels that which we support the business now are competitive we deem them to be competitive that was not the case in 2013 in 2013 they weren’t sufficient; they had strategy value creation created resources that we invested in the brand.
Investing behind our brands we have a focus strategy behind fuel bigger innovation as you did improvement in the results.
And that’s we have a good results I would say around it is difficult to give a number in specifics but approximately 80% of our business unit are clearly up.
And some are double digit versus the past thanks to this renewed investment and focus.
So what is driving that; in the Consumer business it’s driven by these are let’s say essentially investment increase and investment focus because it’s not just increase the fact that we have a launched less innovation and yet yielded more sales that may sound counterintuitive but I want to clarify that’s the reason of the fewer bigger strategies that we were launching.
So many things that was difficult to focus on any of them.
So we select our bet we focus on that on fewer initiatives and by doing so we get better results.
So that’s essentially what driving the Consumer business.
As far as concern the Professional in 2015 on a like-for-like basis okay excluding the XFX impact.
If this would be a company reporting in euro we wouldn’t have this strange misperception and storytelling.
So on a like-for-like basis the Professional business has done its best year ever internationally because Revlon Professional has built a strong momentum behind the launch of successful innovation like [indiscernible] color and American Crew has also posted double-digit growth internationally.
It’s due to increased investment and a sharper positioning.
Now to complete the picture also CND internationally has performed well.
Even if domestically CND has struggled to bit in the value market.
So all in all and I know it sounds like a long story.
And – but all in all the bottom line is on a like-for-like basis we have done – we have posted very very significant growth and that’s not the first quarter we do so has been a while.
Unfortunately we faced FX impact that was totally unprecedented and totally significant.
And that has basically also offset the perception we talked about.
I appreciate all that color.
For example this year the net sales FX impact is $121 million.
So you can appreciate that if we’re substantially flat but we have offset $121 million of FX impact.
And in EBITDA we are actually growing that the underlining fundamentals of the company are very solid.
Absolutely and I appreciate all that color.
I was – I should have been clearer and just saying that I was – the fourth quarter excluding FX international sales grew 20% and that seemed to be a little bit higher.
And maybe I can ask the question a little bit differently.
Do you think that your sell-through rates are consistent with the level of sales that you’ve reported on a XFX basis or is there any kind of timing between your distributions and what’s happening at the point-of-sale? No there’s no – there’s absolutely nothing to report in the sense.
In that sense I want to address indirectly.
It seems like you are asking if there has been any sort of loading practices.
Loading is forbidden in our operational practices.
We actually punish it and if someone does loading we actually fire them.
And we built business and for us business is a lot and so lean and I’m very comfortable that there’s not been any distribution or trade loading of any sort.
I wasn’t suggesting that I was just curious if there was any like product launch driven types of timing differences not any loading issues? The only thing that – it’s a small detail but for the sake of transparency that we need to call out but easy material is in Australia because we launched the SAP rollout.
We have anticipated a little bit of sales of approximately amount of sale.
But that’s just Australia and it’s very minor.
I appreciate that.
If I could ask one last question it sounded like you were comfortable with the level of advertising and brand support going forward that it would be roughly equal to 2015 levels.
Is there any timing on that? I seem to recall the first-half of this year being a little bit heavier than the second-half on a year-over-year basis just didn’t know if there was anything timing wise we should expect in terms of 2016? All right.
So basically let’s say that our level of investment is now deemed to be competitive and we are going to be more or less in line with last year.
As far as timing I don’t want to disclose that because it’s competitive – sensitive for competitive reason.
Okay.
And a very last housekeeping item is just do you have the restrictive payments capacity limitations handy with regards to either the bank debt or the bonds if not I can follow up? Yes we can follow up.
We can follow up.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Grant Jordan from Wells Fargo.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Also I’d like to say job well done as you’re leaving Lorenzo.
And I just wanted to follow-up a little bit around Kevin’s question on the international sales that’s been growing all year but particular strength here in the fourth quarter at almost 20% was that mainly taking share with an existing markets? Or did you have new distribution or new geographies you wanted to? Okay.
So on a broad stroke basis I would say we need to separate the story between Consumer and Pro.
So on Consumer I would say generally we’ve been taking share but as well as expanded distribution.
So your question is we have done both.
And in some cases we have by expanding distribution we expanded share.
So for example in Japan and Korea we have expanded distribution hence business and share.
So part of the strategy value creation fillers they rollout of our categories in all the geographies and last year we have a initiative the rollout for example of ColorSilk it’s our hair color business and we launched it in various markets and it had very very encouraging results.
And as well as reinvigorating as I mentioned before the support between our core category color cosmetics which has gone from let’s say being a little bit under invested to being properly invested and these has generated consumption pickup.
So and also worth mentioning another dimension we have a group they distribute our management business behind one person and not by regional way.
We centralized it and also our distributor business is because we now focus the business on building the sellout and not building the selling is being reactivated with a plan and investment and is showing very good momentum.
So that’s for consumer.
And as far as consumption pro.
and Revlon Professional I would say it’s essentially driven by innovation that work that we have done some very important re-launches like the re-launch of Revlonissimo hair color that has been very successful and American Crew by marketing plans and marketing focus and distribution also as function and CND has performed a bit better because of the investment levels at least internationally.
So you can appreciate that we did focus a lot on the international market hence with tireless trips and travels and the reason is because we add that to offset the FX.
And as I mentioned before and just to give you some perspective in 2003 when I started the euro is down 20% the Canadian dollar 22% Australian dollar 20% South African 30% Mexican Peso 20% Argentine Peso 40% plus I mean these are approximate numbers okay.
But since we bought Colomer since Revlon integrated with Colomer the footprint was no longer a U.S.
footprint.
Revlon was already international but it became even more global and therefore unfortunately more exposed to the FX impact.
And I would love that to be like some other French company reporting in Euro so that we wouldn’t have this misperception out there because instead of headwinds we would have add tailwinds in a very big way.
But nevertheless we created our own tailwinds creating momentum for the business and therefore offsetting largely offsetting in sales not completely but largely offsetting these headwinds and in the process improving the fundamentals of our brands of our business and we improved also our profitability.
So the headwinds could have caused also the client profitability instead there our work has been able to more than offset that.
And that’s why we are more profitable.
Okay that’s helpful and certainly the FX has been a very high hurdle for a number of years.
Obviously we don’t know which way currencies are going to go this year.
But based on current rates do you expect FX to be a headwind for Revlon in 2016? So as you know without this being a forward-looking statement because I don’t control the FX.
Okay.
If we would control the FX we would have another job.
And without doing that we expect at this rate if the current rate remains the same the headwind to be minor very very minor.
So maybe in the range of a little bit in Q1 and half of Q2 max but we deemed it to be minor okay? And yes that’s basically – the problem is that the volatility of the exchange rate is significant and we can’t really bank it.
Yes no question okay.
My last question it was a very helpful response.
But can you help us think through the gross margin rate change in Q4? It was down 300 basis points.
Like your commentary indicated that gross profit was up XFX for both.
If you could just tell us how much FX hurt the gross margin rate in Q4? That would be helpful to think through that.
Yes one second.
…impacts in the… Okay.
Go ahead.
Yes we have two impacts in the quarter.
One is the gross to net activity that during the first and nine months of the year was much lower than in 2014 and in the Q4 we had a significant increase in the gross to net allowances.
It was just a timing issue.
And the second one as I commented FX transactions that have impacted in the Q4 significantly those are the two main drivers.
Okay.
So just so I can make sure I understand that the gross to net..
Yes.
…you’re saying that the true-up through the first three quarters was underestimated? And so the fourth quarter there was a catch-up for the…? No.
Okay.
The timing of the activities on the gross to net activities on the trade in the Consumer business were lower in – than 2014 during the first three quarters of this year and in the Q4 2015 were higher than last year.
So a matter of activity at trade level.
To give you some color.
We launched last year in quarter four 2015 we have launched “The Love Is On” campaign.
So we focused a quite a bit resources in brand support and we were a bit I guess lower than usual in gross to net support which is trade activity FSI coupons and the likes.
And this year instead we had lower level of brand support below the line and then higher level of growth to net.
And that is because we among other things we ‘re being promotionally more active during the holiday period.
We have special kits and gifts that as a business that as you probably know if you don’t I’ll give you some color.
The beauty category in general becomes a very very seasonal and during – there’s a period of four or five weeks where it almost doubled.
And so in general the beauty category in the holiday period.
And traditionally we were not very active and this year we’ve been active and we’ve been active.
And that’s also one of the reason we gained a share during this period and we have now reasonably good share momentum.
Great.
Okay yes that piece of information is very helpful as we think about the margins.
Thank you.
But there was also a transactional impact on cost.
We have to make almost $3 million of FX.
In the quarter In the quarter almost $3 million And almost $12 million of gross to net activity.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go next to Carla Casella from JPMorgan.
Hi most of my questions have been answered.
But did you say we should look for permanent display is planning [ph] to say similar to this year in the year ahead or how are you looking at spending behind the brands either between permanent display versus consumer advertising? So we expect the investment brand support and in display to be compatible with the one that we had this year.
And that is an expectation to make this statement.
In reality also we are trying to become more efficient.
So what we would like to do as a company is to create a semi but spending less.
And in fact we have projects in place to become more efficient especially on the permanent display.
You asked permanent display there – a lot of that – it comes from procuring them and from third parties.
So we have projects in place to – we actually recruited even a specific person on that.
So that easily we create the same in market pressure but hopefully we’ll save some money.
But that’s more a qualitative indication on a quantitative indication I’ll say to you that that would be compatible because that’s a cat that does not been skinned yet.
And I didn’t mean to imply that we normally skin cats here but hopefully we said I would get a pass for it because… Okay that’s great.
And are you seeing much competition on that front.
Are your competitors changing the way they support brand either between permanent display spending or consumer advertising printer media? There’s nothing material really to report on this front right now.
It would be too long of an answer.
And I would need to go into details for our competitors and I don’t – and we don’t do that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next Arthur Roulac from Three Court.
Hi good morning and congratulations on some fine work this year gentlemen.
My first question is an easy one in the third quarter Q you guys called out sort of a new restructuring plan and I was wondering what the potential cost savings from that restructuring plan might be in 2016? So internally we refer to this project as a post global efficiency which was launched as [indiscernible] referred in Q3 2015 and we continue through the end of 2017.
The project is aimed to – at reducing headcount across several markets in an effort to drive organizational efficiencies.
We expect a total of approximately $10 million in one time cost and we expect to achieve a total of approximately $10 million to $15 million core reduction fully implemented by the end of 2018.
Got it.
And in the release you called out I guess in the fourth quarter there was higher cash compensation expense year-over-year.
Can you say what that was just from a comparability perspective for us? Can you repeat the question please? Sure.
I think in the press release I was reading out today that the cash compensation expense was higher I guess you were accruing for maybe more management bonuses in the fourth quarter of this year versus last year’s fourth quarter and I was wondering how much higher that was so we can have some comparability? It’s just a pure timing.
In 2014 we had a higher increase on the bonuses in the Q3 of 2014 and this year it happened in the Q4 2015.
So it’s purely a timing issue comparing Q4 last year with Q4 this year.
I need to say immaterial it’s an immaterial amount.
Got it.
And then I know I think you called out severance expense being higher in the fourth quarter and I know that’s not added back to EBITDA.
And I believe there was fairly significant severance expense for the entire year of 2015.
Can you let us know how much cash severance expense there was that sort of wasn’t added back to EBITDA in 2015? Yes it was significant and it was $14.7 million.
Now you can appreciate that every company has a number of people that is somewhat physiological and there’s always severance okay? And but this year in 2015 we started early on in the year executing what we call Renova project Renova.
And that Renova means an upgrade of talent.
So we’ve gone starting from the top two layers down and trying to replace underperformer with better performers.
And this exercise has been systematic in across all geography all functions and is led to an incremental $14.7 million of severances.
That – at this stage I cannot make a statement for $16 especially in light of the management changes that are coming you never know what the new position will be taken by new management.
But as far as we’re concerned with the existing visibility we can say that that amount was unusual and possibly nonrecurring.
I said that you appreciate that I’m not making a forward-looking statement because things can change with the new management.
So the $14.7 million has impacted our – as reported results and it’s one of those unusual item that we correct when we talked adjusted EBITDA.
It’s not you’re typically restructuring.
It’s not that you’re typically restructuring because you’re typically restructuring drives a saving and this doesn’t drive the savings.
It’s just a cost.
It’s just a cost and payback is an upgraded talent pool.
So you want to say something Roberto? No it’s fine.
Okay.
And then my next final question was the – I guess the pension you bought some people out and I haven’t had a chance to look at your 10-K that just came out.
But how much is that I mean do you see I guess as pension costs going forward? It doesn’t have any impact on the cash pension payment going forward.
Yes.
And then obviously I guess there’s going to be some sort of announcement coming up there’s a lot of moving parts but obviously the company Lorenzo you’ve done a great job say congratulations.
Sorry to see you go and then CFO is moving on as well you have a COO running the business.
I guess the idea is that some point fairly soon there’s going to be some sort of announcement with regard to what’s going on in the suite of the company? Yes okay.
As I mentioned before and we expect to have an announcement soon on the COO.
And subsequently the search of the CFO as well in advanced stage and we’ve identified several candidates which I believe that now will be assessed by the new management.
So all in all without giving a specific data I believe that real soon and I say soon address these announcements.
And in the meanwhile the organization is ewll covered.
We have a Gianni which is an extremely capable and talented manager running all the operation.
Siobhan leading all the accounting and finance at interim plus a very very strong financial controller we have for the Professional and Consumer division.
And this is the method of the soon okay? I don’t want to make a specific statement because I don’t control it.
So we realized that the timing is a little bit what it is but we think that this matter will be addressed shortly and therefore I wouldn’t see that as a concern.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
So thanks for the question.
And with this we conclude our call today.
Thanks a lot.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.