Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Mr.
Scott Fitterer Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Fitterer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's First Quarter Earnings Call.
I'm Scott Fitterer and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and James Bell Boeing's Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and James we'll take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release in our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this web presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Scott and good morning everybody.
Let me start today by addressing the evolving business environment followed by some thoughts on our performance during the quarter.
After that James will walk through our results and then we'd both be glad to take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
The global economy continues its transition to a sustained recovery despite some isolated regional uncertainties.
This economic expansion continues to fuel global air traffic growth which has moderated since re-attaining peak levels last year but is still increasing along expected long-term trends.
Utilization rates also continued to improve for both single-aisle and twin-aisle airplane categories.
Notwithstanding the recent elevated oil prices which we continue to monitor the current combination of strong economic fundamentals continued air traffic growth and increasing utilization is generating high demand for both growth and replacement airplanes.
Wide-body interest has been especially strong as highlighted by the dramatic increase in orders we have taken so far this year on the 777 46 to be exact with more expected to follow.
In both anticipation and response to this demand we previously announced a series of production rate increases across our product lines including the 787 ramp up these moves will increase our Commercial Airplane output by more than 40% during the next three years.
This represents a significant and sustained growth opportunity for our company.
We are working closely with our supplier partners to manage these moves to higher rates efficiently and effectively focusing not only on increasing capacity but also on improving quality reducing flow times and lowering costs.
On a related supply chain topic let me quickly touch on our assessment of the impact of the situation in Japan and the unrest in the Middle East.
These events in Japan have not had a significant impact on our operations.
Our major partners there are managing challenges with electric power availability and stressed infrastructure and transportation systems but they are generally performing well.
We have had no significant delays in parts deliveries.
Certain sub-tier suppliers did sustain damage during the events and we will continue to monitor that situation in the weeks ahead.
We've also closely monitored events in the Middle East but at this time don't expect a significant impact on our business.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security.
The business environment remains in flux due to the ongoing budget pressures in the United States and Europe and shifts in customer priorities.
Despite these environmental pressures the demand for Defense products and services remains high globally driven primarily by the need to modernize current capabilities to meet existing and future threats and upgrade or replace aging inventories.
Here in the U.S.
we were pleased with the outcome of the 2011 budget agreement as it included strong support for many of our key domestic programs and platforms from ground-based Midcourse Defense to multi-year procurement of F/A-18 Super Hornets and EA18 Growlers and important buys of B22s Apaches and Chinooks.
The fiscal year 2012 budget request continues support for these programs along with some of our targeted growth areas such as Cyber security and unmanned aerial systems.
The international Defense and Security market remains strong particularly in the Middle East and South Asia.
We continue to see demand for our proven and reliable platforms and services from Rotorcraft to tactical aircraft and the C-17.
Despite the Mid-east unrest I mentioned earlier sales campaigns to key customers in this area remain on track and the sale of C-17s to India is moving forward as well.
Notwithstanding pockets of uncertainty and U.S.
budget pressures the Commercial and Defense and Security markets we serve remain large and are growing in the aggregate.
Continued innovation strong execution across our production programs and our international presence are sources of strength in this environment.
We are making solid progress on the strategies we're pursuing.
Turning to the first quarter highlights on Slide 3.
We had good performance during the quarter with both of our businesses executing well on core operations and continued progress made on development programs.
Commercial Airplanes generated strong results on expected lower volumes.
The 737 and 777 production systems continued to improve productivity as both programs prepare to increase production rates.
Commercial Services also performed very well with double-digit revenue growth and margins.
Our commercial development programs are in the final phases of flight testing and both the 787 and 747-8 freighter are on track for first deliveries during the third quarter and mid-year respectively.
On the 87 we have completed nearly 95% of the flight test points for the Rolls-Royce engines and are nearly 75% complete with testing for the GE engines.
The significant high-risk test conditions have been retired.
The remaining flight test points consist primarily of function and reliability and ETOPS [extended-range twin-engine operation].
Our internal testing has validated the majority of the remaining flight test conditions and we are working closely with the FAA as these final test points are completed for certification.
Condition of assembly for the 787 continues to improve.
We are currently operating on a 2 per month production rate and final assembly and are preparing to increase to 2.5 per month later this year.
We have a deliberate and orderly ramp-up plan building to a 10-airplane per month production rate in late 2013.
Our internal and external partners are working to this plan and we are closely monitoring the production system health.
We're also focused on managing the change incorporation process on airplanes already built.
We have dedicated resources in place and are using a modified production line approach to address this statement of work.
As we've noted previously on these calls the delivery schedule is composed of a mix of airplanes coming off the production line and airplanes completing the change incorporation process.
The 747-8 test program is approximately 75% complete including the recently completed flight load survey testing and flutter certification.
Remaining test conditions are primarily related to stability and control and function and reliability.
On March 20 the 747-8 Intercontinental made its first flight.
First delivery of the Intercontinental is still planned for the end of the year.
As the 747-8 prepares to enter service we're seeing a renewed interest in this efficient and highly capable airplane.
Commercial Airplanes total backlog remains large at $263 billion and includes $15 billion of net orders for the quarter.
Defense Space &amp; Security delivered solid operating margins for the quarter across its well-balanced Defense portfolio.
This business delivered 28 Military Aircraft completed the first flight of the F-15 Radar Modernization Program and successfully completed full-sale static testing of the PA Poseidon airframe.
A key highlight during the quarter was winning the U.S.
Air Force tanker program.
This contract calls for the design development manufacture and delivery of the initial combat-ready tankers.
Based on the proven 767 Commercial Airplane the KC-46A Tanker is a multi-mission aircraft updated with the latest and most advanced technology and capable of meeting or exceeding the Air Force's needs for transport of fuel cargo and passengers.
The tankers will be built in Everett where an in-line production process will ensure the best solution for the Air Force and the taxpayer.
Final militarization of the development airplanes will be completed in Wichita where delivery to the Air Force will take place.
This contract win represents our ability to leverage the best of Boeing and bring integrated solutions to meet the needs of our customers.
We have more than 60 years of experience developing manufacturing and supporting tankers for America's war fighters and we look forward to continuing this relationship.
The current Defense environment will continue to provide challenges to be sure.
But we remain intensely focused on executing and meeting the enduring needs of our customers with a balanced portfolio of system solutions and capabilities.
Our total company backlog of $329 billion provides the foundation for significant growth potential and we continue to focus on improving productivity and competitiveness throughout our business.
Now over to James who will discuss the first quarter results and our outlook.
James? Thank you Jim and good morning.
I'll begin with our first quarter results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the quarter was $14.9 billion down slightly from last year driven by anticipated lower Commercial Airplane deliveries and model mix.
Next net earnings were $0.78 per share up from $0.70 per share last year.
Operating margins of 6.7% reflect strong performance across our core businesses on the expected lower volume and higher pension expense.
The prior year included a $0.20 per share tax charge due to healthcare legislation.
Now let's go to Slide 5 and discuss our Commercial Airplane business.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes’ first quarter revenue was $7.1 billion down from last year's reflecting the anticipated lower 777 airplane deliveries partially offset by higher services revenue.
Commercial operating margins were 7.2% down from a year ago reflecting the lower deliveries and higher research and development expenses.
This was partially offset by continued strong performance and services and production programs.
During the quarter we extended the accounting quantities on the 737 by 600 units and on the 777 by 50 units.
The financial impact of these extensions in the quarter was not significant as volume benefits are balanced with an anticipated competitive pricing environment.
Gross inventories for the company now include $14.5 billion related to the 787 work in process supplier advances tooling and other non-recurring costs an increase of approximately $1.6 billion during the quarter.
We expect the inventory balance to continue to grow as we ramp up production but the rate of growth will moderate as deliveries are made.
We continue to make progress with our 787 suppliers reaching fair and equitable settlements on their assertions.
We anticipate being substantially complete with supplier negotiations by the end of this year.
Customer discussions are also ongoing.
To date settlements with our suppliers and customers are tracking to expectations.
Commercial Airplanes won 153 gross orders during the quarter including ninety eight 737s and forty six 777s.
We also had 47 cancellations during the quarter primarily due to Dubai Aerospace Enterprises canceling thirty-two 737s.
The commercial backlog remains strong with over 3 400 airplanes.
Now let's move to Slide 6 to our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported first quarter revenues of $7.6 billion with operating margins of 8.8% in line with a year ago reflecting strong performance across this production programs.
Boeing Military Aircraft revenues were up over last year with margins of 10.9% reflecting improved performance and mix in global strike programs and lower R&amp;D.
Network and Space Systems revenues were flat with the prior year and margins were 6.1% on less favorable mix and timing of earnings in our satellite programs.
Global Services and Support revenue decreased from the prior year as our work on the KC-10 support program was completed last year.
Operating margins decreased to 8.5% reflecting lower volumes and charges recorded during the quarter on certain maintenance contracts.
Defense Space &amp; Security maintained a solid backlog of $66 billion.
In addition to the KC-46A Tanker order which was recognized across both major businesses other new orders included the U.S.
Navy P8-8 low-rate initial production contract U.S.
Air Force and Navy Joint Direct Attack munitions contracts and the U.S.
Air Force performance-based logistics contracts.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 and discuss our other businesses.
Boeing capital continues to perform well as it reported $52 million of pretax earning in the quarter.
The portfolio balance at quarter end was $4.5 billion down on normal runoff and modest asset sales with no volume for new airplanes.
Other segment expenses were $22 million while unallocated expenses were $210 million up from last year driven by higher pension expense.
Now let's talk cash flow on Slide 8.
During the quarter we used $1 billion of operating cash flow reflecting the lower commercial deliveries and our continued investment in development programs.
Cash flows will improve over the course of the year as commercial deliveries increase and R&amp;D expenditures decrease.
Now let's go to Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $7.8 billion in cash and marketable securities.
Our cash and debt balances reflect the first quarter repayment of $786 million of Boeing capital debt.
Slide 10 and our outlook.
We are maintaining our earnings per share guidance at between $3.80 and $4 per share and our commercial deliveries forecast at between 485 and 500 airplanes.
Our forecast continues to include a combined 25-to-40 787s and 747-8 deliveries split roughly equally between the two programs.
Revenue earnings and cash flow will be weighted towards the second half of the year as we begin 787 and 747-8 deliveries and reduced R&amp;D spending.
We expect Other segment expense for the year to be approximately $250 million and unallocated expenses to be about $800 million.
Total pension expense is expected to be $1.8 billion with $1.5 billion recognized at the businesses and $300 million in unallocated expenses.
The effective tax rate for the year is expected to be approximately 34%.
Our financial outlook reflects solid operating performance on our production and our service programs higher pension expense planned deliveries on development programs and the current Defense contracting environment Now I'll turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jim? Thank you James.
I think it's fair to say that looking ahead we will have the largest growth opportunity in our industry.
With significant planned increases in Commercial Airplane production rates a strengthened base of Defense Space &amp; Security development and production programs and a portfolio of products and services that is unmatched in the capability and value they bring to our customers.
As an enterprise we are optimistic about the future sharply focused on the work at hand and determined to succeed.
With that we would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I've got a question on the 737 and my understanding has been that you're still looking at an all-new airplane but re-engining remains an option.
And can you just update us on that strategy? And I'd include when a decision might come when the timing of a new program if you did it would materially impact R&amp;D and then any implications for your rate increase plans potentially on the 737? Doug I can give you our current thinking which is largely unchanged I think from the last time we discussed it.
By the end of this year we should have a sharper view of new airplane versus re-engine.
As you know most of the data and customer feedback is suggesting to us that the new airplane option is the most favorable.
But we'll get to that decision on a timely basis.
We're at 2019-2020 that's the timeframe that the market seems to want this new airplane and where we can deliver technologies that can make a meaningful difference.
We see a plane that will be an orderly transition.
The heart of the market is an orderly transition from the heart of the market today maybe a slight upgrading in terms of capacity of the airplane.
But the real story about the airplane will be much more economical much more efficient for customers to use.
That's what that market segment needs and we're in the definition process there.
As we've had historically we are ramping up production rates on the current airplane which by the way we are improving significantly as we go along.
I mean we have plans to upgrade the capability.
Airbus hopes to sort of close the gap that they've got with us on cash cash-on-cash cost with their re-engining and we hope to stay out ahead of that gap-closing activity with some of our spiraling-in on the current airplane.
So we're not standing still over the next 9 years at all.
And so we think there'll be a steady drumbeat of improvement culminating with the new airplane toward the end of the decade.
That's the current thinking to be validated.
Re-engining option is still being looked at but I'd be less than candid if I didn't say the leader in the clubhouse is the all-new airplane.
Inc.</strong> And you don't see any implications now of the A320 NEO either on pricing or on your decisions for rates say 2015 '16 '17? I don't think so.
I mean I think part of the judgment we have to make Doug is that the NEO will not seriously erode our customer base if there's a new airplane out there three or four years after they introduce a re-engine.
And part of the judgment is deciding that that's true.
I think my personal view is that we're not going to lose customers for a few years with a significantly better airplane in the offing and a continually improved airplane in their fleet today.
So just to jump to a new aircraft engine type I mean that doesn't make sense if you're an operator.
But that's the judgment we have to validate as we go through this.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
My question is on the 787 and the maintenance of the 12-to-20 deliveries roughly that you expect to make this year.
There have been a number of press articles recently pointing to problems specifically with some of the fasteners of course that's been going on for quite some time.
And late last year there was talk about over 100 000 tasks remaining in terms of rework.
So I guess if you could maybe address a couple of things.
One is the conference confidence level in that 12-to-20 units; Secondly what metrics specifically you're tracking on the rework; And third maybe just a little color on how many of the 12-to-20 are from the 30 aircraft or so that are in partial stages of completion and how many are yet still to come off the line over the remainder of this year? If I forget something I'm sure you'll remind me.
I will.
Listen we are nearly nearing the end of flight tests and save any discovery which we don't see happening okay because we're largely through it we're flying for score to complete it now we are confident very confident in delivering the airplanes that we've discussed.
These deliveries will -- and by the way the fastener activity and rework that’s going on is as planned and the press reports you're seeing describe things that we have planned on doing is part of the plan underlying our guidance nothing new as we look at it.
But keep in mind that these planes as we begin initial deliveries this year and into next it will be a mix of planes that have been in the factory for a while and newer planes that have arrived more recently that have a far better condition of assembly.
So I think -- I can understand how some press reports would come out on some plane that is going to be delayed further than originally planned and replaced by a newer airplane.
I could see how people might feel that that somehow represents a delay in the program.
These are things that we've all taken into account and are part of the plan so remain very confident on our delivery guidance.
The EME solution is part of the plan ready to go.
And the current production activities also are as planned notwithstanding that there is a significant amount of rework particularly on the earlier airplanes but we think we have the scope well-defined.
Jim what number do you focus on each day or each week when you get your ports on this topic? Because this is not a big deal necessarily for earnings but a huge issue for cash flow.
So what do you look for? Is it number of tasks remaining? Is it individual status reports and individual aircraft? What are you focused on? Well I think there's two buckets of focus.
One is condition of assembly which is -- it improves literally on every airplane that is assembled and final air -- and condition of assembly tells you how quickly you can turn the airplanes that have come in lately okay? The latter half of the group that's out there and that is on plan.
And then the other is the newer airplanes that require more rework we have literally set up a second production area with stations where we standardize work on each of the airplanes.
And so how those planes move through this secondary factory is another metric to see how we're doing.
It's not a big scrabble where we have a job shop where people are running from one airplane and running to another airplane trying to read engineering drawings figure it out.
We have a systematized standardized approach that has been set up.
So tracking just as you would through any sub-factory tracking the newer airplanes through there is the second metric that's important.
Our next question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Kind of back on the 787.
Jim how do we think about the profitability of this airplane this program? Shorter-term medium-term longer-term from the context of all the delays all the rework how do we think about when the Boeing Company actually breaks even on it? How do we think about that initial block size? When do we learn that? Investors I think need a framework on how to think about that.
Well the initial block size will be discussed at entry into service and we're going through that.
James and his team are going through that right now as we speak.
There is very strong demand for this airplane and so the real story here is we got the airplane right despite some of the ramp-up difficulties that we've gone through which have added significant cost as you know as we worked through it.
Now obviously whatever production quantity we decide on and it will be the result of the process we use always when we introduce new airplanes the profitability will not be high at the beginning.
And it's I think however there is significant as there has been on every new airplane we have ever built there are significant opportunities to increase the profitability of it and we are focused on it.
And they relate to a series of productivity and factory efforts and working with our suppliers and it relates to model mix pricing model introduction down the line.
We're looking at a new model or two as alternatives beyond where we are now to be discussed later.
But these are the levers we tend to pull and I think it will be aided by the fact that this is an incredibly productive machine for our customers.
I mean the quantum leap in productivity that these customers will be able to get with these airplanes are going to make the pricing environment once this plane’s in service proving it so more robust and easier to sustain.
So pricing will also strengthen.
So it's hard for me to give you exactly the timing of all this.
But every airplane program we've ever had goes through this transition.
As a follow on to that just reading between the lines of what you said when we think about those 850-some odd airplanes that are in backlog today how many of those actually do you think will be delivered as 787-8s versus 9s or some later model to be announced? Well right now it's in the 50-50 range.
I don't have that number here in front of me.
I think it's hard to predict at this stage where that mix will go.
You look historically the mix on this kind of a wide-body airplane tends to be biased over time to the longer-range versions.
But this will depend on the needs of our customers.
The longer-range versions by the way in all likelihood will be more profitable for us.
Our next question is from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Back to the product evolution question for a moment.
Could you talk about the possibility of a hybrid strategy here? Jim Albaugh made some comments that I found interesting at the ISTAT Conference in March in Phoenix.
And at the same time he talked about seeing 737 700 produced for another 15 years yet you also talked about the commitment or the bias toward a clean sheet which you just referenced.
So could we see a 737 inhabit the below 150 space and compete perhaps with the lower end of the market on price? It's obviously very profitable mature airplane.
And then simultaneously maybe you do a 757-type aircraft for the above-150 space.
I think we in all likelihood will be addressing what I termed a minute ago "the heart of the market" first which is not to say that we will leave the 57 space unaddressed at all because it's a legitimate market segment that we can participate in.
But I think the heart of the market and that tends to be in the 145-to-175 185 range in there  is -- and we haven't sorted it out totally is in all likelihood where we'll start.
Now as I mentioned before we are continually improving the current 737 and how certain sizes are feathered in first and the complimentary sizes are allowed to go a little longer on the NG we've got to sort that out.
But these are the answers that we're trying to figure out.
And while we all have biases we'll let the data and our customers tell us exactly how to do this and you'll hear more from us at the end of the year.
Okay.
As a follow up James given any various scenario that we could contemplate here whether it's a hybrid strategy or it's a focus on the 777 refresh perhaps of the 787-10 at the low end or what Jim just talked about with the various narrow bodies what range of R&amp;D profile would you see? And under any scenario would it be lower than what we've seen with the two wide-body programs out there today? Under every scenario it should be lower.
And can you quantify the magnitude? No I would not until we understand exactly what we're going go do.
But I think you got to look at we've got two major development programs that we have in development over the last several years and if you look at the peak R&amp;D spending we'll use the same model on the new airplane as we've used on the 87.
So you won't see much difference in terms of how we distribute the cost.
But the fact of the matter is we've been working two major development programs and we've had a lot of issues on them.
So we wouldn't anticipate in the new program replicating those same issues.
And so you can think your way through that the R&amp;D spend at the height would be lower even on a new program whether it be re-engined or whether it be a new airplane because we're only going to do one of those programs one at a time.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Question on 777.
You're running close to four years of production in backlog.
You've had this strategy to build backlog which clearly paid off for you on the way down.
Can you talk about how you're now thinking about the balance of that strategy versus share gain on 777 just given the window of competitive position you're looking to enjoy the next few years versus Airbus there? And then what those thoughts mean about rate on that program? Yes.
I mean I think as you know we're taking up rate a couple of times.
There is a bias to even go beyond that given the backlog and the demand we're seeing in our customers' space.
But you're asking the right question I think we will take a balanced view of the grab market share versus build a backlog for security.
It'll be probably a little more bias toward taking share than backlog for security.
As you pointed out I think it's a correct observation that perhaps we're a little bias toward worshipping backlog historically.
I think we're mindful of a backlog and its importance.
But we agree that we have a significant take-share opportunity with the 777 over the intermediate-term and we won't let that opportunity go.
The past 5 to 10 years the window of the backlog to sales number or years in production was kind of 3 to 5.
Is there a range your target on that moving forward or is it more kind of a case-by-case thing that you think about? Like I say the bias is toward taking share a little bit okay? But you've always got to be mindful of the healthier supply chain you've got to be mindful of your own capacity constraints quality so there's a lot of things the mix of customers.
All taken into account I think you'll see a lot of more of a take-share headset from us.
And so just one more quick follow-up to that.
The seven-a-month move back from five was originally early '12 and then accelerated to mid-'11.
Can you accelerate the 8.3 that's now scheduled for '13 to sometime into '12? Or does the supply chain sort of scare you there? And then what is the thinking of potentially eventually getting to '10? Well I think as it stands right now accelerating it significantly would create risk okay? It's not as if we're not asking the question.
But right now we’re about we're about where we want to be.
And significant acceleration and the judgment of Jim Albaugh and I agree would present risk.
And we're looking hard as you imply with your question we’re looking hard at going beyond the 8.3 and we'll be in a position to discuss that going forward this year.
Got it.
And we'll go to Jill Campbell with Barclays Capital.
It's actually Carter Copeland and Jill Campbell.
Just a quick question on the commentary around an anticipated competitive pricing environment.
I wondered if you might elaborate on this a bit.
It doesn't seem like the time and cycle where we'd be seeing pricing pressure and Airbus is guiding to improving prices each year.
So if there isn't a lot of competition from the NEO as you suggested in your answer to Doug's question how much of this may be related to giving customers attractively priced aircraft in lieu of liquidated damages on the 87? How much of it is the share gain you alluded to in Noah's question? Why is it that we should be thinking about pricing pressures we don't see at Airbus? I'm not sure I specifically made a...
I did.
Did James make a comment? Let me answer that Joe.
A couple of things.
First and foremost we're looking at the 37 and the 777 both are mature programs producing good margins.
We think the extension to the order base quite frankly allows us to continue to extend getting those good margins year-over-year.
There will be competitive pressure to maintain selling those airplanes all of those that are ordered the extensions aren't sold today some are and some are sold to some of our favorite customers.
And that's what we're just doing and as we are able over time with the same volume to produce more productivity it will show up in those margins in subsequent periods.
But right now we think it's appropriate to have it balanced at the current high margins that both of those programs are producing.
It sounds like you're saying customer mix is a big part of this? I think that that’s some of it.
Because as you know we do have some competitive pricing for some customers other than -- and then also all of them aren't sold.
So we don't know what's going to be out there just yet but we think that the margins that -- on those airplanes today are so high if we can just continue them we'll be happy for an extended period of time.
But getting to your question on the -- looking at it more from the environment I don't think we see a world where pricing is going to head the way it did in the late '90s early 2000s where just massive competition on every deal and price deterioration significant across the industry.
I'm not sure we see that.
On the other hand we don't see this wonderful world where we're going to be able to raise price everywhere either.
I think we see a pretty even environment with as James says a lot of smart strategy around customer and around product is going to produce an environment where we can hold on to our margins.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Jim you kind of led into my margin question very handily.
We look at the commercial margins excluding R&amp;D and they're essentially flat year-on-year.
And then if we look at Defense and Space it looked like a cleaner quarter.
Could you address some of these process changes you seem to be undertaking to maybe get a little bit more consistency despite pushing the envelope in a number of areas? Yes.
I mean I think in the Defense world we have had to outrun a lot of risk over the last few years on some fixed-priced development programs and a lot of that risk is now getting wrung out and it took some time.
AWC International Tanker Howard you know the list and I think we do have the opportunity to be in a steadier state there.
Obviously in Commercial Airplanes I mean we have gone through two very difficult development programs simultaneously that had a financial impact on our company and we are hopeful of getting through that into an environment with lower R&amp;D and evening out production of new airplanes and harvesting rate increases on existing airplanes.
I meant it when I said in my comments that we have the single-biggest opportunity in this industry with new technology that our competitor has difficulty matching that's the 87 and the 47-8 and in-demand airplanes that satisfy customers and produce very high margins: 37 777 and a steadier state in BDS and a big international opportunity in BDS.
And so we've got an environment where -- we live in an industry which is not totally predictable Howard in case you haven't noticed.
But we have a little more visibility operationally now than we had staring at the pile of work three years ago.
Inc.</strong> And then just on that last thing.
I mean R&amp;D was up sharply and you've sort of indicated where it's going to be.
How do you feel today about that profile? And I mean at some point you'll have to address if you continue to do this well your guidance? James go ahead.
You take that one.
So the R&amp;D was up on the Commercial Airplanes this quarter it was down in BDS.
So we're pretty flat quarter-over-quarter at the company level Howard.
Clearly when we talked in the fourth quarter I indicated then that we thought we'd get about 15% of the operating results in this quarter.
We've clearly done better than that with about 20% of them.
We obviously are static by having a good start to the year.
But I don't want to lose sight of the fact that we still have two major development programs that we need to deliver on mid-year and third quarter.
And so I'm obviously cautious about and aware of that Howard and so I would look at in second quarter barring any developmental issues arising on the flight test and as we move towards the completion of certification we’d have a lot more insight as to what improvements we saw in first quarter will be sustainable throughout the course of the year.
And next we go to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> James could you comment were period expenses at BCAG up year-over-year? And what items were in that R&amp;D? Were there any kind of supply or settlement items in your R&amp;D in the quarter? Yes.
Most of it is the R&amp;D and it's just the effort that we're applying on getting through the certification testing on both programs.
There's nothing special in there like the supplier payments we saw in fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> And so were the period expenses up in the quarter? I think one point you said they were likely to be and are there likely to build as we go through the year? And also is that R&amp;D.
.
.
Yes some of it is R&amp;D and probably some of the fleet support effort as well and that will build over the course of the year as we get closer to the entry in  service on the 787.
And we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I had a question on the unit margins in BCA that you've posted about 5.4%.
And that's I guess before we even start to see the low-to-no margin 47 and 87's flow out through the year.
So can you just talk about what we might see from a unit margin basis in BCA relative to the 7.5% to 8.5% that you're showing us on a program-accounting basis.
I take it will -- what we're seeing is that unit and program margins are really pretty close.
This quarter it was principally mix customer mix and so pricing nothing to do with the cost line.
As we get to the end of the year though and we start delivering 87s and 47 you'll see a departure in unit margins will be a lot lower than program margins because of those deliveries.
LLC</strong> And then just to follow-up on the R&amp;D question.
So when you look at the $3.7 billion to $3.9 billion guidance for this year relative to the first quarter is it BCA where we'll start to see it reduce? Because you're obviously running at a higher rate than that or do we see something on Defense as well? Absolutely.
After the two airplanes are certified we expect to see the R&amp;D spend drop in the latter half of the year.
And next we'll go to Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Jim or James I wonder if you’d comment on the 737 order environment versus the A320 NEO? And whether you see any opportunity to further raise production beyond 2013? Well the order environment is robust.
Yes there is a bias toward raising production rates even higher than we've announced.
But we have not yet finally answered that question yet.
I think the NEO has not to date had a significant impact on our customer base.
I think it seems to have done a good job fending off the Canadians in the Airbus customer base I think it's fair to say.
And I think the Airbus has upgraded some of their order book to the NEO.
But we still see the same opportunity keeping in mind that the NEO was all about closing a gap they had with us and we're going to further extend our capability.
We're investing and extending the current capability as well as taking a hard look at the new airplane.
So yes I think the quick answer to your question is robust order book still see an opportunity to raise.
We'll figure it out as we go along.
LLC</strong> That's great.
Yes.
And we'll go to David Strauss of UBS.
Back on 787 and the rework issue aircraft that have recently come off the line or are currently on the line are those airplanes also going to have to have rework done? And how does that compare to aircraft that came off the line say three six months ago? And then in terms of the bottleneck on the rework side is it the sheer number of jobs that have to be done? Or are there specific items that are challenging and if so what are those items? The amount of rework is decreasing dramatically with each new airplane that comes in and that's my condition of assembly comment which is that our supplier partners have got all their work completed before it gets to us so we don't have to do it.
And also a dramatically decreased amount of engineering change coming out of flight test as we near the end of it.
So the newer airplanes orders of magnitude less work.
The earlier airplanes where a lot of work has to be done the work scope is understood.
There is a lot of work to do on some of them.
We've set up a factory-within-a-factory to get it done.
We understand the work statement.
There is no mystery about what has to be done.
It's a matter of time and effort and it's been thought about before we've offered guidance.
But there aren't a couple specific items whether it be fasteners or rewiring that you could point to that are the big challenges? No.
None of the work has yet to be figured out if that's sort of the gist of your question.
I mean I think we understand the work statement.
We understand the fix we understand the workaround we understand the change that has to be made.
It's a matter of scheduling it and getting it done.
The next question is from Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Going to get into some details on that Network and Support systems.
Now you mentioned mix and timing on satellites.
Can you give us more details on how we should think about improvements over the coming quarters? And also give us some color on what the charges were on the maintenance contract and support? So on the satellite we booked back the revenues on milestones.
So some of the milestones slipped out.
So that's sort of the timing issue and we'll pick up the recognition of that over the course of the year Heidi.
On the two maintenance contracts we talked about we're on the front end of those contracts and so we've had some issues in absolutely performing the work.
It has a sort of an integrated logistics feel to it that you have to have availability and we had some aggressive requirements on the front end that we didn't quite get the way we wanted to early on but we will get there.
And on the others it's more of a mod contract and we're just starting it up.
So again some issues on the front end but we think we worked our way through them.
And so both of those programs will smooth out over time.
So we'll see a sequential improvement going here in both of those divisions? Exactly.
And then a follow up.
You talked about unit margins in Commercial being lower from program as we head into this year? How should we think about that James as we get into the third and fourth quarter? I mean does it stay profitable breakeven does it potentially go negative on unit? Unit goes down dramatically because of the 87s and 47s.
And so I don't know if it's negative but it surely -- it probably will be.
In fact I think they will be.
It's just going to be dramatic because as you know we will be booking the costs associated with the early lots against the revenues on a unit basis so it gets down pretty significant.
That's helpful.
Because I was thinking it might be negative so that's good to know.
It is going to be very negative by year-end.
And next we'll go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
I just had a question for you Jim on the dynamic environment for fuel and what you're having in terms of conversations with customers in terms of pulling in deliveries pushing out deliveries and kind of the balance that you're seeing between those conversations? I think the balance favors pulling in finding room in our skyline.
In other words handling demand which is not to say that some people aren't pushing us to send them airplanes a little later others are asking -- I would characterize it as kind of normal conversations in a slightly capacity-constrained environment.
I mean I think that's the way I'd characterize it nothing dramatically abnormal.
Anything regionally specific you'd put in there? In the U.S.
in particular? I think the U.S.
significant -- I mean there is still strong demand for narrow bodies in particular but no I would -- I'd say steady demand from the U.S.
carriers.
I think the more successful of the carriers are probably pushing us to move orders up on balance? Okay fair enough.
Sure.
Our next question is from Troy Lahr with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm hoping if you can fill in the gaps a little bit between on the 787 production when you're talking about going from 2 2.5 to getting up to 10 by 2013.
I mean that kind of the ramp up heavily weighted towards back half 2012 and then 2013? Or should it be a pretty steady ramp up? Can you maybe just help us understand that? Yes.
I mean I think I would -- without trying to put too fine a point I would characterize it as a couple of points along the way that would -- when you connect all the dots the ramp would be pretty smooth.
But we're talking about late '13 to get to 10.
And you're right that is a significant challenge but our partners are positioned to do it and we have the capacity and the manning to do it as well.
And the key to this whole thing is condition of assembly healing up coming into our factories.
And that looks like it is on track.
That's the key.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So when you talk about a couple of points are you talking about rate jumps? So you might have two to three rate jumps to get up to the 10? Or is it going to be two to three to four to five kind of going that way? No no.
It will be -- this would sort of get me into guidance for periods that we haven't talked about.
So I don't want to give you too much granularity but it's -- we'll be in a better position to talk about it when we go in to EIS.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
That will be from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Just a quick question to revisit Defense margins.
You briefly described them in response to an earlier question as perhaps being stable at this point.
However I was wondering if you could comment on where you might see these in a couple of years given the contracts that you have signed recently and the projected growth that you might see in international markets? Just where we've guided you high single-digits is where we expect it to be taking into consideration the contracting environment we're seeing with the U.S.
government and somewhat helped by where we believe as we capture opportunities in the international market.
And ladies and gentlemen that completes the analysts' question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now return you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We'll continue with the questions for Jim and James.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And first we'll go to line of Susanna Ray with Bloomberg.
Jim you spoke of couple of times today about making a decision or giving more clarity at the end of the year on narrow-body.
And I'm wondering if that indicates that you're pushing the decision-making back from mid-year? And I'm also wondering I guess what the hold up is or what it is that you're deciding if it's a more technology or market strategy-related or what exactly? No I'm not trying to signal any change here Susanna.
I mean I think this is the year where we've got to harden up our plans to give our customers and our suppliers the direction they need.
And this is all during 2011 my by-year-end comment wasn't meant to suggest 12/31.
It was meant to suggest that we're going to sort through it this year.
And it's all consistent with making a decision on the re-engine yes or no and timing to meet Airbus' timing if we decide to do that or meet the 2019 2020 with a new airplane.
So I'm not trying to signal any change in our decision making.
Okay.
And then can you just answer are you more looking at technology or market strategy or what are the final choices that you're making right now? I think it's all of the above.
These are integrated decisions where you need to confirm technical readiness you need to confirm market demand and make sure that your major customers are with you as you make this decision.
And these are iterative processes.
You need to make sure that your supply base can handle it.
And I wish it was just one conversation with everybody and then you decide.
That's not just the way it works in this business.
These are very complicated integrated systems so it takes time.
And next we'll go to the line of Christopher Hinton with MarketWatch.
I think you said earlier that the NEO so far has not been impacting 737 demand.
I wonder if you could just talk a little bit more about why that is.
And is this working on the assumption that you might be redesigning the 737 assumption on the customers' part that you might redesign the 737? Yes.
I mean you'd have to ask them specifically.
I'm just observing that we haven't seen any switch of our current customer base which is large and deep.
I haven't seen any switch to the NEO haven't seen any serious conversations yet about switching to the NEO and haven't seen any erosion in our backlog.
Most of the actions so far on the NEO has been within Airbus' customer base and within some jump balls between the Bombardier airplane and the NEO.
That's just the observation we've made so far.
We'll go to the line of Christopher Drews with The New York Times.
Can you talk any more about the Southwest plane and the preliminary findings and what may have happened in the manufacturing on that plane? I think we're still sorting through it and there is not yet a final conclusion as you know Chris.
I think the initial data that I think we're all seeing is suggesting a possible workmanship issue on an airplane rather than a design issue across a fleet of airplanes.
In any case we want to get to the truth as quickly as possible and support the inspection and any rework that's needed to make sure that the flying public is as safe as possible.
Okay.
But the preliminary results I mean what they're finding is distinct on that plane from the other ones that had the individual cracks and whatnot? Yes.
I mean I'm in a tough position here.
I mean I don't want to make a conclusive statement because we're not done with the investigation.
But I would say the initial data points more in that direction.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
You're welcome.
And next go to Hal Weitzman with the Financial Times.
I wonder if I could get you to talk a little bit more about oil prices.
You spoke a little bit that you're monitoring them.
But I mean what are some of your concerns in the longer term and maybe some of the advantages even? Well I think the concern obviously is if oil prices get to the point where it has a significant impact on overall economic activity.
Because that inevitably will have an impact on demand for transportation.
So exactly where that tipping point is I don't know.
But obviously if the price trend is straight up you're concerned more about that.
And so that would be the concern I’d have.
Obviously at high-ish prices like where we are now or even a little below where we are now our technology offers answers for high oil prices for airlines that need it given the fuel efficiency of the machines.
And so as long as overall economic activity isn't impacted that we think there will be robust demand for more fuel-efficient airplanes.
So are you assuming that higher oil prices are here for the longer term? I don't know.
I don't want to get in the game of predicting but I think you have to run a business assuming that they're going to remain high.
If you make another assumption you have an opportunity to make a big mistake.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question's from Doug Cameron from Dow Jones.
One for James.
James you mentioned that discussions with suppliers as far as 787 contracts would be basically wrapped up by the end of the year.
But what about with the airline and leasing customers as opposed to the suppliers what's the timeframe for ramping up the compensation or -- anyway what's the timeframe with the customers? I think the bulk of those they're tracking to the same timetable.
We would expect to get to the bulk of both by year-end.
Perfect.
Okay.
And a very quick follow up with Jim for Jim rather last year there was a bit of a flurry of M&amp;A in sort of the Cyber security field Jim right? If you look at bolt-ons in particularly on the Defense side which we haven't talked about much in the call are there any sort of sectors or arenas where you're looking at as far as M&amp;A activity? Well we've made a number of small acquisitions in the cyber area ourselves to get.
.
.
Yes sorry I meant I was referring to your own deals.
I just wondered when you look around having sort of done that where else you might be looking? I see.
Listen I'm convinced it is a critically important area not only for our national security but our national defense.
So we are looking to add capability to our company in this area as well as internally grow it.
Obviously I can't talk about any specific things we're looking at or not looking at right now.
But the bias is to keep developing that capability aggressively.
And any other fields where you're looking M&amp;A wise? Well I think if you're talking as we've discussed before or I discussed before in the Defense and Security area I mean unmanned systems services and C4ISR capability are sort of targets where external growth can supplement internal strength.
Excellent.
Thanks very much.
And next go to Peter Sanders with The Wall Street Journal.
Quick question going back to 37 for a second.
Do you envision any sort of scenario where you may whether it's later this year or not announce a new airplane but just offer at some point a re-engine as well especially if the A320 NEO continues to gain additional orders or starts to crimp some of your long-time customers and some of your market base? Is there a scenario where you could do some sort of a stopgap measure and add a NEO option for a 37? That's a good question.
I think that is not something that looks probable now.
But it is part of our consideration.
And I think the logic goes if you're offering a new plane just a few years after your competitor is offering a re-engined plane and you're already continually improving what you've got that step does not need to be taken.
But all options remain on the table.
I've given you the bias as to where the data is pushing us right now but that is one of the options that we're looking at.
Thank you.
We'll go to Dominic Gates with the Seattle Times.
My question relates to projections on employee numbers for the year.
And in particular I want to ask about your perhaps longer-term plans for the 787-9 the build process on that? Expectations had been raised that you would do some parts of that in-house the tail in particular was mentioned and yet I'm hearing that maybe Alenia is going to build that tail.
Has anything changed there and what's the impact on in-house hiring? Yes I think just starting with your first broad question we are going to be hiring and growing employment in Puget Sound and in South Carolina over the foreseeable future.
Obviously production rates are fueling as well as new airplanes 87 and the 47-8 are fueling really an unprecedented growth for Commercial Airplanes.
And in South Carolina it's obviously a new airplane new growth.
So now as to the specifics of the work scope on new airplanes on the tail we're sorting through an analysis.
We did have some issues on the -8 and so we're trying to figure out the best place to build that tail and we'll be talking about it in more detail later.
But as we've also discussed we're going to be doing more of the engineering on future airplanes in Boeing and somewhat less of it with our suppliers.
So there'll be a broad-based bias upward employment going forward.
So the employment story is a very strong story.
When do you think you might tell us about the tail decision for example on the -9? Is that something we'll hear this year? I'm not sure exactly on the timing when we're going to make that call.
It's under evaluation right now Dominic.
All right.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Glenn Farley with King Television.
Thanks for taking my question.
Jim could you be a little more specific you said there's a magnitude of improvement in terms of the newer 787s coming down the line than the other ones that have been parked outside.
Can you be more specific about that? Well it's all about the extent to which our suppliers have completed their work on these large sections that are part of their work scope.
And I think the program has been plagued over the last few years with these major subsections coming in and not being completed and which has driven the rework we've had to do in Everett which has disrupted things.
And so when I say dramatic increase I mean we're getting near to the point where they're coming in 100% fully assembled.
We're not quite there yet but we're very near that point.
Are you still having to do this fastener replacement and the resealing of the tanks on the newer planes? Or do you consider those planes to be finished as those sections arrive those wings arrive? Yes.
I think some of the work we have to do is driven by what we've discovered in flight tests some engineering changes and some of those things apply to every airplane and then it gets spiraled back into the production system.
So there is some change that has to go on but it's not because the planes weren't fully completed.
It's because some engineering changes came out of flight tests that we had to spiral in.
But that's going to die down also as soon as flight test is completed pretty quickly here.
Operator we have time for one last question please.
That will be from Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
I was wondering if you could say how long you think you'll need to run that sort of factory-within-a-factory for the rework? Is that something that you see continuing past first delivery? Yes.
I mean I think we'll need to do that well into next year and probably most of next year to complete all the work that came out of flight test plus some of the condition of assembly.
Okay.
And is that something that people work full-time on? Or do staff move over to that line from other jobs and kind of come in and out? Well I think that's the point.
I mean what we're trying to do is make that work standardized with the same people doing as much as possible the same tasks on as many airplanes as possible which gives us speed and gives us quality.
All right.
Thank you.
Yes.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations Team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Mr.
Scott Fitterer the Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Fitterer please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's second quarter earnings call.
I'm Scott Fitterer and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and James Bell Boeing's Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and James we'll take your questions.
Again in fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you could follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release in our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this web presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by addressing the current business environment followed by some thoughts on our performance during the quarter.
After that James will walk you through our results and then we'd be glad to take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
The global economy continues to transition to a sustained recovery although uncertainties remain as air transportation has been adjusting to the economic impacts of the unrest in the Middle East rising oil prices sovereign debt issues in Europe and the U.S.
debt ceiling discussion and its related impacts.
Notwithstanding these uncertainties airline industry fundamentals remain sound.
The continued strength and resiliency of the global economy is supporting growth for both passenger and freight traffic which we expect to increase at or above long-term historical trends during 2011.
This growth is driving continued demand for both airline fleet expansion and importantly replacement airplanes.
Previously we announced our plans to increase the 737 production rate from 31.5 airplanes per month to 35 in the beginning of 2012 and then to 38 per month in the second quarter of 2013.
In June we announced plans to further increase the 737 production rate to 42 airplanes per month beginning in the first half of 2014 in order to meet the unprecedented single-aisle demand.
With over 2 100 737 airplanes on order this rate increase allows us to increase -- to meet our customers' requirements and opens new delivery slots for customers who want these airplanes sooner than we could otherwise provide them.
We are working closely with our supplier partners to ensure we increase the 737 rate and our other production program -- our other airplane production rates in an efficient and responsible manner.
Twin-aisle demand continues to be exceptionally strong this year with the 777 taking 70 orders to date and the 747-8 receiving 5 firm orders and 22 commitments so far this year.
Add to this the breakthrough capabilities of the 787 with over 820 airplanes in backlog and it highlights the strength of our industry-leading position in the wide-body segment of the market for both passenger and freighter airplanes.
We intend to maintain this lead as we evaluate the potential for our 787-10 to follow the 787-9 and eventually take steps to further improve the 777 the leading wide-body operating in the marketplace today.
In the single-aisle or narrowbody segment the direction we are heading was made clear as part of the big order announcement last week by American Airlines which included 100 737NGs and a commitment by the airline for an additional 100 re-engined NGs pending launch approval of that program by our Board of Directors.
Over the past 1.5 years working with our customers and industry partners we have evaluated in rigorous detail 2 potential options for our next narrowbody airplane and we are prepared to either pursue the re-engining option that I just discussed with an entry into service around the middle of the decade or an all-new airplane if we could get it to market in the 2019 to 2020 time frame.
Over the past few months we have worked hard to validate the new small airplane option which is largely a technical and production question.
Our primary challenge became that we do not yet have a clear answer on the architecture of a production system that would incorporate new product technologies available to us and could ramp up quickly with acceptable cost and risk profiles to 50 or 60 airplanes per month by the end of the decade which is the range of demand we anticipate in that time frame.
Also in recent months a broader customer view has emerged in support of the greater certainty of gaining significant incremental improvement in a re-engined 737 in the near to midterm over the more perfect solution which may be available further down the road.
It has always been our view that if it looked like we are putting meaningful market share at risk by waiting to do a new airplane we would re-engine instead.
That combined with our new engine technical production assessment against lead time for new engine decision led us to the judgment that we have made.
We are confident that our re-engined 737 will maintain the value proposition we have in the marketplace today and we expect to see strong demand for this product.
It will be the most fuel-efficient airplane in its segment and have the lowest operating cost while also meeting customer needs for range payload standardization reliability and fleet compatibility.
Over the next several weeks we will continue our work to finalize the configuration and other details in anticipation of a launch this fall pending board approval.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security.
Despite environmental pressures and constrained budgets in the U.S.
and Europe global demand for defense products and services remains strong particularly in the Middle East and South Asia.
This demand is driven primarily by the need to modernize current capabilities to meet existing and future threats and upgrade or replace aging equipment.
Our strategy remains to extend and grow existing programs capture a larger sale -- a larger share I should say of international and services opportunities and move aggressively into high-growth areas such as unmanned systems cybersecurity and intelligence.
While pursuing these objectives our teams have also kept a tight focus on disciplined productive operations to ensure continued responsiveness in a tough environment.
Our portfolio of proven reliable and affordable systems is working to our advantage in this current defense market as evidenced by the recent agreement reached with the Indian Air Force for 10 C-17s and the pending order in Saudi Arabia for F-15s Apaches and other systems.
Continued innovation strong execution and productivity across the vast majority of our programs and our international presence are sources of strength for all of Boeing in this current business environment.
The commercial and defense and security markets we serve remain large and are growing in the aggregate.
And we are making important progress on the strategies we're pursuing.
Turning to the second quarter highlights on Slide 3.
Core operational performance was excellent during the quarter as both of our major businesses recorded double-digit margins.
Commercial Airplanes generated strong operating results as production and services programs continue to make productivity gains.
Increased deliveries also contributed to the positive quarter as both the 777 and 767 models transitioned to their previously announced higher production rates.
Our commercial development programs are substantially complete with their flight test activities and are transitioning into the final stages of the certification process.
Barring any last-minute issues that can't be resolved for some reason both the 787 and the 747-8 freighter are on track for first deliveries later in the third quarter.
On the 787 we're working closely with our customers to prepare for entry into service.
Earlier this month we successfully concluded service-ready operational validation with our launch customer ANA where the 787 experienced simulated day-to-day airline operations such as maintenance servicing and flight crew operations.
We are also in the final phases of ETOPS and F&amp;R test for the Rolls-Royce engine and expect certification before the end of August.
We continue to work with our internal and external partners on improving the condition of assembly.
Earlier this month we adjusted component delivery schedules to keep the production flow in balance and minimize out-of-sequence work moving into final assembly.
We will continue to take a deliberate and disciplined approach as the program progresses through the production ramp-up plan.
We are currently operating at 2 per month production rate in Everett and are prepared to increase to 2.5 per month later this year.
Boeing South Carolina is progressing to plan as production on the first 787 begins this quarter and our new final assembly building.
First delivery out of Charleston is expected to take place in 2012.
The change in corporation process on airplanes already built is also progressing well.
We are using a modification line approach and leveraging enterprise resources in both Everett and San Antonio to address the orderly and timely completion of this statement of work.
Defense Space &amp; Security also generated strong operating results for the quarter delivering 29 military aircraft and 1 satellite.
New business efforts also advanced in addition to the agreement reached with India's Ministry of Defence for the 10 C-17s the Commonwealth of Australia signed a contract to acquire their fifth C-17.
During the quarter we signed contracts with the U.S.
Army for 4 additional Chinook helicopters and with U.S.
Air Force for additional C-130 avionics modernization program kits and air crew training system devices.
The U.S.
Air Force also gained full operational status of the GPS Operational Control Segment upgrade.
This keeps the GPS system operational within specified accuracy to provide secure and precise navigation around the world for military humanitarian and commercial applications.
And in support of our repositioning strategy our Phantom Ray unmanned aircraft completed 2 flights during the quarter successfully demonstrating the airworthiness of this exciting new airborne system.
The current defense environment will continue to provide challenges but we remain intensely focused on executing well reducing costs and meeting the enduring needs of our customers with a balanced portfolio of system solutions and capabilities.
Total company backlog at quarter end stands at $323 billion which provides the foundation for significant future growth.
Now over to James who will discuss the second quarter results and our outlook.
James? Thank you Jim and good morning.
I'll begin with our second quarter results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the quarter was $16.5 billion up 6% from a year ago due to higher delivery volumes and mix.
Net earnings were $1.25 per share up 18% from last year while operating margins were 9.3%.
This reflects the higher revenue and strong performance across all our businesses offsetting a $0.09 per share increase in pension expense.
Now let's move to BCA results on Slide 5.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes second quarter revenue was $8.8 billion an increase of 19% from last year reflecting higher airplane deliveries improved mix and continued strength in the service business.
Commercial operating margins were 10.4% reflecting the higher revenues and strong operating performance partially offset by higher research and development expense.
During the quarter we extended the accounting quantities on 3 of our airplane programs.
The 747 was increased by 25 units the 767 by 12 units and the 777 by 50 units.
And as Jim mentioned earlier during the quarter we announced the 737 production rate will increase to 42 airplanes a month beginning in the first half of 2014.
The financial impact of these decisions and probable outcomes of current campaigns have been assumed in the program accounting gross margins.
Overall the financial impact was not significant in the quarter.
The benefits of volume leverage and continued productivity improvements are balanced with the competitive pricing environment and investments in tooling and production systems necessary to achieve the higher production rates.
Gross inventory for the company now includes $16.2 billion related to the 787 work in process supplier advances tooling and other nonrecurring costs an increase of approximately $1.7 billion during the quarter.
This balance includes over 35 airplanes that have rolled out of the factory to meet the strong market demand for this product.
We expect the inventory balance to continue to grow as we ramp up production but the rate of growth will moderate as deliveries are made.
As we look forward to first deliveries of the 787 we expect to disclose the initial accounting quantity and deferred production costs next quarter.
Given the tremendous success of this product in the marketplace with over 820 airplanes in backlog the initial accounting quantity will be substantially higher than previous new program initial quantities.
And while the delays and challenges faced early on in the program has contributed to higher deferred production costs and higher initial unit cost than experienced on other programs the significant demand for this product gives us confidence that these costs will be absorbed profitably over time.
Commercial Airplane 177 gross orders during the quarter including 43 737s and 26 777s while 12 orders were canceled.
The commercial backlog remains strong with over 3 300 airplanes valued at $262 billion.
Now let's move to Slide 6 in our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported second quarter revenues of $7.7 billion down 4% from last year on lower volumes.
Operating margins were 10.4% reflecting strong operating performance.
Boeing Military Aircraft revenues of $3.6 billion were in line with a year ago.
Operating margins were 10.6% up from a year ago reflecting strong operating performance while last year's results were affected by an AWC charge of $46 million.
Boeing Military Aircraft also includes the Defense Space &amp; Security's performance results of the KC-46A tanker program.
As we have previously stated we won this program by offering the best integrated solution to meet the customer needs with an aggressive yet responsible bid.
That included engineering and manufacturing development and production of 179 tankers over the next 17 years.
Our cost estimate has not changed as we submitted the final build and the contract is not in a forward-loss position.
The fixed price incentive structure of this contract clearly incentivize [ph] us to explore ways to improve cost performance.
We continue to expect this program to be profitable over time while providing the best value for the war fighter and American taxpayers.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenues of $2.1 billion were down from last year due to funding reduction in Brigade Combat Team Modernization and lower SBInet volume.
Operating margins were 9.5% with core operating performance in line with a year ago.
This quarter's results also included a contract adjustment due to performance of United Launch Alliance and a gain from the sale of property.
Global Services &amp; Support revenues of $2 billion were down slightly from last year due to current defense environment.
Operating margins were 10.9% up over last year's due to the strong performance of integrated logistics.
Defense Space &amp; Security maintained a solid backlog of $61 billion nearly 2x annual revenues.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 and our other business.
Boeing Capital continues to perform well as it reported $62 million of pretax earnings in the quarter.
The portfolio balance at quarter end was $4.4 billion down on normal portfolio runoff and modest asset sales with no volume for new airplanes.
During the quarter BCC reduced risk in its portfolio by facilitating the Hawaiian Airlines purchase of 15 717s they previously had on operating lease.
Hawaiian has also agreed to expand their 717 fleet leasing 3 additional airplanes previously operated by Mexicana.
Now let's go to Slide 8 and our cash flow.
During the quarter we generated $1.6 billion of cash flow reflecting strong operational performance from our production and our service programs offset by continued investment in the development programs.
Now let's go to Slide 9.
Our cash and liquidity position remains strong as we ended the quarter with $8.8 billion of cash and marketable securities.
We will continue to execute our balanced cash deployment strategy and are well-positioned to support the ramp up on our development and production programs.
Now let's go to Slide 10 and our outlook.
Our earnings per share guidance for 2011 has increased 10% to between $3.90 and $4.10 per share reflecting the strong core performance across our businesses.
The guidance continues to consider risks associated with our development programs and the competitive environment across both Commercial and Defense markets.
Revenue guidance for the year remains unchanged at between $68 billion and $71 billion.
We now expect Commercial Airplanes to deliver between 485 and 495 airplanes during the year with a combined 20 to 30 787s and 747-8 deliveries weighted more towards 747-8.
Commercial Airplane revenues remained at between $36 billion and $38 billion for the year as improved service revenues is offsetting the lower forecasted deliveries.
Commercial operating margin guidance has been increased and is now expected to between 8% and 8.5% reflecting the strong performance on production and service programs and the lower planned development program deliveries.
We expect commercial operating margins during the second half to be lower than the first half driven by dilutions from the 787 and 747-8 deliveries and higher fleet support costs somewhat offset by lower research and development expense and higher volume on production programs.
Defense Space &amp; Security revenue is narrowed to between $31.5 billion and $32.5 billion reflecting increased clarity around the current business environment on 2011 results.
Operating margins are expected to be approximately 9% reflecting the strong performance and execution on production and development programs during the first half of the year.
Defense Space &amp; Security operating margins during the second half will be lower than the first half driven by deliveries of AWCs and international tankers with lower margins.
We continue to expect operating cash flow for the year to be greater than $2.5 billion in 2011 research and development expense to be between $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion.
Capital expenditures in 2011 are now expected to be approximately $2 billion reduced from approximately $2.3 billion as some expenditures have shifted into 2012.
We continue to expect other segment expense for the year to be approximately $250 million and unallocated expenses to be about $800 million.
The effective tax rate forecast for the year is unchanged at approximately 34%.
Now with that I'll turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jim? Thanks James.
This is clearly an important year for Boeing.
We remain focused on completing our development programs and getting these new and efficient products into the hands of our customers.
At the same time we are working in a very disciplined manner to increase commercial production rates and execute our Defense Space &amp; Security strategy all aimed at meeting the marketplace demands.
With a good start to the year based on our continued focus on productivity improvements cash management and disciplined execution we are on track for a strong 2011 and well-positioned to deliver value to our stakeholders in the years ahead.
With all of that said we'd now be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
I'd like to ask a comprehensive question on the 737 re-engine and so it is a multiple part but I think it's important.
Knowing that you haven't launched the aircraft yet I suspect there's still some detail framework around it in order to -- since it was the key I think to the American win.
So could you add some more color on the following items.
First the configuration is this an engines-only exercise to mitigate cost? And how should we think about the R&amp;D profile and CFM's share of that profile? And then what are your market expectations for this model in particular for the near-term domestic competitions? And then finally if you could clarify American's comment that it doesn't expect to receive delivery of this model until 2018 suggesting that it is not the launch operator while it may be the launch customer.
Well let's see.
I'll start at the beginning.
As I may -- as I said in my comments because I anticipate that there may be more than one question on this so I'll try to sweep a number of these in.
As most of you know as I said in my remarks we spent the better part of the last year or 18 months pushing hard on both options.
And as the new small airplane largely a technical and production question re-engine largely a marketplace acceptance question because the do-ability of it technically is less costly and has less risk.
I think what we've seen over the last I would say over the last 2 to 3 months we've seen the marketplace assessment pushing more for the re-engined option.
We've also been somewhat more mindful of the risks associated with getting a massive new production system up on an all-new airplane by 2019 which doesn't suggest we couldn't do it but there is more risk as you get deeper into it than perhaps we appreciated at the beginning of the assessment.
You combine these 2 things and you get to a re-engine decision.
And just to bear on one part of your question it is largely about the engine.
The configuration that we're looking at is that there will be some systemic impact on parts of the airframe.
But I think I would characterize our strategy as to minimize those while still achieving the kinds of operating efficiency cash-on-cash and performance goals that I mentioned in my talk.
I think that's one advantage of this option quite frankly is that we do have confidence that CFM can produce the engine.
And we see very manageable risk on incorporating it into and integrating it into the airframe.
So again and we've been studying this for awhile so this didn't occur to us a week before the American Airline competition.
This is something -- and I would characterize the American Airlines' deal as part of a much broader voice of the marketplace that it is very highly valuing efficiency today versus more efficiency tomorrow.
And you know the environment they're operating in and perhaps -- and we've always said that the last thing we would do is do an all-new airplane if it put a lot of market share at risk in the short and medium term.
And that which gets to the question of would the marketplace wait for the perfect solution further down the road or not? And so mix that all together and that's where we ended up.
You had one specific American Airline campaign question and I've lost it.
That Jim and the R&amp;D profile perhaps from James.
Yes okay.
Yes James you can talk to the R&amp;D profile which is very manageable okay.
The 2018 is less a function of when we can get the airplane done.
And more a function of when American Airlines needed the plane.
On R&amp;D Rob obviously a derivative airplane is a lot less expensive a lot less risk associated with than an all-new airplane.
So we will see that the R&amp;D impact to this will be a lot less.
R&amp;D will go down in '12 as we've told you.
I think it was going down at any scenario but obviously we will have a better opportunity to do a little better in '12 than we probably previously thought if we were doing a totally new airplane.
James you said before that R&amp;D on something like this is something like 10% to 15% of a new aircraft is that fair? That's probably about right.
Yes about right.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
I'd like to dig into pricing a little bit on the RE to the degree you're willing to share anything.
Airbus has said in the past that they are going to get and are getting a multimillion dollar premium for the NEO than they were for the A320 classic.
And I'm wondering if you can say stand today and say that a part of your business model and you will demand a premium for your aircraft? And then the second part of this is with that in mind as we look out beyond the next few years in the 737 but really into the middle part of the decade how sustainable do you think those fantastic margins are just as you put together the business case? Well I think there's no question that we will be delivering significant productivity to the airlines with the re-engined product.
I think the fuel efficiency is and this is fairly conservative isn't it in the 10% to 12% range operating cost improvements are also significant.
So an airline in a perfect world would be willing to pay for that.
And we expect to capture a large part of the value in the pricing.
Obviously -- and that's our plan -- obviously the competitive element campaign to campaign can get in the way of that.
And that's reality but that's another reason I think to take -- to find a sweet spot of a lot of value but with manageable financial and technical risk.
And that's the approach we've taken.
But we expect -- we plan on it and we expect to get value.
You're right Joe that we are at a I don't want to say high watermark but I want to say pretty robust level now that we've been producing this plane for a long time.
And I think those margins are sustainable.
And next we'll go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sorry to keep beating on the 737 horse but kind of back to that.
I think I understand why the 737 re-engining decision was made but I guess it's not clear to me how it was in that time frame.
I mean can you speak to what is the broader strategy for Boeing in the narrowbody market? By doing the re-engining you presumably aren't going to do the new airplane which was presumably going to be bigger.
So how do you solve the -- when you had a bigger narrowbody problem with this and it just seems like it was done kind of last minute under duress in a campaign.
Can you speak to that? Yes.
I mean I do understand where that question comes from I think.
But I do want to emphasize again that we have been studying the re-engine option to the same degree that we've been studying a new airplane option for the last year or more.
So this was not something that we sidled up to at the last minute.
Admittedly though Ron and our view of the marketplace changed over the last 3 months I would say.
And as I said in my -- in answer to the last question I think the significant economics that we can deliver with re-engine are more highly valued over the next 5 to 7 years than even better economics after that point.
And this is in-depth discussion with customers and one of which was American Airlines.
But believe me that was not the only customer we talked to.
And that we also validated that the re-engine could deliver the kind of numbers I alluded to earlier.
You wrapped that all -- that combined with the not having all the answers we wanted on the production system to support an all-new airplane in hand I think that -- so  the technical risk kind of moved to the right and the marketplace moved to the left if I can phrase it that way.
And that's why we made the call we did.
Okay and if I may just one follow-on on American.
It's become clear Airbus had used their balance sheet to close the deal with American.
I think they're going to be leasing them a bunch of airplanes.
Is Boeing Capital part of the American deal or not? I mean how much did you have to use the Boeing balance sheet to close the piece of the deal with American that you did? Well I think American's announcement said that both of us played significant roles in the financing.
Obviously we provided some lease back-stop financing for this transaction.
We anticipate though that as we have in most cases over the years that we'll be able to work with partners to offload parts of it the extent of which we have to take it significant parts of it that's yet to be discovered but we have some -- we have a high degree of confidence there.
And I can say for us I mean Airbus will have to speak for themselves but I can say for us the commitments we made are very manageable within the context of our overall financial strength.
And so we are very comfortable with it.
Our next question is from Joe Campbell with Barclays Capital.
It's actually for Carter Copeland for Joe Campbell.
Just quick question Jim and James I want to revisit the comments you made about the tanker.
You said that the program was not in a forward loss but the press reports indicate that you've informed the customer about overruns.
So nothing changed in your estimates but your overrunning as the press reports suggest does this mean you're always planning on overrunning or how do we square that commentary? I think first and foremost there aren't an overrun on the program.
Because if we were overrunning it we would have a forward loss that we would have to take.
I think where the question gets in is between target cost and the total value of the contract.
We had always bid this contract thinking that on the EMD phase it would be a very low profitability or breakeven and that the profit would be generated as we started producing the tankers the 179.
And so nothing's changed from that philosophy nothing's changed from our bid.
I think what you're hearing is that it's the target versus the ceiling.
No they're reporting James that you have informed the Air Force that you are will be over ceiling is that incorrect? Ceiling being the target you're talking? We're not gonna be able to contact [indiscernible] No over ceiling.
The ceiling being the point at which the Air Force says no further responsibilities for the overruns.
No.
I think what you're referring to are the period expenses that are absolutely allocable to the contract but are paid on a quarterly basis.
Those are inventoried.
And we have assumed that other parts of Dennis' [ph] business will accommodate those as those are incurred and are charged off here on a current expense base.
So it is the case that you've told the Air Force that you're going to be over ceiling.
But for our purposes -- so the Air Force purposes you're going to lose money but for our purposes you're going to break even? On the EMD phase only is what we're assuming today.
But the incentive nature of the contract obviously we'll be working hard to improve that cost performance over time.
Our next question is from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I'd like to go through the 787 right now because there's been a lot of news lately and I'd just like to understand where we are on a number of things such as there've been press reports regarding the stoppage of the line of the 787 about a slowdown in your ability to take the production rate up on the airplane.
There was one about delays in the 787-9 to 2014.
And could you describe where these things stand right now because there's a lot of information out there and it's very difficult to tell what's accurate and what's not? Yes.
Listen Doug our projections as to the ramp certification and deliveries are the same okay? We have not changed any of those.
So just as a framework for the answer I'm about to give you we did take a 20-day pause to rebalance the line all within that guidance.
I view that as good news okay? I mean the facts are we have broad visibility across our supply chain now and when we need to take a pause to rebalance it we do it early.
We get rebalanced and we're almost done with this 20-day rebalance we've done now.
The only thing worse than a rebalance is to not rebalance.
You pay for it in cost and schedule in a big way later.
So we're pretty agile now to rebalance quickly and it will be a positive over the life of this program and through the ramp that we're accomplishing because a couple of places got out of sequence and a couple of places got -- didn't meet their objectives on completed work.
And that's all healing up now.
And hey and listen we could it again sometime over the next year or so.
We'd have to get in balance.
That's how you have to manage this kind of supply chain.
So that's and I think we've been fairly open about it this 20-day thing.
I don't know where this 787-9 rumor.
I guess there was -- I guess in New Zealand there was a -- just like in maybe the same press that you're looking at there was a comment that there was a worry that the 787-9 was pushed into 2014.
I'm not sure where that came from.
But our ramp plans on the 787-9 are in place it's going well.
As you know we have the surge line in Everett as protection should we get into a stutter step mode there.
Surge line is also there by design to protect against any hiccups in Charleston as we ramp up.
That's the whole strategy.
And right now our projections have us in good shape.
So that's -- if you're looking for something else in answer ask specifically I'll see what I can do.
Inc.</strong> Well but you have -- haven't you taken down your projection for at least for 2011 you've taken down the top end of your 87 and 47-8 deliveries? Yes.
Inc.</strong> I mean are you seeing something here that's slowing a little bit or is this just a minor change? Well it's a -- I think we're 25 to 30.
I would view it -- I would characterize it Doug as a narrowing of the projection and holding on to the base projection.
But it's well within the guidance that we started the year with.
Inc.</strong> So it doesn't represent any new issues on your side whether it's with respect to production supplier issues and so forth? I think we always anticipated that we'd have some rejiggering and some rebalancing of the line.
It's just the nature of this of ramping up a supply chain like this.
And I think the extent to which you've seen it it was -- well not specifically anticipated it was in general anticipated.
And next we'll go to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just to follow a little bit more on 78.
I mean one of the things I would say we've died a cut whatever we've suffered a number of let's say pauses delays oops's on the 78.
And the reality is we can allow for some of these misses but it still seems unrealistic that you're going to get to your ramp rate given all of what I'd say these pauses.
And so could you give us a little bit more color as to why you could get Jim to some of these higher rates? I mean all of these -- the airplanes are later than I think you would have thought at the beginning of the year especially if you wanted to target towards the mid-end of that range.
Well listen the reason we feel that way is that data suggests that it's accomplishable all right? And one of the components of that assessment.
The components of that assessment are the healing up and the ability to ramp further of our major supplier partners.
We're in a pause right now to get that healed up.
And as I said before that could happen again and not threaten the overall ramp rate all right? It helps your ability to get there.
Another component is the modification work being done on the airplanes that are already built.
We've got a very systematic way to go about it factory within a factory in Everett some help in San Antonio.
The statement of work is clearly understood.
Now that we're at the very end of the flight test program there is the additional engineering input which drives some of that work is going to go away.
So that really becomes a known statement of work just get through it is it manned adequately resourced adequately? We think we've answered those questions.
So is it a challenging ramp? Yes.
Do we think we can do it? Yes.
And it's because we analyzed the data and tried to understand the amount of work and project we can make it.
Inc.</strong> Jim just related to that and then I'm done.
Is the R&amp;D -- the R&amp;D spend so far is averaging closer to $4 billion for the year rather than sort of where you -- the range you've targeted.
I would sort of think the low end of that range is probably on the highly unlikely unless there's a fairly sharp completion on both the 78 and 74 in the very near term.
I mean can you help me with that? Yes I can help you with that Howard.
We obviously are looking to see that the certification effort is over at the end of August and we're going to see the engineers get moved off of that program.
And so we still think that given what we see and what we know and if it goes as planned that we'll get into the guidance range on R&amp;D.
And we'll go to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> A follow-up on the 737.
You won't -- you say you need board approval but do you look to kind of take additional commitments for the plane before that board approval if Delta United Southwest other candidates come forward? And secondly I was a little surprised by your statement that R&amp;D would be down more next year as a result of the decision to go derivative versus new because derivative basically delivers earlier versus all-new.
My assumption was you weren't going to really [indiscernible] until late 2013.
So how come the R&amp;D is less? I didn't say that.
I said R&amp;D will still come down next year.
I didn't say that.
LLC</strong> Would it be down more [indiscernible] It will still come down next year.
What I did say was that the expenditure profile for the development effort now that we are looking more at a re-engine versus a new airplane will be less.
But R&amp;D will come down about the same as we'd always thought.
LLC</strong> So basically there's no difference between the 2 in terms of the R&amp;D next year? Next year correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the other question you don't commit to the board until this fall.
But should we expect additional commitments between here and there as other airlines make decisions? Yes.
I mean obviously the board is aware of the direction we're taking Cai.
I think you never want to outrun your board though in terms of getting the formal approval you need.
And I would expect that we would be receiving that soon.
And we're working through that now.
And it's just a matter of as I mentioned formalizing the final configuration and therefore documenting the business case and crossing all the Ts and dotting all the Is and giving the board an absolutely thorough look at what the impact will be.
But we're going to keep talking to customers.
Our next question is from Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Question on the 737.
Last year you walked away from a Ryanair deal that we all applauded you because you weren't going to do uncompetitive deals.
And this year the American Ts and Cs looked significantly less attractive.
Can you Jim walk us through why the deal terms are becoming so unappealing in a time when demand for the product is so high? And help us think about why AMR isn't a harbinger price wars again considering United Delta Southwest and Ryanair.
Talk about how you retain profitability as these planes deliver? Yes I think the -- I don't know how much you know about the Ryanair deal Heidi.
It wouldn't surprise me if you know more than I think you do.
Having said that walking away from the Ryanair deal last year was the right thing to do.
It didn't -- that business case did not close for us or for Ryanair so it was one of those things that didn't make sense.
This one does.
I would say that obviously the American competition did get pretty heated as Airbus who hadn't sold planes there in a number of years wanted to come in and get market share and did get some market share there.
And it was pretty aggressively priced but not irresponsibly priced from our standpoint.
Airbus can speak for themselves.
What I can tell you is that this is a very profitable deal for us and for American.
So it's one these good deals for both sides.
So I'm not uncomfortable with the pricing level there.
But I think the competitive dynamics were a little more intense there because of the early Airbus move.
And we'll go to Ken Herbert with Wedbush Securities.
Just again a follow-on question on the 737.
You've talked about narrowbody rates now a few getting up to the 50 to 60 range.
As you think about the cost profile of this program how should we think about understanding considering some of the limitations up in Renton how narrowbody production may evolve to potentially support obviously some of your -- maintain some of the margin while at the same time looking at the kind of rates you've thrown out there for the next 5 to 10 years? Yes.
I mean we haven't made the final decision where we're going to produce the re-engined airplane.
Your question implies though that after the 42 a month we do run into some challenges if Renton were the choice some capital expenditures there to increase it.
But we have other options and we're going to study them all as we think it through.
But demand could easily be that high in the time frame we're talking about.
And good news is we have options.
Great.
And so it's fair to say that you got options obviously.
To what extent could potentially South Carolina step in and meet some of that meet some of the demand for you? Well it would depend as we studied it how competitive they could be as compared to Renton or compared to another site.
I think we would study it all and come up with a decision that makes the most sense for our customers and the company.
And next we go to Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Jim we've obviously heard a lot to talk about the re-engining.
But I was wondering if you could give us an idea of what you think the demand environment is there out there for this aircraft? What sort of level of launch orders we could be expecting over the next 6 to 12 months and whether you think your current market share can now be held at this level? We believe our current market share can be held.
We think there is robust demand for the re-engined airplane.
I mean I think the operating economics we're a bit of a sweet spot with the engine with GE and Snecma in the sense that some of the technology insertion plans they have peaks at a good time in terms of engine performance.
And given our strategy to incorporate the new technology efficiently yet minimize the systemic impact on other parts of the airplane I think it presents kind of a low-risk low-capital way to access this market growth as opposed to a much longer cycle much more expensive new small airplane.
But the demand is there.
I'm convinced of it particularly in the developing world as well as coming on strong in the United States.
And we'll go to David Strauss with UBS.
Jim following on that question you talked about the re-engined airplane some of the operating economics kind of in absolute terms.
Can you talk about what kind of operating economics you think this airplane will have relative to the NEO? I think you've spoken in the past that you actually think that on a cash operating cost per seat basis that the NG actually has still has better economics than the NEO.
And as a follow-up question can you give us a time frame when you would expect to make a decision on the exact fan size that's going to go on that you put under the wing of re-engined airplane? Yes.
I think as to the first part of your question let me just get into the end zone quickly.
Based on the data we've got and the customer data we've got we believe our re-engined airplane will be -- have roughly the same margin of capability over the NEO as our current airplane has over the current A330 which is sort of a 2% 3% 4% depending on the mission depending on the model cash-on-cash gap.
And so we plan on based on what we know now of retaining that gap is one way to think about it.
The fan size we have studied a number of options on the fan size very thoroughly.
We've also studied some elements of core configuration too.
So trust me when I tell you that this has not gone unstudied.
We are centering now the 2 teams on a favored configuration that we've been working on.
And it would be premature to mention right now what it is until we get -- until have we got the approval and customers know specifically about it.
But I think we're in pretty good shape that we have centered on an option that makes sense to us.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
I want to ask a multipart question on margins.
So first in the quarter was there anything onetime in either BCA or BDS? Secondly the BCA new full year guidance implies you do 8 even in the back half versus 10-4 in the second quarter.
You mentioned conservatism around 78 and 747-8.
In the past you've actually quantified specific contingency.
If you have that that's identifiable and quantifiable I would love to hear that.
And then as we look longer term beyond '11 James when you think about the mix of ramping your profitable legacy programs the R&amp;D tail end and then the offset of the dilution from 78 and 747-8.
Can you speak to the degree of margin expansion you think you can achieve at BCA in the next couple of years? So on your first part of your question the onetimers that we had in the quarter really related to BDS.
It was the what I mentioned earlier the sale of property and then also we had a closeout of the operating contract at ULA and gave them a little more favorable performance.
So I think when you take that out you're about at the run rate we see them going forward.
With BD -- with BCA it's more driven by a number of things.
First of all we're going to have a pretty significant impact to margins associated with the dilution as we start delivering 787s and 747-8.
That will be somewhat offset by reduced R&amp;D but we will also have an increase in the fleet support effort associated with that.
So those 2 will balance.
So you are going to see margins in the second half of the year mitigate in BCA.
And I think we'll come in at our total year at what you see at the guidance range.
Going forward as we see ramp up on all these programs what we think is going to happen particularly on the current production programs and their level of maturity what we'd like to see happen is to sustain the kind of profitability we have today.
And as Jim just talked about we do have pricing pressure that we are assuming in the margins today and we talked about that earlier that there is going to be some pricing pressure and we understand that.
So the plan would be going forward is to sustain the margins.
Obviously we'll have less R&amp;D next year but we will still have some in-service costs associated with fleet support with the 87.
And then we'll start up on the new development program on re-engine.
So we're going to get to -- we'll have to figure out next year what our operating R&amp;D rate is going forward and we'll give you that update once we know it.
But I think if you look at the gross margins our program the strategy is to sustain them.
Not to expect that we're going to have a significant amount of the increase except for obviously the development programs that as they ramp up we would expect their margin performance from them.
Can I ask you to specifically quantify the BDS items in the quarter and then also the fleet support in -- what it is in '11 what you think it is in '12? I think I did quantify -- I didn't quantify just told you what it was.
It's about $40 million for the -- for about both.
And fleet support we don't specify.
We will tell you what the total is we don't specify by program.
And that will be from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I did want to ask a question somewhat related to the 737 but more broadly which is how you think about the prioritization going forward and a 777 refresh and even the thought of a new single-aisle airplane just because my thought was part of the appeal of the 737 new plane was that you would not go so long in between all-new aircraft developments and run into the problems you've had on the 787 given that gap from the 777? And if do a re-engining forward doesn't it mean the next all-new airplane could potentially be 10 years away once again? I think the -- you're right.
There's a balance between the risks associated with the various developments which tends to favor modification and higher risk developments on new airplanes which tend to engage more of the workforce.
And we're very mindful of that.
I think where the re-engine leaves us is -- but first we got to execute that.
I mean that is -- I characterize it as lower risk but none of these things are low low risk.
And so there's going to be a significant amount of engineering talent GE Snecma and here to get that done properly.
We will probably turn more quickly to some significant modification on the 777 which will involve a lot of engagement of our workforce.
I would say the 2 projects after the re-engine that we have to sort out would be -10 on the 787 which is a further stretch of that airplane and then some degree of refurbishment as I just said on the 777 which could range from small to large.
And we're sort of waiting to see what the A350-1000 is or isn't to make that judgment.
I think you always want to plan conservatively so we're planning on the modification being somewhat significant.
And those kinds of modifications are almost the same as new airplanes in terms of the kind of people you need to employ in the scope of the work.
And then there will be obviously as we get into the next decade the choice on the all-new narrowbody versus an all-new wide-body.
But there'll be a lot of work in the meantime to keep our folks busy.
LLC</strong> And does that mean that the R&amp;D profile doesn't fall over the next say 5-plus years as much as it might have under the prior thinking? I think our take is that it will at least in our minds -- and I'm mindful that we haven't given you guidance okay? So I'm sort of -- except the directional guidance over the next year or so.
But the R&amp;D profile has not changed significantly based on the reprioritization of the re-engine versus the NSA.
There are plenty of things for our people to do and I think the net impact would be the upfronting of some wide-body work and pushing out of some narrowbody work given that we're doing a smaller scope project versus a bigger scope project on the NSA.
I think that -- and so therefore -- and plus there's some advance work.
I mean you mentioned the 787 and the struggles we had with that development.
That was as much about not getting technology that we wanted to inject into the next airplane matured properly as it was about some issues on supply chain execution.
So we're going to be doing more work on technical maturation just fundamental work.
And when you at that all up our LRBP hasn't changed in terms of R&amp;D.
And ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now return you to Boeing company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you we have a few remaining minutes for questions for Jim and James with the media.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you to limit everyone to just one question please.
And we have the line of Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
Can you say to what extent the NLRB proceedings are a factor or affect your thinking in deciding where to do additional narrowbody production down the road? Well I think the NLRB case we remain highly confident that at the end of the day that we will win this case.
And that's obviously a legal judgment.
It will take a lot of twists and turns and it will probably have to get in in the worst-case get in to the federal courts for the judgment to be made.
So given the confidence that we are doing the right thing not only for our company but within the law we're continuing to invest there.
We're continuing to hire new people as we grow our company and as we grow exports for this country and provide employment.
We're going to do that in South Carolina.
And depending upon how it goes we'll have to see how competitive the factory is.
I mean we're going to invest to make it as competitive as we can.
But I think it's fair to say that just getting the 87 done over the next few years is a big challenge.
And we are going to succeed but over the next few years I don't want to dilute the effort down there with other new airplanes right away.
So it could be an option down the road on re-engine.
But it's not at the top of the list right now.
Okay so does -- but how about in terms of the impact of the proceeding on the decision itself? I mean is that something sort of keeping your options open as a means...
0.
0 impact.
Sorry I answered the wrong -- I answered it rather eloquently but I answered the wrong question.
It was a great answer it was just fine.
0 is the answer.
And next we go to Susanna Ray with Bloomberg News.
I have 2 questions I hope that's okay.
First of all I'm wondering if you can elaborate a bit on what the impacts of the 787 production growth were on your re-engining decision because I did note for example that the most recent production pause that you have made was about the same time frame as when you decided to re-engine the 37 instead of build a new plane.
And then my second question in that 747 certification.
I know the 87 you said the end of August and I'm wondering if that's true for the 47 as well? If they are still neck and neck or if the 87 has now pulled ahead and if so why that is? No they're both neck and neck both by the end of August is what the current data says.
As to your first I think you said you may be on a cell phone so I -- there really is no connection between the 787 supply chain ramp up and our 737 production ramp up programs.
So any [indiscernible] No the re-engining decision.
No connection.
Different marketplaces different products.
Our decision as I had mentioned was based on the -- on the 737 was based on a combination of technical and marketplace assessments and had nothing to do with the 787 in our minds.
And we'll go to Dominic Gates with the Seattle Times.
My question for Jim I'm just a little surprised to hear you opening up this option you need to produce 50 to 60 or you hope to produce 50 to 60 narrowbodies by the end of the decade per month.
And so you're now talking about possibly not doing the re-engine in Renton.
That just seems such a surprising thing to bring up.
You've got your most efficient line of all your aircraft programs.
You've actually got a third line which does have the complication of have being an ITAR [ph]  Line.
But it seems like in Renton you do have all the options you could possibly want to make that airplane there.
So I mean are you seriously considering doing the re-engine somewhere else? Like Charleston doesn't even do metal airplanes.
Or is it just a matter of wanting to keep your options open? And what's the effect on the moral of your Renton workforce when you raised this what I would have to call a specter of putting work elsewhere? Well listen I mean Renton is one of the great aerospace factories in the world okay? So obviously the idea of putting a lot of work a lot of narrowbodies there is very attractive.
I think the spirit in which I was answering the question was until we have sorted out the milestones associated with the ramp up the degree to which we have to modify the airplane there would be major investments in Renton beyond the currently planned production rates.
Until we sort that all out we can't confirm where we're going to put it precisely.
But would putting it in Renton be a good option? Yes.
But would you say it's -- I mean all your supply chain converges in Renton you've got complete fuselages coming into Renton to put it somewhere else means having Wichita send it wherever.
It seems like more investment to do it elsewhere would you think that Renton is the most likely place? Well listen I think until we study it all obviously Renton has a strong case.
But again Dominic there is significant investment beyond the -- that we'd have to make some place beyond the current rates that we're contemplating.
And until we understand exactly what the plan will be and at what rate we have to build it I think we have to study that and figure it out.
And we go to Molly McMillin with The Wichita Eagle.
I just had a quick question.
I'm wondering are you seeing any continuing problems on the 787 as far as structural problems on the wing box or any place that like that? There's kind of a rumor and I just wanted to check it out.
No.
That's a fair question.
We are seeing no structural issues.
I think the issues that we're working through have to do with the assembly of the airplane and the manufacturing of it.
And we're going through that in a very rigorous and disciplined way to get to where we need to get to.
But structural they were largely through flight test and through static test which surfaces -- which is designed to surface those kinds of issues.
And we're getting to the very end of that and there is no major or minor structural issues that I know of.
And we go to Jeremy Lemer with the Financial Times.
You mentioned the 20-day pause that you've taken on the 787 and you mentioned that there was some slack in the schedule.
How many more pauses do you think you're able to accommodate within the existing ramp schedule for the 787 without having to push back any parts of that schedule? And how did your suppliers respond to those that pause? Were they left holding some inventory that you haven't paid them for yet? What was the impact there? Well I think those that needed the time reacted favorably to it and those that were ready to go -- that's why we went to a planned pause so that people could manage their inventory as well as they could.
But it's -- I don't know that there will be more pauses.
I think one of the judgments you make with the pause is that you are in effect accelerating the schedule when compared with the case of not doing the pause okay? And so it's not as simple as adding 20 days to whatever schedule you were on.
It's a matter of getting rid of significantly more risk by adding 20 days and we're getting closer to having the balance we need.
And next we go to Glenn Farley with King Television.
So to go back on some of the analysts' questions about the new small airplane I mean you've done all this work to it the considerable amount of work from my understanding not just by what you said today but what we've heard from the engineering team and others over the last year or so.
So essentially what happens to it? Does it just go off into space someplace or is it a real viable option to be picked up maybe 5 or 10 years down the road? Yes it's more of the latter.
I mean I think a lot of the work which was developmental work I mean we're not we weren't to the point of bending metal or forming composite or anything like that.
It was mostly advance kind of work.
And that work will be very valuable when and will be updated based on experience we've got with the 787 because a lot of the technologies came out of the 787 development and there'll be -- and that's often the way it works in the aerospace world.
It'll be relooked at and advanced and somewhere down the road after we re-engine an all-new airplane will become the right thing to do.
And we'll be better off at that point because we've done the work we've done over the last 1.5 years than we would be have we not done it.
And next we go to Jon Ostrower with Flight Global.
Can you speak to your credibility and the company's credibility on the current 787 delivery projections? Over the last several years we've really seen the forecasts that are really quite divergent from reality.
Air New Zealand's CFO said last week that he expects the first 787-9 an undefined point in 2014.
What kind of assurances are you giving your stakeholders about your latest plan? Well I mean I think it's -- the way I look at it is the closer we get to the end of certification the better we get the production system in alignment the better we are able to predict and reaffirm the schedules.
Are there some risks? Yes.
This is not an easy business to always get precisely correct as you have noted from time to time.
So the 787-9 just to refresh the 787-9 our guidance is end of '13 okay? That's a delivery.
Air New Zealand is one of the very first customers to get the 787-9.
And it takes a while to induct these things in the service so I don't know if whether there's a disconnect between when we deliver it and the time he takes to get in into the fleet or not.
I don't know what he meant by that.
But we have not changed our schedule.
And in terms of the 737 Airbus is offering their 2 new engine choices as options.
Is the LEAP-X going to be an option for the 737 or are you expecting a full production changeover? I'm sorry are you saying -- are you asking whether we're going to have 2 options on the airplane? No.
Is the customer selection for to go with the re-engined 737 is that going to be a full switchover in production or are you expecting that choice as an option and also in conjunction with today's next-generation 737? That's one of the things we have to sort out as we go through the timing of the requirement of our customers.
It will be obviously an option and we'll dovetail it into the schedule as it makes sense both to us and our customers.
But we don't have that question finally answered yet.
And that will be from Ted Reed with TheStreet.
I have questions about the American order.
The first one is there's been suggestion in some quarters in Wall Street that American's financial situation is precarious so I assume we can take your deal with American as showing strong confidence in American's financial future.
And secondly more importantly Gerard Arpey have said on several occasions that the deal the favorable deal with you and Airbus was enabled partially because American didn't file bankruptcy like its competitors did.
He said our track record certainly had an influence on Boeing and Airbus.
Can you speak to this? Did it have an influence and in what way did it influence the deal? Yes sure.
Yes we have confidence in American Airlines.
It's one of -- this country's and one of the world's great airlines.
But they have been managing a difficult financial equation but they've been doing it well.
And so I think our confidence in them is high but also the confidence in our own hardware is high okay? So in the event of some delays or in the event of some financial turbulence with American we will work with them but we also have confidence that if for some reason they don't need the airplanes then we'll find places to put them.
I don't want to speak for them in terms of how they enable their financial equation.
All I know is that we're working with them in a way that is also mindful of our financial situation and we're doing things that we think can help a good customer but not in anyway impair a very strong balance sheet that we have.
But them not filing bankruptcy make them seem more reliable? It certainly speaks to the strength and focus of that management team.
And I give them high marks for managing through a tough time and keeping the team with them.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentations plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Mr.
Scott Fitterer Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Fitterer please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
I'm Scott Fitterer and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and James Bell Boeing's Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and James we'll take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release in our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this web presentation.
Now I'll turn the conference over to Jim McNerney.
Thanks Scott and good morning everybody.
Let me begin by addressing the current business environment followed by some thoughts on our performance during the quarter.
After that James will walk through our results and then we'd glad to take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
Although the global economy has slowed in recent months and uncertainties such as the European sovereign debt crisis remain we continue to see worldwide expansion in air traffic.
Passenger traffic in particular remains resilient led by trends in emerging markets.
Cargo traffic on the other hand has declined in recent months and that's one area we will watch closely in the months ahead.
Despite this mix of signals strong consumer demand continues for our products and services.
For example through the third quarter we booked 310 orders for the single-aisle 737NG while exceptionally strong twin-aisle demand was led by the 777 with 125 orders across packs [ph] and Freighter models.
We expect order traffic for our current production programs to remain strong through year end with a book-to-bill ratio finishing above one.
Customer interest and demand for the 737 MAX also has been high since we formally launched this new engine variant in August with nearly 500 order commitments.
As we work to finalize those agreements we are having extensive discussions with other customers about the advantages the MAX will bring to today's single-aisle leader in efficiency and performance.
Our Commercial Airplanes backlog has climbed to $273 billion including $20 billion in new orders during the quarter.
With over 3 500 airplanes on order this backlog is diverse by geographic region and product type and more than 2/3 of it is committed from airlines based outside of the U.S.
and Europe.
The strength of this backlog underpins the production rate increases we've planned and announced across our product family.
We are monitoring the European debt situation for potential impacts on the market for financing new airplanes.
But we believe any affect will be manageable and other sources will provide sufficient funding capacity.
Sources of financing for Boeing airplanes are broad and diverse as our planes represent an attractive well-performing asset investment.
In addition current financing costs remain at record low levels for our customers.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security.
Overall global demand for our products and services remains solid with growth in international markets like the Middle East and South Asia working to offset flat to potentially lower defense outlays here at home.
Our baseline assumption for the U.S.
market is that we have entered a period of significant fiscal constraints.
The extent of these constraints will be influenced by the success or failure of the congressional super committee to achieve its $1.2 trillion deficit reduction target.
With $450 billion of defense cuts already envisioned over the next 10 years the industry could face further exposure if the full deficit reduction target is not met and additional cuts automatically kick in.
We are hopeful that the committee members recognize the risks to national security and the health of our defense industrial base as they work through to reach a successful agreement.
Given this environment we believe that our portfolio of proven reliable and affordable products and services provides even more relevant and economically attractive choices for our customers.
Our strategy remains to extend and grow our existing programs capture a larger share of international and services opportunities and invest in growth areas such as unmanned systems cybersecurity and intelligence.
In addition to these objectives our teams are aggressively pursuing all opportunities to improve productivity and reduce overhead and infrastructure costs in support of the Defense Department's affordability initiatives.
These efforts are generating meaningful cost savings for our customers while ensuring the solid operating performance and cash generation we need to fund our investments and growth.
Now turning to the third quarter highlights on Slide 3 please.
As you know this was a significant quarter for us on many fronts one in which we completed development of 2 new commercial aircraft programs and launched a new variant of the most successful airliner in history.
At the same time we did not let up on our core performance which was exceptional across both of our businesses.
Commercial Airplanes posted strong operating results during the period driven by high volume and further productivity gains on production and services programs.
In August both the 787-8 and the 747-8 Freighter completed flight test requirements and received U.S.
and European type certification.
One month ago today in an historic moment for Boeing and the aviation industry we celebrated delivery of the first 787 Dreamliner to ANA.
Notwithstanding the ups and downs along the way this achievement was a tribute to our employees our partner companies and our launch customer for bringing together the talent technology and teamwork to design build test and deliver the most innovative new airplane in the last half-century.
We delivered the second 787 to ANA on October 13.
As we continue to transition the 787 program from development to rate production we are focused on the work at hand and the challenges that remain.
Flight testing on the 787-8 powered by GE engines is approximately 95% complete with ETOPS and function and reliability testing now underway and progressing well.
We are also seeing improvements to the quality productivity and overall condition of the assembly within the production system.
This week we are completing a production rate increase from 2 airplanes per month to 2.5 per month with implementation and ever final assembly.
And elements of the supply chain are already moving toward subsequent rate breaks in the future.
Boeing South Carolina is progressing to plan as production on the first 787 continues in our new final assembly building.
First delivery out of Charleston is on track for next year.
Across the board we are applying a disciplined approach to ensure the health of the 787 production system as we progress through a series of planned upcoming rate increases to achieve 10 airplanes per month by the end of 2013.
Change incorporation on early production airplanes is being tackled methodically in Everett and San Antonio now that certification is behind us and the production configuration has been finalized.
While our updated guidance reflects a few less deliveries by year end the work to be done during change incorporation is well defined and planned for each airplane.
Now it's all about burning down the work while ensuring the quality our customers expect at the time of delivery.
In another significant milestone earlier this month we delivered the first 2 747-8 Freighters to Cargolux.
The first airplane flew straight from our delivery center in Everett to SeaTac Airport where was loaded with cargo and entered revenue service right then and there.
The 747-8 will give cargo operators the lowest operating cost and best economics of any freighter in its class while providing enhanced environmental performance.
As we move forward our Commercial Airplanes team remains intensely focused on production rate increases across our product lines.
We are currently implementing a rate increase on the 737 from today's rate of 31.5 airplanes per month to 35 per month in the beginning of 2012 and plan to increase the rate to 38 per month in the second quarter of 2013 and then up to 42 per month in the first half of 2014.
This represents more than a 30% increase from today's rate.
On the 777 we increased the production rate from 5 to 7 airplanes per month in the second quarter and plan to further increase to 8.3 per month in the first quarter of 2013.
We continue to work closely with our supplier partners to execute these rate increases effectively and efficiently.
Shifting to Defense Space &amp; Security.
This business also generated strong operating results for the quarter delivering 28 military aircraft and one satellite while capturing new and follow-on awards.
Key wins included a contract with the U.K.
Ministry of Defence to provide 14 new CH-47 Chinook helicopters and 5 years of associated support for the Royal Air Force whose fleet will expand to 60 Chinooks now; a contract with the U.S.
Air Force for the full production launch and on-orbit activation of the seventh Wideband Global SATCOM satellite.
This proven and reliable system provides tremendous value for the warfighter while addressing the growing demand for high-speed communication services worldwide.
The contract authorization also included options for 2 additional satellites.
And through a contract signed by the U.S.
Air Force we will provide support and logistics for India's recently announced purchase of 10 C-17s.
A key execution milestone was met during the quarter when the KC-46 Tanker program successfully completed its Integrated Baseline Review with the U.S.
Air Force.
This review validated the program's technical scope and finalized key milestones for the design and development phase of this next-generation aerial refueling tanker.
The program will now focus on the preliminary design review planned for the first quarter of 2012.
To summarize before I turn it over to James we're pleased with the progress we made through 3 quarters of the year.
Our plan is to continue generating robust margins in both of our businesses although going forward current market pressures in particular on pension expense and an increased mix of deliveries on both 787 and the 747-8 will have a dilutive impact to margins.
In the face of these pressures we expect our strong core performance to continue as our production and services programs are performing well.
We have had -- we have the right products for our markets at the right time and our people possess a relentless drive to improve productivity to fund investments in our future.
Combine all of that with a total backlog of $332 billion and a strong presence in global markets it adds up to a significant opportunity for growth in the years ahead.
Now over to James who will discuss the third quarter results and our outlook.
James? Thank you Jim and good morning.
I'll begin with our third quarter results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the quarter was $17.7 billion up 4% from a year ago due to higher delivery volumes and mix.
Net earnings were $1.46 per share up 30% from last year while operating margins were 9.7%.
This reflects the higher revenue as well as our continued strong performance across all our businesses offsetting a $0.09 per share increase in pension expense.
Now let's move to BCA results on Slide 5.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes' third quarter revenue was $9.5 billion an increase of 9% from last year reflecting higher airplane deliveries improved mix and continued strength in the services business.
Commercial operating margins were 11.4% in line with the year ago.
With the first delivery of the 787 program occurring in September we have established the initial accounting quantity for the program at 1 100 units consistent with our company's standard process for establishing accounting quantity.
Over the next 20 years we estimate the addressable market for the 787 class of airplanes at 5 000 units.
At current plan production rates the initial quantity of 1 100 units represents approximately 10 years of production.
This time horizon is in line with previous initial quantities for new programs.
The program method of accounting amortizes unit production cost and tooling over the accounting quantity.
A fundamental principle in applying program accounting is the ability to reliably estimate the revenues and associated costs for the defined program quantity.
At the end of the quarter the 787 had 821 units sold firm approximately 200 options on contract and long-term supplier pricing agreements in place all which provide a strong basis for estimates.
Our initial gross margin booking rate on the 787 is in the low single digits which takes in consideration the cumulative impacts of delays and near-term production challenges.
Program profitability will be assessed quarterly as part of our disciplined EAC process.
Gross inventory for the company now includes $18 billion related to the 787 work-in-process supplier advances tooling and other non-recurring costs an increase of approximately $1.8 billion during the quarter.
Included in work-in-process are deferred production costs which represents the difference between the higher production costs experienced on earlier units principally driven by learning and average program costs over the accounting quantity for both airplanes delivered and in work-in-process.
At the end of the third quarter the deferred balance was $9.7 billion and included over 40 units still in process.
The deferred production balance will continue to grow as we increase production rates and introduce the 787-9 derivative.
When the program achieves and stabilizes at the rate of 10 airplanes per month we expect deferred production costs to begin to decline and over time unit margins will exceed program margins.
Also during the quarter we extended the accounting quantity on the 777 by 50 units which did not have a significant financial impact in the quarter.
Commercial Airplanes won 301 gross orders during the quarter including 243 737s and 55 777s.
We also had 46 cancellations during the quarter.
Now moving to Slide 6 in our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported third quarter revenues of $8.2 billion which was in line with the year ago.
Operating margins were 10% up from a year ago reflecting continued strong operating performance.
Boeing Military Aircraft revenue rose 5% to $4 billion for the quarter on improved delivery mix.
Operating margins were 10% up over last year's reflecting continued strong operating performance and the changes in delivery mix.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenues of $2.3 billion were down slightly from last year due to funding reduction in Brigade Combat Team Modernization partially offset by higher satellite revenues.
Operating margins were 7.9% for the quarter higher than last year due to improved performance on commercial satellite programs.
Global Services &amp; Support revenues decreased 4% to $2 billion for the quarter due to the current U.S.
Government defense environment.
Operating margins were 12.7% up over last year due to improved performance in integrated logistics.
Defense Space &amp; Security maintained a solid backlog of $59 billion.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 in our other businesses.
Boeing Capital reported $19 million of pretax earnings in the quarter as good operating performance was partially offset by lower revenues and asset impairments.
The portfolio balance at quarter end was $4.3 billion down on normal runoff in modest asset sales.
Other segment earnings improved driven by a $141 million reduction in the allowance for losses related to financing receivables while unallocated expenses increased due to a onetime adjustment on post-retirement -- retiree medical of $161 million and higher pension expense.
Now let's turn to Slide 8 and talk about cash flow.
During the quarter we generated $400 million of cash flow.
This reflects the strong operational performance from our production and services programs offset by the continued investment in our development program and a $500 million contribution to our pension plan.
Let's go to slide 9.
Our cash and liquidity position remains strong as we ended the quarter with $9.2 billion of cash and marketable securities.
During the quarter Boeing Capital issued $750 million of new long-term debt to take advantage of current favorable market rates and pre-fund debt maturing earlier next year.
Our current cash levels provide us with strong liquidity as we head into 2012.
We will continue to execute our disciplined cash management strategy and are well positioned to support the ramp-up of both our mature production programs and those transitioning from development to production.
Now let's turn to Slide 10 and look at our outlook.
Our earnings per share guidance for 2011 is now between $4.30 and $4.40 per share reflecting the continued strong core performance across all our businesses.
We now expect Commercial Airplanes to deliver approximately 480 airplanes during the year with a combined 15 to 20 787 and 747-8 deliveries.
Approximately 2/3 of those deliveries are expected to be 747-8.
Revenue guidance for the year is narrowed to between $68 million and $70 million -- $68 billion and $70 billion due to the lower deliveries on the 787 and the 747-8 programs.
R&amp;D expenses for 2011 remained unchanged at $3.7 billion to $3.9 billion.
With certification of the 787-8 and the 747-8 Freighter programs we expect R&amp;D expense in 2012 to decrease by approximately $300 million to $500 million.
Commercial Airplanes' R&amp;D efforts next year will be primarily driven by the 787-9 and the 737 MAX.
We continue to expect operating cash flow for the year to be greater than $2.5 billion and now expect 2011 capital expenditures to be approximately $1.7 billion.
Total company noncash pension expense is now expected to be $1.7 billion for 2011.
Now we are monitoring potential impacts to our 2012 pension expense driven by current interest rates and market conditions.
To date the return on our pension assets is approximately 6% which is higher than the overall equity market year-to-date performance and in line with our assumed 7.75% return for the full year.
The discount rate has declined to about 4.5% which is below our assumed rate of 5.3%.
As a result our 2012 noncash pension expense is now expected to be $2.6 billion.
Included in this expense is the amortization of asset and liability performance experienced in prior periods.
Approximately $1.6 billion of this amount would be recognized at the business unit level and the remainder in unallocated expense.
Required pension funding remains minimal in 2012 although we may consider larger discretionary contributions during the year.
Commercial Airplane revenue is now expected to be between $36 billion and $37 billion for the year on lower deliveries of the 787 and the 747-8 programs partially offset by higher services revenue.
Commercial operating margin guidance has been increased to between 9% and 9.5% reflecting the continued strong performance on production and service programs and the lower 787 and 747-8 deliveries.
Defense Space &amp; Security revenue guidance remains unchanged at between $31.5 billion and $32.5 billion.
Operating margins are now expected to be between 9% and 9.5%.
This reflects the strong performance and execution to date partially offset by anticipated fourth quarter productivity investments.
We now expect the other segment expense for the year to be approximately $100 million and unallocated expense for the year to be about $1 billion driven by the lower allowance for losses and the post-retiree medical adjustments mentioned earlier.
The effective tax rate forecast for 2011 is unchanged at approximately 34%.
We expect the tax rate in 2012 to be approximately 35% due to the reduced R&amp;D spending and the resulting lower R&amp;D credit.
We plan to provide 2012 financial guidance with our fourth quarter results.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jim? Thanks James.
With certification and first deliveries of the 787 and 747-8 behind us our clear priority is on executing the ramp-up and production across all our Commercial Airplane programs while continuing to drive competitiveness and targeted growth in our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Development program execution on the KC-46 Tanker and the 737 MAX among others also moves to center stage to ensure we deliver on the innovation our customers expect within the time lines and the budgets we signed up for.
Overall despite some mixed economic signals and an uncertain U.S.
defense market the outlook we have for Boeing today is strongly positive.
Our markets are large and growing our backlog is increasing we are performing well and we are financially strong.
Our teams are focused on the work at hand and determined to succeed in accelerating our momentum into 2012 and beyond.
With that said we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the 787 in terms of the ramp-up.
And just I guess are your assumptions still that you'll get to 10 a month at the end 2013? And I'm just trying to think about what the implications might be to the profitability of the block if that shifts out a quarter or 2? Well we are planning on getting there by 2013 as I mentioned in my remarks.
We just went through a rate break.
We're positioning for the next one.
It's a matter of knowing what we've got to do and just putting one foot in front of the other and getting it done.
That's the kind of execution mode we're in right now.
The -- if it did slip a quarter or so James could probably answer the question better than I.
But I don't believe that would have a significant implication on either the accounting quantity or the profitability assumption.
You got...
That's true yes.
Your next will be Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch on the 747-8.
And you've had some delays there and we're looking at 2 things I think.
One a very weak airfreight market right now as well as it appears some challenges you've had in terms of weight and engine fuel burn at least with the first couple of customers.
Can you comment on do you see the same trajectory in terms of deliveries that you saw say a quarter ago now given those 2 concerns? Doug yes the answer -- the quick answer is yes.
We don't have a changed view.
The last couple of months there has been some softening but the path on these growth curves often up and down quarter-by-quarter.
But the facts are we're still -- when you sum up the year so far we're still ahead of last year even though it's low single digits.
So it is a watch item as I said in my remarks but not ready to conclude that there's a fundamental change in our market assumption at all.
And yes I mean there -- we're working through weight and fuel burn issues.
Every confidence of getting there.
Full visibility with our customers.
GE is very close to our customers as they're working to deliver the airplanes against the performance that they've promised.
So I think none of that changes our view of the program.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But are you finding customers who -- many of whom may have some overcapacity right now given the state of the market? Are you having discussions that they may want some sort of delay here? I mean I think this is a very different situation than you see in the past in your market today.
Yes I mean I think not really.
I mean I think the customers when they come out of the Christmas season it's not -- it's -- sometimes there's some discussions about a secular versus a seasonal change and that may cause a customer or 2 to want to push out weeks and months not years.
But no nothing more than the usual kind of chatter.
And next we go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get my head around the economics on 787 a little bit.
If we think about what -- around what airplane number will the revenue generated by an airplane actually be more than the cost to build it in just economic terms? Yes I think the way you want to look at that is when we get up the rate and we stabilize and we start running.
So you think after 13 we get to 10 and we run for a year 1.5 years 2 years you're going to see there at that demarcation point where that event will occur Ron.
And off hand I don't know what unit number that is but it's in that time frame.
Research Division</strong> But it's once you kind of get to 10 a month and things stabilize out? Absolutely.
A lot of these things happen when you get there.
We'll go to Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just James a couple of points of clarification on the accounting disclosures I'm hoping you can help us with.
The first the BCA unit versus program differences were just shy of $300 million.
Can you tell us how much of that was 787? Or is this 787 was actually larger than that and offset by the other programs? And secondly on the $9.7 billion in initial deferred production that you referenced what sort of differential do you see for the early units in that 40-some-odd quantity versus the later units in terms of the contribution to that total? Is it 2x or 1.5x? Any color there would be really helpful.
So on the first part of that it was driven principally by the -- obviously the 787 in terms of units being down.
Research Division</strong> Was the 78 larger than the total? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It was not larger.
The -- would you repeat your second question? I sort of lost track of it as you -- with it.
Research Division</strong> So the $9.7 billion in deferred you said it covered 40-some-odd airplanes.
If you were to look at the early units in that block of airplanes versus the later units in terms of like which -- where they were produced what sort of differential in terms of the contribution to that $9.7 billion is there if I were to compare unit 3 to unit 45? Is it double is it 1/2? How much more cost is in those early ones than the late ones? Clearly the earlier airplanes were more costly because they were built more outside of the production process.
And as we move through time and the assembly completes and some supply chain and the process starts to work as it was designed to work the cost will go down.
I don't know if it's 2x or 3x.
But clearly the earlier planes are a lot more expensive.
Now the deferred production cost also is not just for the airplanes that are in there.
It's was -- all the airplanes are -- well not just the ones that were completed but the one that was delivered also was in there as well.
But obviously more expensive early on get better over time.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple more for you on the 87 accounting.
James has the block size changed? I mean internally you've been I think running with a number the last few years as you compute whether you're in a forward loss position or not.
So has that moved up or down the -- before settling on the 1 100 here? I don't if you're going to answer the second one but if the block had been 1 000 would you have been in a forward loss or not? So let me just start with we had never set the accounting block number before which means we've never gone to the discipline application of the process and going through with all the data working our way through the analysis to arrive at what the accounting block size we announced at 1 100.
So we've never done that.
Obviously we did assume -- we had an assumption that we used to help us to determine whether or not we were in a forward reach.
And that assumption was a little more conservative.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how about just the second part of the question? If it had been 1 000 units would you have been in a forward reach? We never went through the detailed discussion or analysis to predict what it would have been Joe.
We went through that analysis the number came out as 1 100 units.
So it's hard to say for certain.
But obviously we were concerned prior to announcement because as I mentioned here earlier we were using a conservative number to determine whether we were in a reach prior to setting that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well since I didn't keep tally [ph] let me throw -- one from the outside [ph] at you.
The Chinese situation that popped up over the last couple of weeks the cancellation you had there can you provide any detail as to whether that's just airline specific or if there's a certification issue on the plane? I would use another C word.
I would use the conversion.
Actually they converted from the 787 to 737 as they concentrate on growing their capacity in the domestic markets and move away from growing -- actually expanding what they traditionally do in terms of the global market.
So I don't think there was anything associated with the airplane at all relative to that conversion.
Our next question is from Troy Lahr with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim I just had a big-picture question for you.
Are you seeing a change in behavior among airlines in the fleet commonalities having less significance? It seems like we're seeing more or more split purchases between you and Airbus.
Really are you guys worried that airlines are really no longer committed to one builder based on the fleet mix? Well as airlines -- short answer is haven't seen a big change in behavior.
But as airlines get bigger and combine and their route structures become more complex arguments remains for differing technology applied to different routes.
I mean I think the United Continental and the Air France-KLM orders which were split reflect that a little bit.
And it's hard to predict whether that trend which essentially adds up to no change before the combination whether that trend will continue or you'll see more consolidated buying or not hard to predict.
But right now quite frankly I've seen somewhat less change that I would have thought.
And we'll go to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I actually want to talk about international for a moment.
The challenge of getting some of these announced orders on to a contract is that small? Might you be able to help us a little bit for example of what you expect on India? And I guess there's still an F-15 order out there of some magnitude and probably some other opportunities.
You got part of India done with the service contract but I don't believe the rest of it is on for C-17.
Yes the international order cycle time is always longer than the cycle time or often longer I should say not always than what we might be more used to in the budgeting process here.
Just to cut to the chase I mean we remain confident that the F-15 order in the Middle East that you referenced that we've already got the first contractual step on the Apaches and some of the sustainment as part of a broader effort there.
C-17s in India the 10 are pretty solid.
We just sustainment around the 10.
Quite frankly there may be more after that.
So I guess at the end of the day while it -- while there is somewhat more Rolaids consumed while we go through the process we remain confident that those orders we've highlighted to you are going to come home.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted you to realize that it just isn't only 787 that can consume Rolaids.
Yes you're right.
Thanks for letting everybody else know.
Appreciate that.
And we'll go to Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> James going back to the unit margin comment before and to primarily 787 based I would think that suggests the delivery of aircraft had a cost of roughly $400 million.
It was unit 8 or 9 I believe.
And if you're going to be at about the 400 aircraft at the point you're talking about for breakeven on average cost versus actual cost does this suggest then it's about -- is it linear? Is it about I don't know $0.75 million per aircraft in reduction as we go? Well I don't think this is normal as you would normally see on a normal learning curve.
Because of the fact that we've had a lot of -- we have a lot of airplanes that were in production as we were still in the development process we have -- and we had the issues on the front end of building those airplanes I think you're going to see a steeper drop down to a normal learning curve after we get to those initial problems.
And we're basically getting through those now.
And that's what you're going to see.
So I think learning curve-wise it'll be pretty normal and pretty consistent with what we saw in 777 we'll just get down it faster.
And that's why we believe we will be around where we need to be cost-wise on the units that we produce starting out at 10 -- as we get to 10 and stabilize after 2013.
Research Division</strong> So we could see a ratio like a 50% drop in unit cost over 20% or 25% at a time first 100 aircraft something like that? I think you'll see a steeper drop over the first 100-or-so airplanes than you would traditionally see and then it will stabilize to normal after that in terms of the learning curve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a point of clarification on the R&amp;D.
It looks like your guidance implies flattish BCA R&amp;D in Q4 around $600 million I think.
And so is the decline for next year off of that kind of number? Or would you see another sequential decrease like the $150 million you saw in Q3 -- No we're down -- we're going to be down a bit in 4.
And what you're seeing is complete support costs will start and will go up a little.
But maybe that's where you're getting the confusion.
But it'll continue to decline going into the next year.
And next we go to the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm going to also have the defense questions.
I'm going to pursue a little bit the issue on the international defense front.
And also on the U.S.
domestic I have a defense question.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> The turn on that Saudi F-15 yet as you -- we've all been seeing that they have been lagging in signing on the deal.
And now the crown prince has just -- since he was also the defense minister last week it almost certainly guarantees that any progress lapses into 2012.
And what I am concerned at least I want to get your thinking on is the problem with 2012 is the presidential election year and the Saudis may be wiser to spend a political -- a powerful political chip like that after the outcomes of election.
So as we think forward how do we think about your outlook for 2012 and '13 from a cash flow and defense sales perspective if we see this 15 continue to stand out or to slip? And what have you already spent on the F-15 for Saudi? Well Heidi the -- all the dynamics that I see including the death of the crown prince point toward an earlier rather than later resolution favorable resolution of this.
I think the -- our government is already clearly behind this.
There are detailed discussions that are ongoing.
And there's nothing I've learned that says the kind of dynamic that you worry about and then there are -- there have been times that I worried about of pushing it out -- every dynamic has convinced me that it's a nearer-term versus a longer-term resolution.
And we remain confident that it's going to happen.
Now obviously I'm summarizing a host of inputs and a host of interactions and we're all intently focused at -- but that's my summary.
That's my takeaway.
And of course we do have some investment in the supply chain which -- and we wouldn't have made it if we weren't confident that it was going to come home.
And we're all hopeful this thing will get done over the next short-term time frame.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the second part on the U.S.
-- the domestic side.
Lockheed just revealed that the Pentagon appears to be balking at paying for concurrency.
Is there any risk to Boeing programs in any kind of a similar fashion such as the P-8 or tanker? What does concurrency mean in that sense Heidi? I'm not sure what you mean by that.
Research Division</strong> Continuing to work on -- they're working on the F-35.
And as they have been incurring costs on -- as they learn things on the program they go back and fix the prior plans and that's always been borne by the U.S.
Government.
Now it looks like the Pentagon wants industry to shoulder that.
So we're just wondering if you could talk about some of the things you might be seeing on the Pentagon trying to spread more risk on to you versus what's traditionally been borne by them.
And again the most active thing I would think about would be a new program you're working on like the P-8 or tanker.
Yes.
I mean I think we're at the -- we do see an overall trend which is tighter contracting incrementally more risk on the contractor.
And I think we all see that.
The tanker is a good example of that kind of program.
And that's why we spend a lot more time and thought before entering into some of those contracts.
Now we have not seen -- and I would also say that a number of these programs that are analogous to the F-35 like our -- the erstwhile Future Combat Systems the satellite program and elements of the missile defense program we've already gone through a lot of the lead contract characterization and a scaling back of the program and we're sort of left with a mix right now of production programs whether it's in low-rate production in the case of P-8 that you mentioned or whether a full-rate production in the case of F-15s F-18s our satellite programs which are very healthy our helicopter programs.
We're down to a pretty stable group of programs where we don't have the kind of issue where we have stable contracting.
So I think we have somewhat less of that risk even though your overall observation is right.
And we go to Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Big-picture question Jim for you on the macro environment and the competitive environment with your customers.
Yes can you describe to us what types of environment is in the macro or in the competitive landscape with the airlines that would preclude you from being able to push your production rate ramps that you have planned as high as you'd like them to go? Like what would that world look like that would keep you from being able to increase your production rates? Yes I mean a lot of the rationale between -- behind increasing our production rate relates to backlog we've already got not totally.
But so there's -- we have a substantial amount of the backlog already in place that supports those production increases.
Now having said that I think it would take a kind of a shock to the system that we don't see.
And that -- you could come up with a scenario probably as easily I could.
I mean if you wanted to paint of scenario of a $175 a barrel of oil and then a disorderly sovereign debt resolution in Europe that cripples their economy for 5 years and a bitter partisan fight in the United States that lessens confidence rather than increases I mean you could -- a huge market crash I mean you can come with a scenario.
We don't -- based on what we see we don't see that.
But there is a scenario that could force us to scale back.
But we don't see it.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a real quick follow-on to that and I'll let you go.
Sure sure.
Research Division</strong> The macro environment that we're in today you suggest supports the production rate increases that you have in front of you.
What kind of cushion do you think is in that? If macro environment decelerated to a certain level would you potentially feel less comfortable about that statement? Yes.
I mean I think one way to answer it is as I said a lot of it is supported by orders we have in place.
That's number one.
And number two I don't think we're overreaching demand we see out there.
Rather I see us following demand that we see out there with some margin because we do make assumptions on melt away of old backlog and new backlog.
So we're not stretching -- we're not trying to take huge market share.
We're not stretching into these assumptions.
These are pretty conservative business assumptions.
So there's some margin in it.
Is there enough margin for a cataclysmic scenario? I don't think there ever is.
And we'll go to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So looking at your block assumption of 1 100 planes 10 years it looked like you're assuming you get up to 10 a month and you stay at that rate.
And given James that you said you expect to have the deferred production costs start to come down once you get to that rate and then production has stabilized I mean that's -- you're going to be at that rate a long time.
So should we assume the stabilization occurs relatively shortly thereafter i.e.
at some point in 2014? Or could that stabilization take until 2016? What have you assumed? I would assume '15 more than '14 but early.
So I think we're going to get there.
And right now that's our assumption.
We stay at 10.
Obviously we will look at opportunities depending on what the market says to us as to whether we can go above it or not.
But right now that's what we're assuming.
So in terms of that assumption I would look at late '14 early '15 for it to be stable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And you obviously -- as you're building those deferred production costs it's kind of a call on your cash flow and you have a fairly large number $9.7 billion.
What should we assume that impact will be on your cash flow in 2012? And kind of what sort of a range should we look at for 2012 for total cash flow? Yes I think we're guiding you to $2.5 billion over $2.5 billion in operating cash this year.
We expect it to be significantly better next year as we start delivering the 87s and the 47s in volume.
Our next question is from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First a quick clarification Jim.
I think you said 737 getting to 35 a month by the start of 2012.
And I think in mid-October you had a release that said you were getting there or were at that rate.
Can you just clarify that? I think it's sort of starting versus completing.
That might be the -- I don't remember what I said.
But the elements of our supply chain are already working on getting to 35.
But -- and we -- I think we mentioned some components that we were beginning to work on as far as assembly or something like that.
But the actual output out of final assembly at rate is early 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And James on the deferred production inventory it seems like if we're trying to infer a learning curve we're going to have a kind of a mask because you have post-certification re-work going on as well as whatever is actually coming off the line.
When do we get a better picture? Or essentially when does the post-certification re-work blend into the background so that the kind of deferred inventory build is a true reflection of what's going on? Yes after 45 airplanes.
I think when you start looking at some of the airplanes that are in process today we are already starting to get a glimpse of it as we have 50 in South Carolina and 46 I think in Everett.
So -- but there are significantly more costs associated with these first 40 airplanes as we build them out of sequence.
And so that's why we believe once we digest those the learning curve will go down sharply to traditional learning curve levels earlier than you would normally see on a traditionally ran program where you didn't have concurrent production with development.
Research Division</strong> But their contribution to deferred production is going to say heavy over the next couple of years? No.
Some of that -- it's going to -- it's there now and it's just not going to be ran off until we start delivering in significant quantities.
Our next question is from Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I was wondering if you could comment on the pricing environment at BCA particularly with regard to narrow bodies and how the MAX is initially fairing in the market.
I think we're seeing typical -- there's some typical launch-type pricing but I think it's more characterized by stability to be honest with you when you look at the narrow-body market.
I see more stability when you discount some launch pricing.
And put that off to the side I'd say stability would be the characterization in the narrow-body market.
LLC Research Division</strong> What about on the 777? I mean do you see strong demand there? Are you getting maybe above average pricing on that aircraft? Yes.
I mean I think pricing is never good enough.
But having said that when you have a unique offering that your competition doesn't have a ready answer for there are worse pricing environments than that.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will be from Ken Herbert with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just want to -- James and Jim you mentioned a few times the services business within BCA and I'm sure it's a -- I know it's an area you've been putting significant capital into.
Can you just help me understand its impact on the stronger margins and your thinking around this business heading into 2012? Well there is a small mix effect in the margins.
I think the overall characterization though of -- or explanation of those margins is more influenced by operating efficiency and very very sound and good manufacturing and engineering execution okay? I would say that's the bigger explanation.
But I think one of the reasons we're interested in driving the services business other than having yet another solution for our customers is that in general it has a favorable operating margin-mix impact.
And it is growing faster than the core business although the core business is beginning to catch up as we ramp up production so it'll be a horse race.
And ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now return you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We'll continue now with the questions for Jim and James.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
[Operator Instructions].
And first go to Mike Mecham with Aviation Week.
Can you tell us a little bit about progress on the 737 MAX where you are on releasing your basic design which you want to accomplish with the program like on engine et cetera? And also how far along you are in planning where it will be built? I couldn't hear the last part Michael.
What -- where -- how far along are you and how is the planning coming in the production issues of exactly where it'll be built and how you'll handle the increased production? Yes.
I mean I think we've got pretty good fidelity on what the offering is and we're finalizing that.
We've obviously had enough confidence in the performance of the airplane to have preliminary agreements with a number of airlines and deep discussions with others.
So I would say it's settling down quickly in terms of the details and so on.
I'm happy with the progress on the design and the reaction of our customers to the design.
I think we're still in the process -- as to the second part of your question we're still thinking through where we would produce it.
And we'll go to Susanna Ray with Bloomberg News.
I have a couple of questions about the 787 program.
I think you guys were asked earlier about the Chinese cancellations and China Eastern I believe it was said they would convert to 737s.
But it was China Southern I believe who said that they might go ahead and outright cancel because the first delivery there has been pushed back to July from year end so I'm wondering what the holdup is for the Chinese market.
I think you -- I wasn't sure whether you were asking a question about China Eastern but it sounded like you perfectly understood it.
It was a change in the airline's business model driving substitution for 73s.
I'm not sure about China Southern.
I'm not sure where that discussion is coming from.
Okay they -- yes they said that they a couple of weeks ago said that they would consider canceling because of a delay from year end to July sort of certification issue.
We've had no discussions that I'm aware of that contemplate a change.
Okay.
And then Air India apparently is considering canceling more than half of its orders dropping down to 12 from 27.
So I'm just wondering that combined with the China Eastern conversion I'm wondering when the 787 backlog will start expanding instead of decreasing.
So what's your question? When will the 787 backlog start expanding? When will you start getting more orders than cancellations? Yes we're sold out.
And soon as we get spaces in the production skyline available we'll start selling them again.
Okay.
Yes.
You know when that might be? Yes we got to follow up production rate deliver airplanes as we're planning.
And as it begins to get into the planning horizon of our airlines they'll start ordering again.
Right now we're sold out through 2019.
That's a long time to think about placing new orders.
So it'll -- it's probably going to take a little time.
Next we'll go to Brendan Kearney with the Post and Courier.
I'm hoping you can give something of a South Carolina-centric update.
You talked a little bit about the 787 ramp-up.
And the 737 MAX question the location was asked.
What can you tell us about the status of the negotiations with the NLRB? I think everything that is publicly understood is pretty much where we are with the NLRB.
We're in the midst of an administrative process and we're just walking through it with the NLRB.
We obviously disagree with the process but that's the way it is.
So I don't think there's anything I know that you don't know on that one.
And we'll go to Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
I was wondering if you could say anything more about specifically why the delivery forecast for the 787s and the 747s was reduced for 2011.
I mean is that -- was that 100% 787 re-work issues? Or are there other causes at play there? No no.
It's all the re-work on the early airplanes.
We're just methodically going through the re-work that was driven by flight test discoveries and other engineering changes that we needed to get through and it's just a matter of walking through it.
No real change in the configuration of the airplane.
As we mentioned earlier we are breaking to a higher rate on productions.
So I think it's simply a matter of timing I guess I would say.
Okay.
And in terms of the breakdown between the 2 airplanes it's all 787? I mean none of that reduction comes on the 747 side? No it's a mix.
The guidance we're providing is a mix of the 2 airplanes.
And next we go to Dominic Gates Seattle Times.
I'm hoping you can give me just a couple of numbers actually.
First of all James you talked about deferred production costs disappearing by early 2015.
I think that means positive cash flow from that moment on.
Can you then tell us at what stage you reach I think it's called 0 margin as various analysts have been predicting that on that 2015 positive cash flow you could get to 0 margin by 2021.
Is that where you see it? Dominic first of all I didn't say it would go away by 2015.
I had said that would turn over where unit margins would be equal or greater than program margins.
So that means we're starting to turn the corner on it.
And it's not growing it's now starting to go down.
But it doesn't go away for a long time.
But in that same time period we would start seeing as production stabilized we're positive cash and positive on earnings.
So that's what I said.
Okay.
And would that then get you to 0 margins around 2021? Is that about right? If you're looking at breakeven from a program standpoint we will start experiencing it around -- it'll go a little longer than that but around that same time frame.
But from a cash standpoint that is really what the analyst focus on and what we focus on.
And in that time frame is when we'll start seeing it really get positive.
If I could ask one more number.
It's -- in relation to the re-work you talked about the first 40 airplanes and how much weaker it will be after that.
But the United airplane that just rolled off has to go through change incorp.
And I'm wondering what's the first airplane? What line number will you not have to go through change incorp? Well there -- Dominic this is Jim.
The vast majority of the change incorp is on the first 40 45 airplanes which is not to say there might not be some re-finish and some re-work on planes after that.
But I think our plan is not soon after the 50 60 mark.
We're pretty much in the clear.
But we'll have to see when we get there.
But it's looking like -- it's looking pretty clean after that.
And we'll go to Christopher Drew with the New York Times.
James in listening to the past calls when all the analysts peppered you with questions about whether 787 was in a forward loss or whatever I always kind pictured your team crunching all these numbers practically on a supercomputer trying to figure it out.
So I was kind of intrigued when you said in the past it's been estimates you haven't run all these numbers before.
Can you talk a little bit more about how you got to the 1 100 number? And also does the fact that you said you relied on a conservative estimate in the past imply that it would have been profitable over a smaller base than the 1 100? So let me go back and be sure I'm clear on what I -- what you heard and what I really said.
What I said is we haven't gone through the detailed process of setting the accounting quantity until we made our first delivery.
So this is the first time we've gone through and it's a very complicated calculation of trying to understand what market is and then validate market so that you can convert it to a revenue estimate.
Then also going through all your supply all the production costs associated with creating the aircraft and if you can estimate them over a certain number of units.
And as I mentioned we have these long-term pricing agreements.
We can do that.
And then finally it's your capacity to produce them over the time frame.
We have not gone through that detailed analysis up until now.
So that's how -- we've never set the accounting quantity until now.
And it's set at 1 100 first and foremost.
But we also until we got to first delivery we had to go do an analysis to assure ourselves we weren't in a forward reach.
And that is what we have been doing before.
And as it turned out we happen to be using something that was a little bit more conservative than the actual first accounting quantity unit size.
So you were making assumptions estimates of all these various variables that you now just crunched more fully? No.
Again we've had to go through and do a very -- again on a quarterly basis before delivery we had to go through a pretty detailed analysis to assure ourselves that we weren't on a forward reach.
So we did that.
But the -- remember the actual setting the accounting quantity is different than establishing profitability if profitability will ultimately fall out of it.
But they're 2 different things.
And so we had to make an assumption in terms of our initial determination of whether we're in a reach or not of an accounting quantity not having gone through the detail but it's not back of the envelope.
Clearly we've sold 800-plus and we have price options for over 200 in a market that's sizable and over 5 000 units.
So we used that and made an assumption and we did that determination before formally establishing the initial accounting quantity size.
Operator we have them for one last question.
And that will be with Aubrey Cohen Seattle P-I.
I wanted to ask about the 737 MAX whether you're seeing from airlines interest in converting existing 737 orders or whether it's interest for all new orders.
It's interesting.
We're seeing strong interest in both.
And most of the orders we're discussing with people have a mix of both the new one -- the MAX as well as the NGs.
So the NGs remain an answer for the productivity needs of airlines compared to the older fleet that they're working off.
And so I'm hopeful with the signs I'm seeing out there there'll be a nice bridge from the NG to the MAX and that's what the data is suggesting right now.
Okay.
And let me quickly follow up.
Certain analyst data sort of suggested that it was kind of madness to think that you could keep increasing production rates of one airplane right up until you launch an updated version of that.
Is that something that is rational from your point of view? Well yes.
Like I just said I mean I think the productivity and capability that an NG has versus the fleets that people are replacing them with are -- means that there is independent demand for that airplane as well as an improved version of that airplane.
And so there are people who would rather have the NGs in the meantime as -- and moving to the MAX later rather than go through a bathtub of an old airplane for the next 5 years where they have no productivity and very high fuel costs.
So we're in this sweet spot where we're seeing demand for both.
And that concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have additional questions please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Mr.
Scott Fitterer Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Fitterer please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Call.
I'm Scott Fitterer and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer Elect.
After comments by Jim and Greg we'll take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of the web presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thanks Scott and good morning everybody.
I'll begin with a few brief comments on the business environment followed by some thoughts on our strong performance during 2011.
After that Greg will walk through our financial results and our 2012 outlook.
And then we'd be glad as always to take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
While global economic growth slowed during 2011 air transportation remained notably resilient on balance adjusting to various regional economic impacts throughout the year.
Passenger traffic grew at a pace slightly above the long-term average while cargo traffic was flat for the year and even saw declines in recent months.
With load factors at record highs and utilization rates near prior peak levels we expect passenger growth rates to remain in line with historical trends during 2012.
Growth in cargo traffic is expected to trend below the historical average although we expect to see improvement in the second half of this year.
Emerging markets continue to fuel worldwide airline fleet expansion.
Demand in developed markets also remains high driven by retirement and replacement of older less efficient airplanes.
The combination of strong demand and our customer-preferred line of more fuel-efficient products and services generated orders in 2011 that significantly exceeded our initial expectations.
Our orders were balanced across programs geographic regions and airplane business models.
Twin-aisle demand was exceptionally strong with the 777 reaffirming its market leadership with a record 200 net orders across both passenger and freighter models.
The 767 program also had a big year extending its production well into the next decade with the U.S.
Air Force tanker contract and signing an important order for new freighters with FedEx.
On the single-aisle side we capped the year and a series of major wins with our largest Commercial Airplane order ever: the $19 billion deal with Southwest Airlines for 208 737NG and MAX airplanes.
Customer response to the 737 MAX accelerated rapidly through the fall and orders and commitments now total more than 1 000 airplanes from 15 customers.
We anticipate finalizing most of these arrangements this year.
The rapid uptake on the MAX since its August launch has validated our decision to address this important market segment with the solution our customers want along with the time line they need and an airplane that maintains a sizeable economic advantage over its competitors.
With $75 billion in new orders for the year Commercial Airplanes' backlog grew by $40 billion to a record $296 billion further solidifying the unprecedented growth opportunity we have in front of us.
While we continue to monitor the European debt crisis we foresee a manageable situation for aircraft financing in 2012.
Boeing airplanes are attractive value-creating assets and sources of financing for them remain broad and diverse.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security.
Despite growing constraints on U.S.
government spending plans we were pleased with the results of the fiscal year 2012 budget process and the level of funding approved for Boeing programs.
Our portfolio of proven affordable and reliable systems and services continues to advantage us in U.S.
and international markets.
While tough contracting conditions and flat to declining budgets will continue to characterize the U.S.
defense budget -- the U.S.
defense market we foresee significant upside potential in international markets which we expect will generate 25% to 30% of revenues within just a few years and offer an opportunity to offset domestic reductions.
Our core strategies for Defense Space &amp; Security are as I've described them before: extend our existing programs by bringing capability and affordability to our customers; capture a growing share of international opportunities; and continue investments in expanding target markets such as unmanned systems cybersecurity and intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance.
These strategies along with a relentless effort to maximize efficiencies and reduce infrastructure costs in support of the Defense Department's affordability initiatives will ensure continued success in the current environment and maintain our ability to invest in the future and respond to customer needs.
In summary despite pockets of economic uncertainty and defense budget pressures our markets remain large and growing in the aggregate.
We are exceptionally well positioned for growth in the expanding commercial airplane market and we are taking the right steps to maintain a competitive advantage in our Defense Space &amp; Security segment.
Turning to the fourth quarter and overall 2011 highlights on Slide 3.
2011 was a pivotal year for our company where we made substantial progress on our business strategies and delivered strong operating performance across our core production and services programs.
Commercial Airplanes generated 9.7% margins delivered 477 airplanes and recorded net orders for 805 airplanes.
It also retired key technical and business risks for the certification and initial deliveries of the 787 and 747-8.
It was a long tough road on both of those programs but we got there.
And thanks to the relentless determination and ingenuity of our people and the support of our program partners we have created 2 new airplanes that will deliver significant value to our customers and company for decades to come.
The 787s in service with launch customer ANA are performing well with high dispatch liability rates and a favorable passenger response to the features and capabilities of the airplane.
Our priority on the 787 now is to ensure a disciplined ramp-up in production and to increase deliveries to our consumers.
Although we fell short of our targeted 87 deliveries for 2011 transition to a production rate of 2.5 per month has been successfully implemented.
Condition of assembly is improving with each airplane and we are closely monitoring the entire supply chain to ensure operational stability as we systematically ramp up to higher rates.
We plan to complete the next production system rate increase to 3.5 airplanes per month in the second quarter tracking as expected to the planned 10 per month production rate and final assembly by late 2013.
With the airplane design stabilized and out-of-sequence work being reduced as planned we expect change incorporation requirements to decrease progressively with each airplane moving through production in the first half of the year.
The first non-change incorporation airplane will be a line number in the mid-60s coming out of the factory this summer.
Final assembly of the first 787 built in South Carolina also is progressing to plan with weight on wheels achieved in December.
First delivery from our new customer delivery center in Charleston is expected mid-year.
The first 787 powered by GE engines is on track to deliver later this quarter.
We also continue to make steady progress on 787-9 development with first flight scheduled for 2013 in support of the first customer delivery in early 2014.
Moving to the 747-8 program.
During the fourth quarter we delivered 9 747-8 freighters to 3 customers.
The airplane is performing well in revenue service.
In December the intercontinental passenger model received its type certification and is scheduled for first delivery later this quarter.
Production system rate increases on the 747 are underway and also tracking to plan.
In addition to managing to ramp-ups on the 87 and the 47-8 we continue to implement planned production rate increases on both the 737 and 777 in order to meet market demand.
The 737 program has successfully increased its production rate to 35 airplanes per month with the next planned increase to 38 per month in the second quarter of 2013 and then up to 42 per month in the first half of 2014.
The 777 has successfully increased rate to 7 airplanes per month with the next planned increased to 8.3 per month in the first quarter of 2013.
The value created by these 2 franchise programs is substantial and will continue to grow as rates increase.
We are working closely with our supplier partners to execute all planned rate increases efficiently and effectively.
Over the next 3 years our overall Commercial Airplane output will rise by more than 40%.
In December we retired significant risk to our production rate ramp-up and growth plans when we reached an early 4-year contract extension with our machinist union in Puget Sound.
This landmark agreement secures delivery stability for our customers and contains economics that make us more competitive.
Engaging early was the right thing to do and we were very pleased with the outcome.
Shifting to Defense Space &amp; Security.
Despite a very tough environment solid operating performance for 2011 generated 9.9% margins as we delivered 115 aircraft 4 satellites and many other systems and services.
Key deliveries for the year included the introduction of the next-generation Apache Block III helicopter delivery of the first 2 Korean AEW&amp;C aircraft and the final delivery of the Italian tanker.
Equally impressive for Defense Space &amp; Security in 2011 was a series of strategic wins of new business starting with the Air Force Tanker Program.
This win preserved our 50-year franchise as the provider of aerial refuelers to the United States military and it opens the door to sizeable international opportunities.
The program is progressing to plan with every program milestone met on schedule.
The second big strategic win was the agreement reached between the U.S.
government and Saudi Arabia for the purchase of 84 new F-15 aircraft and upgrades to 70 existing aircraft.
This purchase will extend the F-15 line into the second half of this decade and position it well for additional international sales.
Other major BDS awards for 2011 include: the Ground-based Midcourse Defense development sustainment contract from the U.S.
Missile Defense Agency a low-rate initial production contract for 13 P-8A Poseidons for the U.S.
Navy a U.K.
Ministry of Defense order for 14 new Chinooks a 5-year C-17 sustainment contract with the U.S.
Air Force and an initial contract for NASA's new Space Launch System.
Looking back at 2011 I think it would be tough to find another year that included such a broad-based set of achievements.
We advanced the product and business strategies that are critical to our future and we are a stronger more competitive company as a result.
As we begin 2012 I am confident that our strategies and plans are aligned to the changing business environment and that our focus on disciplined execution of our backlog will result in substantial growth in the years ahead.
At this point I'd like to take just one more moment to recognize the big fella James Bell for his extraordinary service to Boeing.
As you are all aware by now James will retire at the end of the quarter after 40 years with our company.
As CFO he created a world-class finance organization and a culture of continuous improvement.
He is an extraordinary leader and business partner and his contributions over the years will have a lasting impact.
We all thank him and wish him the best of luck and continued success in all that he does.
And with that I want to welcome Greg Smith to his first call as our new CFO.
Many of you already know Greg from prior roles including our Corporate Controller for the last 2 years.
He's an extremely capable and seasoned industry leader with a uniquely broad experience set.
His insight into how the business works from the ground level up is a tremendous asset to have in a CFO.
So Greg with those kind words which you may never hear again over to you.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let me begin with our 2011 financial results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the year was $68.7 billion up 7% from a year ago due to higher delivery volume and mix.
Earnings per share for the year were $5.34 with operating margins at 8.5% both reflecting strong operating performance across our businesses.
Results were also affected by a favorable tax settlement and higher pension expense.
Operating cash for the year was $4 billion.
This reflects strong performance from both businesses offsetting our continued investment in the 787 and 747-8 program.
Let's look at fourth quarter performance on Slide 5.
Revenue for the quarter was $19.6 billion up 18% from the same period last year due to increased commercial aircraft deliveries and mix.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $1.84 again reflecting continued strong performance across the businesses and the favorable tax settlement offset by higher pension expense.
Let's discuss Commercial Airplanes on Slide 6.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes fourth quarter revenue was $10.7 billion with operating margins of 9.2%.
This reflects strong core operating performance across the business lower R&amp;D partially offset by the dilutive impact of the initial 787 and 747-8 deliveries and higher period costs including 787 fleet support.
For the year Commercial Airplanes reported $36.2 billion of revenue on 477 airplane deliveries with operating margins of 9.7% again reflecting strong performance across core production programs and our services business.
During the quarter we extended the accounting quantities on the 737 by 600 units the 767 by 24 units and the 777 by 50 units.
The financial impact of these extensions in the quarter was not significant.
Gross inventory for the company includes $20 billion related to the 787 program an increase of approximately $6.9 billion during 2011.
Gross inventory for the 787 program is expected to increase approximately $4 billion in 2012 as we continue ramping up production rates.
Included in the work-in-process inventory are deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the program was $10.8 billion at the end of the fourth quarter and includes almost 50 airplanes still in process.
As we said in the third quarter the deferred production balance will continue to grow as we increase production rates and introduce the 787-9 derivative.
We anticipate the deferred production cost to peak at slightly over $20 billion and then decline after the program achieves the planned production rate of 10 per month and stabilizes at that level.
The 787 program continues to record a low single-digit gross margin and we're proactively working opportunities to offset risk and increase profitability.
Some of those areas we're addressing include leveraging our buying power by combining purchases on common commodities such as raw material and fasteners reducing cost for us and our suppliers.
Through lean and other initiatives we continue to look for opportunities to refine our assembly and fabrication methods and designs focusing on cost and flow time reductions again in our factories and within our supply chain.
We're also looking at our production rates.
Once we've demonstrated our ability to successfully execute the planned rate increases we will consider rates above 10 per month.
All of these and other opportunities are being actively addressed as improving our profitability on the 787 program continues to be a top priority for us.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes won 391 gross orders during the quarter including 241 737s and 75 777s while 11 orders were canceled.
The commercial backlog remains very strong at over 3 700 airplanes valued at a record $296 billion.
Moving now to Slide 7 and our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
BDS reported $32 billion of revenue in 2011 with operating margins of 9.9% for the year reflecting strong core operating performance across the businesses.
For the fourth quarter BDS generated $8.5 billion of revenue with operating margins of 10.2% again reflecting continued strong performance.
Boeing Military Aircraft quarterly revenues increased 9% to $3.9 billion driven by improved mix and higher deliveries.
Operating margins increased to 9.5% driven by strong execution across various programs.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenue of $2 billion decreased on lower volume associated with the Brigade Combat Team Modernization termination.
Operating margins decreased to 8.6% due to increased research and development expense as we continue to invest in our future.
Global Services &amp; Support revenue increased 21% to $2.6 billion for the quarter primarily driven by higher revenue on integrated logistics support.
Operating margins were strong at 12.6%.
BDS backlog remains strong at $60 billion.
Now turning to Slide 8 and our Other businesses.
Boeing Capital reported pretax loss of $8 million in the quarter and a pretax income of $125 million for the year driven by smaller portfolio and higher asset impairments.
The portfolio balance at the end of the year was $4.6 billion unchanged from the beginning of the quarter and down from $4.7 billion at the beginning of the year.
During the quarter Other segment earnings of $43 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 were driven by credit rate upgrade on certain financing receivables.
In addition the loss in the unallocated eliminations increased due to higher pension and deferred compensation expense which was partially offset by the charitable trust contribution that impacted fourth quarter 2010.
During the fourth quarter we recorded a non-cash income tax benefit of $397 million or $0.52 per share resulting from a settlement with the IRS for tax years 2004 through 2006.
During 2011 pension expense for the company increased $547 million to $1.6 billion and we contributed $531 million to our pension plans.
Our pension asset returns for the year were 8.4% driven by strong performance in nearly all asset classes.
Our expected return assumptions going forward remain at 7.75%.
The discount rates used to calculate pension liability decreased from 5.3% in 2010 to 4.4% at the end of 2011.
The company's pension plans are now 75% funded on a financial accounting basis and 99% funded on an ERISA basis.
Let's turn now to Slide 9 to discus cash flow.
We generated $4 billion of operating cash in 2011 driven by strong performance across the businesses greater Commercial Airplane deliveries and advanced payments.
Capital expenditures of approximately $1.7 billion were as expected.
Turning to cash and debt balances on Slide 10.
We ended the year with $11.6 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Debt levels remained flat during the quarter.
Our cash position provides strong liquidity and positions us well to continue to focus on our cash deployment strategies and invest for continued growth.
Turning now to Slide 11 to discuss our outlook for 2012.
Guidance for 2012 reflects solid core operating performance in our businesses higher volumes in Commercial Airplanes partially offset by higher pension expense and the impact of the current DoD environment.
Revenues for 2012 are forecasted to increase by approximately 16% to be between $78 billion and $80 billion driven by increased deliveries at Commercial Airplanes.
EPS guidance is set at $4.05 to $4.25% per share.
This includes a $2.21 per share impact for pension expense an $0.83 per share increase from 2011.
We expect first quarter EPS and cash flow to be the lowest during the year based on timing of deliveries and phasing of expenditures.
First quarter EPS is estimated to be approximately 20% of our full year earnings.
The 2012 commercial delivery forecast is between 585 and 600 airplanes and is sold out.
This includes a combined 70 to 85 787s and 747-8 deliveries split roughly equally between the 2 programs.
The majority of the 787s being delivered during 2012 will be airplanes that require change incorporation.
We're seeing continued improvements in quality and the condition of assembly of the units coming out of the 787 final assembly line resulting in reduced change incorporation requirements on each airplane.
We have a clear understanding of the scope of work that needs to be completed on each airplane as well as dedicated resources and the facilities to complete the effort.
In addition we continue to actively engage with our overall supply chain and vigorously monitor predictive metrics that span the entire production system allowing us to mitigate issues and potential risks.
Airplanes coming off the 787 final assembly line during the first half of 2012 will require substantially less change incorporation work than the earlier planes and by mid-year we expect airplanes coming off the line will flow more directly into customer deliveries.
Moving to cash flow.
We expect 2012 operating cash to be greater than $5 billion.
This includes $1.5 billion of discretionary pension funding.
We expect minimal required pension contributions through 2013 though we plan to make discretionary contributions above required levels.
In 2012 we expect Other segment expense to be about $200 million and unallocated expense to be about $1.6 billion.
2012 pension expense is expected to be $2.6 billion an increase of $1 billion from last year.
This increase is primarily driven by the low interest rate environment.
R&amp;D expense for 2012 is forecast to be between $3.3 billion and $3.5 billion as we continue to invest for future growth.
We are forecasting capital expenditures to be about $2 billion in 2012.
This represents continued investment and ramp-up of commercial production rates as well as investments in support of long-term growth and productivity.
Let me turn now to Slide 12 to discuss how we bridge our 2011 performance to our 2012 guidance.
Our overall performance across the business continues to be strong in '12 with core operating engine producing 7% growth in adjusted EPS.
Commercial Airplane core performance as well as increased 737 and 777 deliveries will provide positive impact to earnings in 2012.
Margins at BCA will be largely impacted by the lower R&amp;D offset by the 787 and 747-8 margin dilution continued ramp-up of 787 fleet support and continued investment to support ongoing business growth.
Earnings and margins remain strong in the Defense business but are expected to decrease in 2012.
This decrease is driven by both volume and mix as we continue to realize the impact of the evolving DoD environment.
As I mentioned earlier pension expense will be a headwind for us in 2012 when the expected EPS impact an additional $0.83.
We expect that tax rate for 2012 to increase to approximately 35% due to reduced R&amp;D spending and the resulting lower R&amp;D tax credit.
Again 2011 was a strong year driven by solid core performance across our businesses.
We expect that performance to continue into 2012 as we remain focused on production program profitability rate ramp-up and productivity improvements.
Now I'll turn it back to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jim? Thank you Greg.
In 2011 Boeing improved on every major financial metric: revenue earnings and operating cash and all by pretty wide margins.
And we generated tremendous momentum for the future with exciting new programs like the 737 MAX and the Air Force tanker.
As we enter 2012 our ongoing focus and priorities are: production ramp-up and profitability across all our Commercial Airplane programs; successful execution of ongoing development efforts on the 787-9 737 MAX and Air Force tanker; and to continue repositioning our Defense business while extending our core programs and expanding internationally.
On the strength of our product and services strategies and our team's commitment to innovation and continuous productivity improvements we have positioned Boeing for a period of strong and sustained growth in the years ahead.
This is the moment we have been waiting for and we look forward to delivering on the promise.
With that said we'd be very happy now to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So I've got a question that's kind of a commercial question.
So if I look at what you're saying about your delivery guidance for 2012 it looks like the company's planning on delivering somewhere between 35 and 45 787s.
Only 3 were delivered last year.
You went through the targets where you want to get to in terms of break points of production rates.
So the question really is how did that get there? And how did that dovetail with the operating margin projection for 2012 which is 8.5% to 9% which seems kind of disappointing given where production rates are going? Well is there a particular part of that question you'd like me to focus on there Ron? I mean is it the...
Research Division</strong> They're both kind of tied together so you pick.
Okay yes.
All right.
I'll just start.
Look we're confident in the amount of 87s and 47s we have projected to deliver.
Recalling that a little more than half of the 87s are going to come out of change incorporation I mean they're being worked on today and many of them are largely finished and the balance will come out of production come off the end of the line as an increasing number as the mix changes from changing core planes to straight off-the-line planes we'll get through a lot of that mountain this year.
So there's a little more than half 87s in work now a high degree of confidence in being able to predict when they'll be done.
On the 47-8 I mean we're -- the production ramp-up is going well.
I think if you extrapolate what we've delivered in the last part of 2011 into 2012 that all hangs together very nicely.
And the margins I think we've been very open with you on the margins on the 87 and we've got a big program that Greg outlined to improve them.
But the margin -- if your question ultimately gets to why isn't there more operating margin? Research Division</strong> Yes where's the leverage? It's in 2012.
Look I think as Greg said the guidance for BCA is prudent.
I mean it hangs together.
We're in an industry where experience has shown to be prudent at the front end and unfold as you go along is the way to live life.
And this all hangs together in terms of increased lead support that we've got to do with the new airplanes and some sort of one-time things that are associated with 2 simultaneous introductions those are headwinds and the pension that we talked about.
I think it's -- there's an opportunity to do better.
But it's -- often times it's prudent to plan for some things that have happened historically.
And next we'll go to Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Perhaps Greg you could talk a little bit more about the operating cash flow and the components within for '12; some of the moving pieces.
You talked about deferred production which rises throughout the year because of course the peak sounds like it's a few years away.
But maybe you can also talk about physical inventory and other components.
For example maybe the difference between production and delivery and how that works out on 787? It sounds like they're roughly similar.
And then maybe finish up with your priorities on cash deployment.
Sure.
I mean Rob obviously a lot of the cash that's being generated in 2012 is directly linked to our delivery profile coming out of BCA.
So the 787s and the 747s Jim just talked about as well as the increased production on the 37 and obviously on the 777 deliveries that is the key driver to our increased cash flow and it will be going forward.
With regards to inventory as I talked about the inventory is going to continue to grow here and that'll really start to taper off once we hit peak production on the 87 and start to stabilize at that rate that's when you'll start to see that turn.
And I think we've got solid plans in place to make that happen.
What was your follow-on there? Research Division</strong> The last -- yes how do you think about deployment? Yes.
Cash deployment.
Yes.
I mean certainly as we look at our plan and we look at our improved operating cash going forward it's a priority for us.
We continuously look at it.
You saw we increased the dividend in the first quarter.
But we'll take a balanced approach like we have in the past.
We'll look at share repurchase.
We'll look at our pension plans.
We'll look at investing in our future and balance that out.
But it's certainly at the forefront of our mind as we continue to deliver strong cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Greg do you see different types of cash return solutions at different times like '12 versus '13 and '14? Well as I said I think as we execute '12 we'll be looking a lot harder and ramping up our deployment strategies '13 and beyond.
And we'll go to Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back on the 787.
And the rate has continued to slide.
And I'm trying to understand 2 things.
One is first you've held fast to the 10 per month at the end of 2013 even as the rate has pushed to the right a little bit over the last year.
And then also when we look at the rate coming down I'm trying to understand where the risk is on margin.
And by that I mean there's the margin on the 787 program itself but if you see delays that results in customer compensation it results in issues around overhead absorption on other programs.
So where should we look -- if we see more delays where should we look for the margin issue? So really those 2 things.
How to keep the rate at this level and where we should see the margin impact? Well yes.
There's no question Doug.
That would all put pressure on the margin if everything moved to the right.
But as I mentioned we are working other initiatives and opportunities to try to offset that risk.
But when you look at kind of near-term as Jim talked about a lot of the airplanes that are -- or at least the majority that are going to get delivered next year on the 87 are in mod center.
They're in the changing corp area.
So when you separate that from rate ramp and then you look at the balance coming out of rate ramp as you know we've executed the last rate ramp and we're about to execute the next one.
And then we'll execute another one by the end of the year.
So we're on a steady pace.
Charleston you know the progress that we've made there and we'll expect a delivery out of there in the second half as well.
So we're balancing all of that.
There's certainly -- again there's no question that if you have delays its going to put pressure on margins but I think we're actively working opportunities and we're trying obviously not have any schedule slips and execute to the plans we got in place between the change center and final delivery out of Charleston and out of Everett.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But the rate ramp if we go back a year ago you had the same target at the end of 2013.
I'm trying to understand the shape of that rate ramp looks somewhat different today.
What's happened? What has that meant for performance in getting this ramp that obviously has to accelerate more in the back end? I think Doug over -- I'd have to look at it to be sure and the guys can clean this up if I'm a little bit wrong.
I don't think the rate ramp has changed much over the last year 1.5 years.
I think what's happened as events came out of flight test as we went through flight test a lot of engineering change went back into planes we'd already built.
And that's been our challenge is the planes that are in change incorp now are the ones that have been pushed out.
That flow of change has stopped now.
So there is much more clarity on what has to be done in the change incorporation.
The rate ramp has stayed.
That has been our plan for the last year 1.5 years.
And so we're -- and that's not the issue.
The issue is engineering change which has now largely stopped back into the early produced airplanes based on flight test discoveries.
That's done now.
I think that math -- maybe you could sit down with me Doug.
If that makes any sense to you Doug.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So your concern right now is more on getting deliveries out which includes a lot of change incorporation more than it is getting your production rate up.
Is that fair? Yes.
I mean that's forcing me into a big statement because we're worried about both okay? Those are both execution things that we've got to monitor very closely and work very hard on.
But as I said before more than half of the planned 87 deliveries this year are coming out of change incorp and then the ramping up after that.
And there'll be some off the end of the line but the ramping up after that will be as we move from 2.5 which we've already done to 3.5 in the second quarter to 5 by the end of the year.
And that looks manageable as we sit here today.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I thought I would change things for a moment and talk about freighters Jim.
There's a number of things that you've accomplished and you've still got some things still to do.
Could you sort of address some of the open items still related with the 78 -- excuse me the 74-8 and what are you -- how you're going to place those Atlas airplanes for example? And then related to the FedEx order you talked about incremental opportunities.
Could you also talk and address sort of how this dovetails with what you're doing on the tanker? Sure.
Let me address the 47-8.
The production is going well and we have a pretty decent pipeline Howard of planes that we're working right now most of which are decisionable in 2012.
So we're cautiously optimistic about good order news this year.
Now as you know Howard you've been around this industry a long time I mean this has been for the ultra-big airplanes going through this economic cycle has not been a big -- huge airplane's friend.
But having said that the freighters are very productive machines for these guys.
The amount of money an operator makes versus what he's been making is tremendous incentive.
But it's not only freighters.
We have a decent international -- intercontinental pipeline and there's some VIP airplanes that we're talking to people about.
So a pretty decent pipeline.
On the 67 we have -- the FedEx order was important for a very important customer provides a nice bridge to the tanker production.
We have a couple of other customers who are continuing to operate the 67 and with whom we are discussing.
And a couple of them stand a good chance to come home.
I think the -- but the linchpin was the FedEx order.
And some of the others we would have to sort of work in around FedEx and tanker production.
We can do it and we are actively trying to do it.
But the big downside has been avoided okay is the way to think about that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But still you have -- just to push back for a second you still have a couple of open-risk items on the 78.
You've got that flutter issue -- excuse me 74-8 excuse me the flutter issue on the tail.
And then also as I said how do you encourage someone to take the rejected Atlas airplanes? Well we're in active discussions on the Atlas airplanes.
And the flutter issue -- look any issue that we have to address is an important issue.
I would not characterize that as out of bounds in terms of normal issues we deal with with new introductions.
And we have a good degree of confidence we'll be able to work through that issue as do we on placing the Atlas airplanes and on executing a pipeline beyond the orders we have right now.
And next we go to Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jim please extend our congrats to James on an amazing career.
We'll do.
We'll do.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Greg I wondered if we could dive into some details with 2 quick accounting clarifications.
First you said the block extensions had no material impact on the quarter but I would assume that those 600 737s should be higher average margin unless you're leaving some room for a downturn in the kind of mid-decade.
So if you could clarify there it would be helpful.
And then sticking with the accounting it looks like the universe's program differences in Q4 were a little under $1 billion on a net basis.
But I presume on a gross basis the 87 and 47 were a bit higher with some offset from the mature programs.
So if you could give us some color on how those numbers looked on a gross rather than a net basis since you guys didn't provide a 47 deferred production disclosure that would be helpful.
Yes.
So on that point on the 87 I'd tell you on a unit basis it's improved as we'd expect.
So as we're coming down the learning curve we'll have improved unit margins.
I'd also mention that that's not -- don't expect that to be linear going forward because of the way we're delivering airplanes and some are coming out of change incorp some of them are coming out of Everett final assembly you're going to see a little bit of bouncing around on a unit basis.
But certainly for this quarter the biggest impact was the 9 747s.
And that's really the big driver in there from when you at the difference over Q3 to Q4.
But again 87 on a unit did improve.
Research Division</strong> And was there a material -- on a gross basis was there a material offset from the 37s and 777s in the quarter that gets you back down to $1 billion? Yes.
It was a small offset there Carter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the block extension on the 600 73s? Yes.
So obviously some of -- it's a competitive environment we're dealing with on the 737 but we're facing into that.
We're looking at obviously cost reductions going forward.
And when you look at the maturity of that program and how far out this is in the time frame it doesn't have a significant impact on the overall block.
And obviously it's something we continue to focus on and look at but nothing significant within this quarter.
Research Division</strong> But presumably those airplanes are priced already right? I mean the backlog's so deep you would know the prices on those planes.
So I would think the only uncertainty would be the volume of when you're producing those 600 airplanes which is kind of in the middle of the decade.
So if I were to compare the production rates in the middle of the decade rather to where they are now unless there's some sort of material negative to the pricing or unless you've got room there for reductions in volume just for prudence then I would assume that it'd be something.
But apparently there's nothing.
Not material.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have -- I'm going to cheat a little bit.
I have a clarification request and then a question.
They're both pretty simple.
On the clarification Greg the R&amp;D -- I'm looking at Slide 12 in your margin reconciliation for Commercial and R&amp;D is 100 bip pickup.
When I do the math given your revenue guidance that implies the R&amp;D is going to be up $400 million in Commercial.
I don't know -- I haven't done the math to that degree but it's going to be lower by $500 million.
And that should obviously give us a positive impact on the margin.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean R&amp;D was 7.5% of sales in 2011 and you're saying it's going to be 6.5%.
But 6.5 times $48.5 billion of revenue is...
You know what we'll do Joe? I'll have Scott call you right after and make sure we clear it up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean it just seems like an $800 million gorilla kind of hiding the numbers.
But...
Okay.
It is coming down and we'll get a margin increase for that.
But he'll get together with you and sort it out.
Research Division</strong> Sure enough.
Okay.
And then in the fourth quarter your margin looked like it did tick down a little bit in your core programs if I kind of back out a reasonable revenue number for the 47s and the 87s.
Was there a pickup in fleet support? Or is there something else going on there? Did gross margins change on the 37 and 777 I guess is the question? Yes there was a little bit of pickup on fleet support.
And then we had some higher escalation as well that was incorporated into the booking rates.
So that was essentially it.
Research Division</strong> So gross margins were on the 2 core programs there were intact sequentially? One was up slightly and one was down slightly.
And we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about I guess the order outlook as you look into 2012? I'm trying to think about BCA and really with the 737 MAX those indications turning into firm orders and excluding that as well? And then if you can give us some indication on the defense side I don't know if all of those orders the Saudi the GMD I don't know exactly if everything is in backlog yet or if we should still see some pickup on that order activity as well? And then I guess related to that is what that means on the advances line when we look at the cash flow? I'll answer the market-oriented question while Greg is thinking about advances.
With my tongue in my cheek a little we will have more orders than production next year.
But we -- and that's our official guidance.
But we should have a pretty good orders year next year.
As you pointed out the conversion of the MAX commitments into orders that's I think largely visible to you as you track this.
But we also see robust order activity in our other product lines.
And so we see by historical comparisons a pretty robust order situation of BCA.
And Greg you correct me if I'm wrong here.
I think the Saudi deal the finalization of that is not in backlog as we sit here right now.
There's some final details being worked through between the governments before we can properly book it.
But the arrangements are -- the key elements of the arrangements are done.
So that is a pickup you will see.
And on GMB -- is that in backlog? Yes that'll be over the next couple of months as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And on the advances is that something...
Greg? Go ahead Greg.
Are you talking on the Commercial? I think he's talking Commercial.
Right? LLC Research Division</strong> Specifically it's mostly commercial because unless it's -- I'm not sure if that's a direct order or not the Saudi but just in terms of just on the cash flow line that advances line how much of a net source will that be over the course of the year? I mean it'll definitely be up the Saudi being a big driver of that.
And then the strong commercial orders that we're foreseeing will certainly help that in 2012.
And next we'll go to Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to put a little finer point on the orders in 2012.
And also actually Jim see if you can touch on financing and pricing a little bit for us.
So you said it should be pretty good but obviously when we look at the 737 MAX commitments does it look like you could get north of 1 000 orders this year versus what you did last year? Well again I don't want to put an exact number down because as you know it can move around.
But I will say that the vast majority of the commitments that we got last year in all likelihood will be booked this year okay? And as you know we exited the year with close to 1 000 orders and commitments most of those were commitments.
So there's a good slug there.
And we have a pretty robust pipeline on our other models.
So I don't want to exactly compare year-over-year but it's -- versus historical kinds of years it should be another pretty robust year.
And that's included in our cash guidance.
Research Division</strong> And then with respect of financing Jim because obviously there's concern about the European banks is all of financing substantially in place for the 2012 planes? And maybe turn to comments on pricing are you getting price appreciation on the 777 now the A340 is officially dead? And talk about 737 MAX pricing.
Yes.
I think the -- I'll just take them in reverse order.
The 737 pricing is about what we'd projected.
I mean there are not huge impact swings versus our plan.
And as you know it's a competitive marketplace but it is not dramatically different.
And the dynamics there are to continue to sell out the NG up to and including the blend in of the MAX.
And that's going well.
As you've noticed with -- i think virtually every commitment we've gotten on MAX's we've also gotten commitments on NGs which in some cases puts a little pressure on pricing but more than offset by the economies of ensuring a smooth dovetail and smooth production.
And so that all works out economically on a margin basis.
And on the 777 -- listen the 777 is in a very strong market position right now.
And the value we're getting for that airplane is all different kinds of value of which prices one element remains very strong.
And then the financing situation you were asking about Heidi we do not see an issue with getting our backlog financed this year.
I mean there are some finance sources moving around some people with less appetite more with others who have more appetite.
But I think when our BCC people and our treasury folks take a very cold-eyed hard look at it and I know XM's being debated in Congress and we anticipate resolution there I think we feel comfortable with getting the backlog financed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And quickly Greg can you talk to us about the timing of cash flow over the course of the year? Is it lumpy? Or how should we think about that over the next coming quarters? Yes it's lumpy but back-loaded as we would typically see in our profile.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will come from Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it looks like you missed your 787 delivery for the year and your forecast for this year assumes that you exit the year it looks like at approximately the same number of planes in inventory.
So it appears as if completions are more difficult.
Could you help us understand why? And secondly it seems like maybe your ability to ramp the rate is in line with expectations or maybe improving.
So maybe give us some color on those 2 issues if you could? Well you're right.
A couple of planes slid out of '11 into '12 coming out of change incorporation but they've already been delivered.
This was not a major slide indicating a different view of our production capability.
And as I said before Cai the majority of the planes we will deliver this year will come out of change incorp slightly more than half.
But we will exit the year with a pretty good production flow going.
But there still will be some change incorp planes that are yet to be delivered.
And so the lines -- you're right change incorp down; production up; inventory same beginning of year end of year.
But then that will begin to change over time as the change incorp planes get flushed out of the system pretty soon thereafter.
LLC Research Division</strong> So do you feel -- I mean it sounds like the completions are a little more difficult but do you feel equally or maybe more confident about your ability to kind of reach your increase in final assembly rates without having to incur an additional pause? I think the way I'd say it is that the engineering change flow has slowed down to a trickle.
Pretty much done.
And as every day passes and we get closer to the goal and we pass other milestones yes my confidence does increase because we are executing to plan.
And the statement of work is better known without all the change flowing in.
And so I think as each week passes each month passes my confidence does grow.
It's something though that is -- these ramp-ups are always difficult and it has our attention.
And ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now return you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue now with the time remaining to take a couple of questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
And in the interest of the limited time we have we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And we'll go to Brendan Kearney with Post and Courier.
Jim in November Jim Albaugh said he was very pleased with how the North Charleston operation was coming along saying that some of the units had already demonstrated they could produce at a rate of 10 a month.
I subsequently learned that he was talking more about the machines than the human element here.
And then also between now and then the NLRB cloud has cleared.
And so with those things in mind how do you feel about each of the 3 major units in North Charleston aft midbody and final assembly and how they're doing now? Yes I feel good about them.
They're all on plan or in some cases slightly ahead of plan.
I think Jim -- I didn't read Jim's quote but he may have been referring to the aft and midbody which go to both Charleston final and Everett final and that ramp is on schedule.
Final assembly.
Actually we're slightly ahead of our plan in final assembly so I feel good about the execution I'm seeing down there.
Okay.
And you said -- I've heard second quarter here for the first delivery but I heard midyear and second half during this call.
Is it...
Yes second quarter.
Yes.
I think one of us misspoke a little.
Second quarter.
Our next question is from Susanna Ray with Bloomberg News.
I am wondering with this huge production increase is this in the works and planned? I'm wondering about your employment forecast both for this year and for the next 2 years I guess through the 2014 guidance? Well a lot of the employment ramp happened in 2011.
Our company added 11 000 employees high-tech jobs in the United States which are the bedrock of our company and very fashionable these days.
But those employees were added both for the 787 747-8 ramp in anticipation of the ramp of some of our other programs.
And we're going to be adding some more somewhat offset by some reductions in BDS.
The defense side is tough right now as you know.
And I think all defense players including that part of our company which is Defense are tightening employment.
So that will net out to a slight add this year.
But most of the adds were last year.
Okay.
Do you have any forecast then as far as how many more you might like total including the BDS reduction you might add? Yes.
I think it's not going to be a big -- we'll get back to you.
I don't have that specific number in front of me Susanna.
Tom will get back to you.
And the 11 000 that was global right? Not just the U.S.? Well that was -- 99% of that's U.S.
Our next question is from Joshua Freed with Associated Press.
The status of the American Airline's MAX order you talked about conversions earlier.
When do you think that one might convert? And does it seem likely at this point that that would happen post-Chapter 11 for them? Just an overall comment would be -- I mean Chapter 11 probably strengthens the likelihood of that getting booked quite frankly as the company goes through.
And I think it's hard to predict because they're just at the beginning of the process.
Whether that would be finalized in bankruptcy or just after it's hard to -- all I know is that American will emerge from that process more able to execute those orders than they would have had they not gone through it.
Okay.
But I mean are you making your plans in one direction or the other in terms of the timing of that? Well our plan is to deliver them when we committed to deliver them which is I believe starting in '17.
And so our anticipation is that their financing will all be sorted out well before that.
Our next question is from Dominic Gates with the Seattle Times.
I'm just going to ask for a little clarification on the 787 delivery rate this year.
So you're guiding for 35 to 42 787s approximately in the year and you said in the call that about half of those will be change incorp planes.
And it's not quite computing for me because you're at 2.5 a month now flowing out of the factory...
No you are right Dominic.
You're right.
You're right.
We said more than half.
It's a lot more than half okay? Greg do you...
A lot more than half are change incorp? Yes.
More like 2/3 of them are coming out of change incorp.
I'm still not quite understanding because if you're 2.5 now flowing out of the factory 2.5 a month you're moving to 3.5 next quarter I think you said? And to 5 -- I think you said 5 a month before year end? So let's say you're averaging 3 a month at the low-end that will be 36 planes flowing out of the factory with you're saying not too much work to be done on them.
So shouldn't you have more of those planes rather than more of the change incorp planes? Well some of those -- as I talked about some of those will still require change incorp just not as much.
So as they're coming out of the factory some of those will get -- go into change incorp and then get delivered through 2012.
They just don't require as much as they do on those earlier units that we're referring to.
Right.
So they might still require months of work actually? I'm sorry? They might still require some months of change incorp work [indiscernible] coming out? Yes yes.
Some level of change right.
And we'll go to Molly McMillin with the Wichita Eagle.
My question is I know when the announcement was made that the Wichita plant is closing that the folks are saying that an official study started last summer.
But I'm wondering when did you all start kicking around the idea of closing the plant and wanting to pursue that line of information? Well I think the -- it was that timing when it began to fall under serious considerations.
I mean we are always reviewing our plans but I would say it really didn't crystallize.
And of course the reason it did I think the planning started to accelerate then is a very difficult defense market which it became clear middle of last year that there was going to be serious surgery done on defense programs and we had to take an aggressive inventory of our sites and figure out where the most efficient places to produce our wares and our services in a dramatically constrained environment that we saw coming.
And that's what really precipitated the second half of the year study in Kansas.
Okay.
And then on the Air Force side was it written in the contract for the tanker that Wichita would be doing the finishing work? Or was it more of a contingency plan in there? Or do you know...
No I don't think it was written in the contract.
We can tell you exactly what was written in the contract but I'm pretty confident there was nothing like that in the contract.
Okay.
So when you talk to the Air Force they're fine with the change? Or how are they accepting it I guess? Well the Air Force has pressed us for a very good deal and they're leaving it to us to make the decision on where and how to produce it.
That's the nature of this particular contract.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media.
And that will be from Mike Mecham from Aviation Week.
Can you talk a little bit about where you stand on your plans for MAX production? Your labor deal puts it in Renton for sure.
So where's the planning stand on all of that? Where's the what? The planning? The planning for how you'll phase-in doing both aircraft and the production elements.
Yes.
I think there's 2 elements to the answer.
One is we're on track with the development plan that we're working on now.
And as you know there's minor modifications needed to the overall airplane.
The engine is the big story and that's going well.
The other element is to sustain productions of NGs up until the point we start blending in the MAXs in the first part of 2017 and I think when we start delivering them and as I mentioned earlier we're making good progress on accomplishing that objective.
Virtually every MAX order we're getting now or every MAX commitment has associated with it a NG order or commitment which will help bridge us right to the point of the MAXs and that is also very important.
So I think the planning is going well on a development side and on a production side and I feel good about it.
Will the plant require a lot of tooling requirements or modifications actually to the factory itself? I think the -- most of the work that'll be required there will relate to the increased volumes that we've got that will hit that plant a couple of years before the MAX.
But there will be some modification required for the MAX but it'll be done within the footprint that's established for the 42 a month that we've -- that we will be into 2014 2015.
So it's ordering more of what you've got kind of a situation as far as tooling because the aircraft is essentially the same...
The aircraft yes.
I mean -- but there will be some differences.
I mean the engine the engine buildup and the cell and that part of it.
There's a modification to a few things.
But we can largely leverage the current footprint we've got both in terms of tooling and in terms of facilities after we get up to the 42 a month in 2014.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have additional questions please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to The Boeing Company's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and the slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Ms.
Stephanie Pope Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Ms.
Pope please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's first quarter 2012 earnings call.
I am Stephanie Pope and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit your questions to one.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
As a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this webcast presentation.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everybody.
Let me start today by addressing the evolving business environment followed by some thoughts on our performance during the quarter.
After that Greg will walk through our financial results and outlook and then we'll take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
As the global economy continues to recover albeit at a slow and somewhat choppy pace airline industry fundamentals remain intact.
Global demand for commercial airplanes is strong and growing.
Emerging markets are driving the expansion of airline fleets worldwide growth that is complemented by the ongoing retirement and replacement cycles for airplanes in developed markets.
Passenger air traffic remains resilient with airline load factors and utilization rates continuing at or above peak levels.
Although cargo traffic remains below long-term trends it appears that this market is stabilizing and is projected to improve in the second half of the year.
Despite the ebbs and flows of the Eurozone debt crisis we foresee aircraft financing as broadly adequate throughout 2012.
Boeing airplanes are attractive value-creating assets and sources of financing for them remain broad and diverse.
The high cost of jet fuel remains a key concern for our customers and has them focused more than ever on ensuring that they have the most fuel-efficient airplanes with which to compete a dynamic reflected in our solid first quarter order total.
The combination of strong market demand and our customer preferred portfolio of products and services that delivers superior fuel and operational performance positions us exceptionally well for the future.
Delivering our record backlog faster to speed the flow of new airplanes to customers and open additional positions for sale remains a priority.
Production rate increases planned over the next 3 years will increase our output by more than 40% in support of these objectives.
While damage from the recent severe weather in Wichita has not had a significant impact on our operations at our facility there we are working closely with our major supplier partner Spirit as they continue to manage the challenges of their stressed infrastructure.
We will continue to assess this evolving situation.
However we believe the impacts to be manageable.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security.
Defining U.S.
defense -- declining U.S.
defense budget and shifting program priorities continue to pressure domestic markets.
We were generally pleased with how Boeing programs fared in the President's fiscal year 2013 budget request which contained strong support for the majority of our programs including the F/A 18 P-8A Chinook Apache and Osprey.
We also see clear alignment in the proposed budget and the Defense Department's new strategic guidance with several of our targeted growth areas including space unmanned ISR and cyber security.
We have been anticipating and preparing for a declining defense environment for several years.
While the potential for sequestration has created additional uncertainty we believe we are well positioned for continued success with our portfolio of proven affordable and reliable systems and services our focus on innovation and strong execution across our programs and our relentless effort to maximize efficiencies and reduce infrastructure costs.
Furthermore we continue to foresee significant upside potential in growing international markets where we have made substantial share gains in recent years and expect to generate up to 30% of our revenues just a few years from now.
In the first quarter we went under contract for 84 new F-15s for Saudi Arabia which will keep the F-15 viable for new sales for many years and we secured several important C-17 foreign sales.
These and other international orders led to a 20% increase in backlog for our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Overall despite pockets of economic uncertainty and U.S.
defense budget pressures the size and strength of our markets remain attractive and growing in the aggregate.
Our total company backlog increased $24 billion in the first quarter and is broadly diverse by region product type and customer.
We anticipate this orders trend will continue and we expect a book-to-bill ratio greater than 1 in both of our main businesses this year.
Turning to the first quarter highlights on Slide 3.
We delivered strong operating performance across our core production and services programs in the first quarter while achieving some key milestones in both Commercial and Defense.
Commercial Airplanes generated healthy margins of 9.9%.
We delivered 137 airplanes including five 787s and six 747-8s and we recorded net orders for 412 airplanes including 301 firm orders for the 737 MAX.
Customer response for the 737 MAX remains very positive.
We continue to convert existing commitments to firm orders as planned with a total of 451 recorded to date.
Key deliveries for the first quarter included the 1 000th 777 the first 747-8 Intercontinental VIP airplane and I should say Lufthansa will be receiving their first Intercontinental airplane today if everything goes as planned and the first two 787 -- 787s powered by GE engines.
In addition the first 747-Intercontinental airplane as I mentioned it will be delivered to Lufthansa hopefully today.
The 787s in service with launch customer ANA and now Japan Airlines are performing well with high dispatch reliability rates and a very favorable passenger response to the features and capabilities of the airplane.
We recently transitioned the 787 production line to a build rate of 3.5 per month in final assembly in Everett marking the second successful rate increase in the past 6 months.
Condition of assembly and out-of-sequence work continues to significantly improve as we work closely with our supplier partners.
These gains are driving productivity and demonstrating the ability of this production system which is increasing our confidence as we systematically ramp up to higher rates and reduce the amount of post-assembly change incorporation required on each airplane.
We continue to estimate that the first 787 to go straight from final assembly to the flight line without a stop in our modification center will be a unit in the mid-60s rolling out of the factory this summer.
Later this week we will roll out the first 787 assembled in Charleston South Carolina.
Delivery of that airplane from our new Charleston customer delivery center is expected in midyear.
We continue to increase the rate of 787 production.
We expect to increase it I should say to 5 per month by the end of this year which tracks to our plan to reach a rate of 10 per month in final assembly by late 2013.
Progress also continues at the Everett mod center to complete work on the airplanes that have come off the line but require further change incorporation work.
With dedicated resources in place we are using proven repeatable processes to track the scope of work required on each airplane maximize learning and reduce cycle time.
As a result we are seeing performance improvements with each airplane delivery.
Steady progress has also been made on development of the 787-9 with engineering design tracking to plan in support of first delivery scheduled for the second half of 2013 and first delivery -- first flight I should say scheduled second half of '13 and first delivery in early 2014.
I'd be remiss at this point if I'd didn't mention a very proud moment for all Boeing employees that came in March when the National Aeronautics Association recognized the 787 with the most prestigious award for aerospace excellence the Collier Trophy.
We are extremely proud of the game-changing technology embodied in the 787 and the associated value it provides to our customers.
And I'm equally proud of the team that got the job done.
Shifting to the 747-8 the 14 freighters now in service with 5 customers are performing extremely well.
Progress on the production side is steady too as we continued to transition to reach a production rate of 2 airplanes per month this summer.
In addition to its sales momentum the 737 MAX achieved a major development milestone in February when we began the final phase of wind tunnel testing.
Design details are maturing to plan and we are on schedule to reach firm configuration in 2013.
We are working closely with our supplier partners to ensure successful production rate increases not only on the 787 and the 747-8 but also on the 737 and the 777.
Production rate on the 737 is planned to increase to 38 per month in the second quarter of 2013 and then up to 42 per month in the first half of 2014.
Production on the 777 program will increase to 8.3 per month in the first quarter of 2013.
These 2 franchise programs continue to generate substantial value for all of our stakeholders.
In Defense Space &amp; Security this quarter we delivered 30 aircraft and 3 satellites generating solid operating results and margins of 9% across our well-balanced defense portfolio.
In February we marked a 1-year anniversary of receiving the U.S.
Air Force contract to build the KC-46A.
This program continues to be a successful team effort between the U.S.
Air Force and Boeing.
Over the past year the program completed all milestones on or ahead of schedule.
In March we began the Preliminary Design Review with the U.S.
Air Force which is expected to complete later this week.
Additional key highlights in this sector included delivering the first P-8 low-rate initial production aircraft completing Preliminary Design Review for the Commercial Crew Space Transportation system and the launch of our new 702 small satellite product line with an initial contract for 4 units.
Our total company backlog of $380 billion is close to 5x our current annual revenue estimate.
This record backlog positions us for significant growth potential in the years to come and we continue to improve productivity and competitiveness throughout the business.
Now over to Greg who will discuss the first quarter financial results and our outlook.
Greg? Thanks Jim and good morning.
I'll begin with the first quarter financial results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the quarter was $19.4 billion up from last year driven by higher Commercial Airplane delivery volume.
Net earnings were $1.22 per share including $0.11-per-share impact for a reduction in a litigation-related reserve.
Operating margins at 8.1% and operating cash flow of $837 million reflect strong performance across our core businesses.
Let me discuss our Commercial business on Slide 5.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes' first quarter revenue was $10.9 billion up from last year reflecting a planned and successfully executed increase in airplane deliveries.
Commercial operating margins were 9.9% up from a year ago reflecting the increased deliveries strong core operating performance across the business and lower R&amp;D expenses.
This was partially offset by higher period costs which do include 787 fleet support and the dilutive effect of 787 and 747 deliveries.
During the quarter we extended the accounting quantities on the 777 by 50 units and the 767 by 6 units.
The financial impact of these extensions in the quarter was not significant as volume benefits are balanced with anticipated competitive pricing environment.
Gross inventory for the company included approximately $22 billion related to the 787 program an expected increase of approximately $1.8 billion during the quarter.
As we've mentioned previously we expect gross inventory for the 787 to increase to $24 billion by year-end 2012 as we continue ramping up production rates.
But this growth will moderate as deliveries increase.
Included in the work-in-process inventory are the deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the program was $11.9 billion at the end of the first quarter and includes approximately 53 airplanes still in-process.
As I stated on the fourth quarter the deferred production balance will continue to grow as we increase production rates and introduce the 787-9 derivative peaking at slightly over $20 billion and then declining after the program achieves the planned rate of 10 per month and stabilizes at that level.
Improving profitability on both the 787 and the 747-8 programs continue to be a top priority for us as we proactively work opportunities to offset risks and improve margin.
Commercial Airplanes won 412 net orders during the quarter valued at $21 billion.
The Commercial backlog remains strong with over 4 000 airplanes valued at a record $308 billion.
Moving now to Slide 6 and we'll discuss the Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported first quarter revenue of $8.2 billion with operating margins of 9%.
Boeing Military Aircraft quarterly revenues increased 27% for the quarter to $4.3 billion driven by the successfully completed key development milestones on the F-15 Saudi program.
Operating margins remained strong at 10.1%.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenue of $1.8 billion decreased last year driven by the expected lower volume associated with the Brigade Combat Team Modernization program.
As anticipated operating margins decreased to 4.1% primarily due to lower volume and program mix in our satellite business.
Global Services &amp; Support revenue increased 13% to $2.1 billion for the quarter primarily driven by higher revenue on integrated logistics support.
Operating margins were very strong at 10.9% reflecting performance improvements on multiple integrated logistics programs.
Defense Space &amp; Security backlog significantly increased in the quarter to $72 billion driven by F-15 and C-17 international orders.
Over 35% of our current defense backlog represents international business.
Now let's turn to Slide 7 to discuss our other businesses.
Boeing Capital generated $38 million in segment earnings in the quarter.
The portfolio balance declined to $4.2 billion on normal portfolio runoff and asset sales with no new aircraft volume in the quarter.
During the quarter other segment expense was $79 million while unallocated expense were essentially flat year-over-year reflecting the $131 million reduction in the litigation-related reserve which was offset by higher pension expense this year.
Let's turn to Slide 8 and we'll discuss cash flow.
During the quarter we generated $837 million of operating cash reflecting increased commercial deliveries and advanced payments as well as progress payments on the Saudi F-15s.
We expect cash flow to build over the course of the year as commercial deliveries increase and we will continue to execute our disciplined cash management actions.
Turning to cash and debt balances on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $10.5 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Our cash and debt balances reflect the first quarter repayment of $774 million of BCC debt.
Our cash position continues to provide strong liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Capital expenditures of approximately $424 million were as expected.
Turning now to Slide 10 to discuss our outlook for 2012.
Our financial outlook continues to be balanced reflecting strong operating performance on our production and services programs and is -- and has consideration for uncertainty and risks associated with ongoing business growth.
We are increasing our earnings per share guidance to be between $4.15 and $4.35 per share to incorporate the reduction in a litigation-related reserve.
All other financial guidance remains unchanged.
Commercial deliveries forecast remains at about 585 to 600 airplanes.
Our forecast continues to include a combined 70 to 85 787s and 747-8 deliveries split roughly equally between the 2 programs.
Overall we're pleased with the first quarter performance as the core operating engine continues to deliver strong results.
We expect that performance to continue as we remain focused on production program profitability rate ramp-up and ongoing productivity improvements.
Now I'll turn it back to Jim for some final thoughts.
Thanks Greg.
With a strong first quarter we've built on our momentum from 2011 and increased our confidence in meeting our goals for 2012.
Our priorities and focus for the year remain the same: production ramp-up and profitability across all our Commercial Airplane programs; successful execution of ongoing development efforts on the 787-9 the 737 MAX and the Air Force Tanker; and repositioning our Defense business while extending our core programs and expanding internationally.
Now we'd be happy to take any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will be from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Jim when we look at the 787 cost still look very high to us and -- based on deferred production numbers.
And presumably you'll be able to take a step function down in those costs at some point.
And perhaps that point is when you get out in the line mid -- line numbers in the mid-60s in order to get the program on a track that's clearly profitable and ensure that your suppliers can uniformly deliver.
Well first do you expect by midsummer when you get into those line numbers that you'll have high confidence that you're on that track? And what operational and financial goals are you following so that you'll know you're there when you've made it? I -- well it's a timely question.
I just got back from Everett and Charleston taking a look at the lines.
Doug I think our confidence grows every day quite frankly in our ability to deliver the learning curve that underlies our plans.
I think we do have a high degree of confidence that the mid-60s line number will be -- will have the production lines flowing exactly the way we want it.
And the change incorporation side of Everett is also performing well on those planes that -- where we did have a significant amount of rework.
And that is going well too.
I mean as we modify more planes there's a learning curve involved there too.
And we are on track with both the regular production and the modification.
I would also add that Charleston looks very good and we -- you're going to see the rollout of the first airplane later this week and delivery this summer.
And I think the learning curve progress in both places are giving me more and more confidence every day that the costs that underlie our plans are going to be met.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But are you expecting though that there's a point in time when we should see something that moves significantly lower? What I'm getting at is a lot of times in the early stages in a program you may not come down on the learning curve smoothly but might have break points that -- you see a drop down and then you reset.
I mean are you looking for something like that? Yes I think the -- I'm sorry go ahead Greg.
You...
Yes.
Just let me just try to take a shot at this Doug and give you some perspective.
But certainly when you look at a unit cost -- from a unit cost perspective from the first airplane that was delivered say to like line 60 we're seeing about a 40% to 50% reduction in unit costs.
And that's truly coming down that learning curve.
Now there's no question it's bumpy when you look at it per unit because some of those airplanes have been in flow longer than others.
But when you just generally look at the trajectory it is coming down the curve that we would expect.
When you asked that -- what do we look at specifically obviously we're tracking airplane by airplane versus what we would consider our target and budget.
We're looking at out-of-position items on every airplane shortages condition of assembly quality flow time how many hours we're burning per job versus what we budgeted.
And all of that obviously given us the confidence to make either the next rate break or overall indicators the production health of the system.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So by midsummer you're expecting -- so right now things are lining up as you would like them to for midsummer when you get to this presumably smoother flow? Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
And we'll still have planes in change incorporation at that time Doug okay? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
But we'll be working that down which is the second element of the equation.
As that gets worked down on plan and by the second half of the year you should notice a significant decline in the number of those planes hanging around and delivered to customers.
And so it's a combination of both the production line smoothing out beyond line mid-60s and change incorporation planes being delivered I think is going to give you the same confidence we have today.
And next we go to Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification and then a question.
Greg on the accounting differences in the quarter.
It looks like you have just about just over $1.2 billion.
I wondered if you could comment on what the gross amount would have been for the development programs and whether that was materially higher than the net that you reported for the quarter.
Yes.
So on that difference about -- roughly about 80% 85% of it was 787 related if that helps you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
And so the remainder would have been 7 4.
But what -- on a gross basis was that in excess of $1.2 billion? And we had negative spending in other programs? Yes yes.
So for -- yes.
Well no there was positive on -- particularly on 777 and 737.
That was about $150 million to $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you stated briefly that improving profitability on the 87 and the 47 were -- was a focus.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Would you think it's possible? I mean I'm not thinking short term here.
But per that comment would you think it's possible to increase the reported margins on these programs without seeing block extensions? Is that something that's was in the realm of...
Yes.
Yes that is.
I mean certainly block extensions would help.
But putting that aside just to give you some -- I talked about -- on the last call but we're looking obviously within the factory and some of the stuff we just talked to Doug about.
But also within the supply chain we've got about 300 to 400 different projects in-work right now that are all around profitability.
So as those mature -- and some of those obviously won't all come to fruition but the ones that do mature then we'll put them in the booking rate.
Research Division</strong> What's the sort of general timeline on those sorts of projects? They really range but we've got a good process in place for identifying them and then bringing them to maturity.
But just depending on how complex they are Carter depends on how we can get comfortable that we can really capture the productivity that maybe was initially identified as we went through the process.
And as I said we're doing that with our supply chain as well and utilizing our experience with this and some of our lean experts and bringing them out to the supply chain.
And we're going to be doing a lot more of that going forward as we continue to focus on profitability on this program.
And we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your guidance? And you basically said nothing really changed other than this reserve reversal and yet there was significant upside in the quarter.
And I'm trying to think about go -- what's not sustainable? We know the 87 is going to drag down the BCA margin.
But the flip side is -- certainly NSS margin was well below what you're saying it's going to be for the year.
So can you just talk about the remainder of the year? Sure.
Well as you said we had a great first quarter and off to a great start but it's early.
When you look at the balance of the year I think we've got great plans in place to execute.
But we do have the as you said the dilutive impact on the margins on the 87 and the 47.
We've got some plans for investment in some productivity tools.
As we get these programs at a higher rate we're again looking for further opportunity to streamline the production system and lower flow times.
Obviously we got some taxes with those higher deliveries in the back half of the year.
And then we do have some provisioning for just risks and uncertainties that are just tied to -- in fact we got to make another rate break which again I -- we got good plans in place to do on the 87.
And we got a 47 rate break coming up.
And so we're just kind of provisioning for that as we execute.
Now if we execute through that that'll certainly give us more confidence and we'll come back to you.
LLC Research Division</strong> And anything about NSS? Why margins were so low this quarter and why they should recover to kind of 7.5% over the course of the year? Yes yes.
I mean so some of it is volume.
It's just BCTM coming down as we expected.
We had fewer launches in the quarter.
And then we had a mix between -- on the satellites between government and commercial.
And then some adjustments some small adjustments to EAC.
So that's basically it.
And we see good plans in place to recover to be within our guidance for the balance of the year.
And we'll go to Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to come back to the 87 with just a couple more numbers probably the only ones you haven't provided.
And that's -- could you give us the WIP at the end of the quarter the total WIP on the 787? And also I'm wondering Greg if you could break out this might be helpful the $1.2 billion increase in deferred production costs? Is there any way of breaking that out between units excess over average and change incorporation? Does that -- I think that might give us a better sense as to how things are tracking.
Finally on the same point and sorry for the 3-part question but it's all kind of the same thing you already gave a nice number of 40% to 50% reduction in unit costs on the 87 over -- thus far.
I'm wondering if that somehow you could quantify the improvement you're seeing in change incorporation.
Because certainly it didn't -- it looked like you had some setbacks during the quarter.
Yes.
Okay let me start there.
I mean -- yes.
I mean when you look at those units as I said 40% 50% on average is what we're seeing.
On the change incorp airplanes certainly a lot -- they're all different depending on what condition of assembly and what changes need to put in place.
So what we have there is kind of traditional metrics in place about cost per job and how many open jobs are left et cetera by airplane by section of the airplane.
And that's where we look at the productivity there of are we achieving the plans that we have in place there or not? I would tell you as of now we're within our plans.
So what we had originally thought that it would take to complete those airplanes we're coming down that trajectory.
So certainly still a lot of work to do there but we're making good progress.
I would tell you we're trying to take advantage of learning in a nontraditional assembly environment where we've got the airplanes broken out depending on the number and the complexity of the jobs open and we've got mechanics assigned to the same job.
So an example.
If you're assigned to take this wire harness out on this airplane you're taking it out on future airplanes.
And we hopefully capture a learning within and we've experienced that up to now.
So I think we've got that well understood.
But certainly a lot of work in front of us.
But I think it's operating very well.
Your other question on 787 it's about $22 billion gross inventory.
Research Division</strong> What was the WIP portion of that though if you have that? I got the other number off the call.
But...
About $17 billion.
Research Division</strong> $17 billion.
And then of the $1.2 billion in deferred production costs during the quarter can you break that out between the 2 components? What is unit 50 whatever? And what is fixing up unit #15? Yes most of it is in the factory not in change incorp.
And we'll go to Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg if we could stay on that topic and maybe throw a few more numbers out now that we have the WIP.
I -- if I go back to Q3 it looks like unit cost was a little over $300 million and deferred production by unit was about 2/3 of that.
So let's call it $216 million.
And then using the numbers you just gave us the $216 million has dropped about $10 million a quarter.
I calculate $196 million for Q1 in deferred production per unit.
And the total unit cost is about $279 million.
So down 13%.
That $279 million based on the comment that you made earlier about a 40% to 50% drop am I to understand that that gets down to the $200 million level or $190 million by the time we get to that line number you talk about? I mean it's 40% to 50% from the first delivery to about line 60.
Research Division</strong> Oh that's where I'm getting...
And that's on average.
But I can tell you -- and hopefully this answers your question but we're seeing unit cost improvement on the airplane quarter-over-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is -- from a deferred production basis maybe this is the best way to talk about it you've done a little over -- about $10 million per quarter.
How do you see that curve continuing over the rest of the year by quarter? Ask that again I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Well so we've gone down about $10 million per quarter in deferred production on a unit basis.
So let's call $216 million in Q3.
We're at $196 million in Q1.
Does that $10 million start to expand and accelerate each quarter from here on out? How do we think about that $10 million evolving? Yes it does.
But as I said earlier on a -- when you look at it on a unit basis it's not linear because of the different airplanes that you're delivering.
So you're delivering some out of change incorp you're delivering some out of final line.
So it's not -- you're not going to see the linear effect quarter-over-quarter here.
But overall it's -- we're seeing improvement on a unit cost basis.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair then Greg to ask the question what should the number be on that 60? On that first airplane that avoids the mod? What number? Research Division</strong> On line 60.
Since that aircraft is now a modless airplane according to what Jim said it's -- it doesn't have that stop that interim stop.
What should the deferred production be at that point? You will have gotten the out-of-sequence stuff out of the way.
Well I mean all I can tell you is that on a unit basis it's a 50% improvement.
When you -- that's what we look at as obviously we look at the deferred production.
But we're looking at improvements and coming down learning curves we look at it on a unit by unit basis and that's essentially what we're seeing right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to finish up on the topic you said $24 billion at the end of the year in terms of 78 inventory I think you said? Yes.
Research Division</strong> What is that number when deferred production stops growing out a couple of years from now? Which I think is what James guided to maybe a few quarters back.
Yes I don't think we've talked about that specifically.
What we did talk about is that deferred production will hit about $20 billion at about -- in 2013.
And then as we continue at 10 per month that'll start to burn off.
And we'll go to Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the -- a few questions ago on the full year outlook.
I believe last quarter you said that you expected 20% of the full year earnings to land in the first quarter.
And you now have 29% of the full year earnings having occurred in the quarter 27% if we take that 11 out of the numerator and the denominator.
So that would either mean that one your full year number is just too low; or two you had a decent amount for earnings occur earlier in the year than you anticipated.
Can you say which of those it is? And if it's the latter what happened? Well we had -- obviously we had the onetime on the legal reserve and then we had Saudi.
So as you know we started that contract early and we reached an agreement.
And we were able to meet those milestones and capture that revenue in the first quarter all in the first quarter.
So that was pretty significant not something that would continue through the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just on the balance of the year the -- to get into the BCA margin guidance you have to have significantly lower BCA margins than you did in the first quarter.
And you've talked about what some of those inputs are.
The one I struggled the most with is just the new program period expense.
Can you quantify as of now how you expect that to play out through the rest of the year? It is purely on fleet support or just in general? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well both if you can.
Yes.
I mean we expect fleet support to kind of moderate now that we've reached the level from -- going from Q4 Q4 last year to Q1 this year.
So that -- we expect that to moderate.
But there is some increases in period expense like I talked about earlier that we're expecting in the kind of third fourth quarter timeframe.
That combined with the dilution is really what -- what's driving that.
And like we said we're provisioning for some uncertainties as we get through these rate breaks which we certainly plan to and we got good plans in place we'll readdress it.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify what the fleet support is and what the other period expense is? No.
Not yet.
I mean I just -- they're essentially in line with what we had this quarter.
And primarily all driven by 87.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm going to change the subject entirely and we're going to talk something called orders and opportunity okay? I think that was our...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We beat the rest of that to death.
The -- you've signed an agreement with Embraer.
You've been able to extend the C-17 line.
The F-15 capability on the Saudi airplane is better than the U.S.
Air Force has today.
Could you talk about what you're doing to make that military portfolio more attractive? Well you've named a couple of things right there.
I mean I think the C-17 affordability and acceptance on a global basis is progressing.
The F-18 which you didn't mention is a highly affordable aircraft.
The last multiyear took significant cost out of the aircraft and shared it with our customer.
I think our Satellite business if you look at the market share associated over the last 12 months and also going forward looks very promising.
You've seen an expansion of our product line in the Satellite business to the medium power and the smaller satellites both of which have good launch orders.
I think the Helicopter business remains very committed too even in a very difficult budgetary environment and our position in the Helicopter business is about as strong as you can get.
And it's -- and I -- and that's clearly because any conflicts that can be envisioned out there are -- in many ways are buttressed by a strong position to be able to move troops around regionally quickly.
There's a -- and then of course we've invested significantly over the last few years either through prototyping or external growth and acquisition in cyber unmanned and ISR.
So we're trying to position ourselves well for that world that's coming at us.
And when you add it all up both on market share on the international side is increasing and our -- the -- and our position within the U.S.
budget is strong.
And I didn't even mention P-8 and Tanker which are the 2 growth programs that are on top of all of that.
So we feel like it's a down environment in defense.
We feel about as well positioned as we could be.
And as you know we're addressing the cost issue very aggressively on top of all of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe what I'm -- I don't want to take too much -- but is there anything more immediate? I mean for example with Embraer in Brazil.
I mean is there -- I mean clearly the Pentagon recognizes a need to improve relationships there and you've signed some agreements.
Is this a foreshadowing of an improvement in your competitive position? Or is this still a long putt? When you talk about -- I see.
So...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> F-18 sales to Brazil.
Yes yes.
Okay I...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry Jim.
So when you say Embraer you're talking about some localization efforts we've got in Brazil.
I see.
Yes I mean the F-18 Brazil competition is along with similar competition in the UAE and other places.
I mean we have some significant international opportunities.
I think we have a good shot in Brazil.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick numbers follow-up.
If I look at your pre-R&amp;D numbers on Commercial Greg versus a year ago they're about 300-basis-point difference.
Is that most of the period cost and other items you have addressed? Because it sort of masks what would appear to be productivity improvements in the core business.
Yes I think you got it Howard.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the 37 and the 777.
Can you talk about both the pricing environment as well as the productivity environment on those 2 programs and what your view is on margin rates for those 2 programs as we move out over the next couple of years? I think the summary on pricing is 777 steady steady as she goes capturing value in many ways a uniquely positioned airplane today and significant productivity associated both with better conversion and with taking up rate.
So the margin environment there I would say is good and favorable going forward.
37 all of the comments I just made on productivity apply.
Significant productivity both absorption kind of productivity due to increased rate as well as conversion productivity per unit.
Slightly more aggressive pricing environment due to the introduction of the MAX and the NEO.
So there's launch customer kinds of pricing that have happened in a few cases.
But I think at the end of the day the -- we anticipate about half of that market which is a big number.
And we see a pricing environment that's not too different than the pricing environment we've had historically after we get through some of the launch customer -- loss -- launch customer pricing which is part and parcel with our business.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So does the -- did the productivity gain offset the pricing pressure so that margins can remain resilient? Or do we see some pressure on margins? Yes.
Well our philosophy is that we don't let pricing get in the way of margins.
And the answer to that is productivity.
So that's the plan.
And we'll go to Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jim a question for you.
I've been thinking about your product lineup versus what your airline customers seem to want and the sort of growing trend towards up-gauging.
Can you talk to us a little bit about what your strategy is to address the airline needs to -- that currently operate 757s on the North Atlantic and the 57 users where they can't replace their planes with A321s or 900ERs? Or if they have to choose they appear to be leaning towards the A321 versus the 900ERs.
What's your strategy to fill that hole? Well I think job 1 is to get the MAX in the marketplace.
And as you point out the MAX-9 and the A321 do fill a lot of that mission.
Now admittedly I think there -- when you compare it only to a 757 there is a -- you've either got to stress this -- the -- A3 stretch in the sense of stretch economically or mission-wise the -9 or the A321 into some of the thicker routes that the 75 is involved with.
And I think we're trying to think through exactly how to fill that market.
But the largest part of that segment is going to be filled by the larger versions of the narrow-body.
But there's some product planning we have yet to do to do it and we'll announce that in due course.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And a follow-up to Jason's question.
The -- some of us are hearing anecdotally that the A320 NEO pricing is either at current A320 prices or in some cases seems to be below.
So did I hear you correctly in terms of what you've intimated on pricing on the MAX that you offset efficiency with possibly deleterious pricing? Is this also -- but is there also embedded escalation help offset that? Yes it -- I mean you know the equation.
I mean there are some competitive environments where the price like it often does in these introductory environments where the price was pretty aggressive even more aggressive than an immediate productivity plan to offset the margin we have today.
But our judgment is that over the long term as you look at history and how these kind of pricing environments sort out even when you're conservative we feel comfortable that productivity in the long run on a program basis can offset the pricing any pricing environment we see.
And next we go to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is the first quarter I can remember in history when you didn't have some kind of slip or screwup on the 787.
So you've reiterated your guidance for 35 to 42 deliveries this year.
Could you give us some color in terms of how that rolls out by quarter? And are there any opportunities now that you've seen to have it under somewhat better control to exceed those numbers or be at the upper end as opposed to just getting in at the low end? Lee -- Cai I would just say overall as we've said as we get beyond the engineering change and we stabilize the production base this business will become more and more predictable in terms of its projected execution.
And I'm -- it's -- I don't know whether to laugh or cry at the award you just gave us.
First quarter ever.
But having said that we have increasing confidence that as the issue becomes more and more centered on production execution which this company does pretty well and we reduce the risk significantly on change incorporation and supply chain we have growing confidence.
Now the guidance we've given you has some back-end loadedness to it and that's just because that's the way the production ramp is happening and that's the way the learning improvement in change incorporation is happening that Greg talked about.
And so I would say while there may be an opportunity to do better than the low end of that guidance and I think there is but we're -- the guidance is what it is I think the ramp nature of it leads us to be conservative and to call it that way as we sit here today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you give us some update in terms of your headcount in BCA? Is that -- has that peaked? And what should we look for going forward and the implications for productivity? Yes Cai...
Yes go ahead Greg.
It does peak this year.
And then as we kind of ramp off down on the development programs and come up more on the production programs and then with productivity it comes down in 2013.
That's the projection right now.
And we'll go to David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You guys had this delamination issue pop up during the first quarter on 87.
Can you give us an update how things are progressing there how many airplanes have had the issue did you fix? Is it taking the 10 to 14 days that Pat talked about I think back in February? Yes.
I mean I think the -- as I think we told you then and as we feel today the fix was understood quickly.
It had to do with workmanship.
The workaround was quickly identified.
I think it is now -- has dovetailed both into change incorporation and the line.
I think roughly 14 15 airplanes have already been reworked.
I think in our world it did have a schedule impact within our month-to-month schedules which we don't share with you that doesn't impact our guidance for the year at all.
But I would say understood fixed moving forward and we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> And Greg you talked about Saudi being a positive in the quarter.
Can you quantify how much that was? I'm sorry? Saudi.
Oh Saudi.
About $800 million.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will be with Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim you mentioned in your prepared comments the production rate increases that have planned for the next 3 years at BCA.
There has been some industry commentary that perhaps you and Airbus could be oversupplying the market.
How do you get yourself comfortable that your customers are not over-ordering and there's not double booked slots [indiscernible]? Well I mean obviously we manage a process that tries to separate the wheat from the chaff implied in that question.
I mean we work very closely with our customers understand the financeability of what they want to do understand their fleet plans.
In many cases as you know Rob the demand for these airplanes is driven as much by fuel efficiency as it is by supporting growth.
So -- and the price of oil where it is and where most people think it's going to go a lot of the demand is driven by replacing older aircraft or aircraft that may not have -- and that this may happen -- this may happen to a greater degree today than it has happened before because financial markets remain open to finance these things and this is all about improving the bottom line of the airlines.
So it's some growth particularly in Asia and Middle East it's replacement in the developed markets supported by financing that's there.
Then I would ask all the questions you'd be asking about: Is this a bubble? Is this -- can you support the growth? Are you going to be in business? And if we get to the point of seeing it differently we'll adjust our plans.
And ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
For members of the media if you have a question [Operator Instructions] I will now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communication.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And we'll go to Jon Ostrower with The Wall Street Journal.
A question about the prospective takeover of  American Airlines or merger between U.S.
Airways and American Airlines there.
Can you give some thoughts on what that order -- how would that merger rather -- may mean for your order backlog? Obviously there's -- U.S.
Airways which has been heavily leaning towards Airbus for the last more than a decade.
And can you just kind of share your thoughts on what it may mean for actually reaching 42 a month and really holding there for a while on narrow-bodies? Well obviously we'll confront whatever environment we find.
But I think the -- American is working through the process now and they -- and we support them emerging from this thing as a stronger airline.
If at that point a merger makes sense to the 2 managements of the company we'll support that as well.
Obviously U.S.
Air does have more Airbus airplanes than Boeing airplanes right now and American has got more Boeing airplanes than Airbus airplanes.
And that's because of the missions they fly.
So we've seen mergers before.
If it happens -- it's not clear that this one's going to happen by the way in our view.
But if it does we'll confront the environment that we've confronted before and we tend to do pretty well.
Our next question is from Chris Drew with The New York Times.
Can -- if we can go back to Tanker for a minute.
As you look back now over the past year do you have a -- any better sense of why Airbus didn't bid lower as a first -- EADS didn't bid lower first question.
And then the second there's been various stories about whether it was costing you how much more it might be costing you or the government than you expected.
And if you could sort of address where all that stands now.
Well it's hard for me to know exactly why Airbus bid what they did or didn't.
I think -- or EADS in this case.
The -- I will say we were aggressive as I have said and we worked our supply chain very very hard and got the same kind of commitments from them that we in turn were making to the Air Force which is a fixed-price development environment.
So a lot of elbow grease a lot of working with partners in advance to get to a number that we thought was aggressive but responsible.
We have known all along that the tightest part of the program for us will be the development phase which is what we're in right now.
But we're hitting every milestone.
I believe based on what they've said publicly our customer is happy with the progress.
We're focused on it every day.
And there's no doubt that this is an aggressively bid program but the war fighter and our customer is benefiting from our efficiencies.
And the last thing I'd say is that we brought together the Defense side and the Commercial side of our company together more aggressively than we've been able to do historically and we took a lot of inefficiency out of teaming together as One Boeing to get this pricing capability where it should be as well as working with our supply base.
So elbow grease is the answer to your question.
And next we go to Mike Mecham with Aviation Week.
I'd like to follow up a little bit on the situation with where you are in 737 MAX.
Also where you have been hit and how from the situation in Wichita.
Which programs if there is any particular program stands out as perhaps taking the most problem with this if you can? Sure.
I mean just an update on the 737 MAX program.
We're on schedule.
We have got the statement of work that we're going to do and not do.
We'll have firm configuration next year.
We think we struck the right balance between containing the work statement to reduce risk and providing the new engines and some other tweaks that bear only on the efficiency of this airplane for our customers.
So we're feeling good.
I think Wichita the -- as you know the Spirit operation supports a number of our programs.
The -- where they have the most content is the 737.
And they've been back to work full-time starting this Monday after roughly a week's delay.
And we are cautiously optimistic that there will be no material impact to our programs any of our programs this year.
And we'll update you if any of that changes.
Is there any part of this natural disaster situation in Japan and elsewhere that has caused the company to rethink? Or have you launched any rethink of your various facilities around the world? And just exactly what threats they're under and how they and you need to respond? Well I think you've seen us take some moves to diversify our manufacturing base somewhat.
Charleston is an example.
And that's -- that is an element of the thinking.
Our next question is from Brendan Kearney with Post and Courier.
Jim 2 quick questions.
First you said that the first delivery from South Carolina will be midyear in summer.
Is that different from the June and second quarter estimates that other company officials have offered? And second you noted you were here in Charleston yesterday.
Are you making a return trip to Charleston this week for Friday's rollout? And which musician do you hope to hear perform at that event? No no I didn't -- as to the first part of your question the -- no no change.
I mean it's -- those are one and the same comments.
I'm just using slightly different wording.
The -- and Jim Albaugh will be leading the entourage on Friday.
Operator we have time for one last question this morning.
That will be from Steve Wilhelm with Puget Sound Business Journal.
I just had 2 quick questions.
One is could you characterize the production lines in Everett and Charleston and just how they're different? What ways that they're approaching things differently or the learning curves are different because of their experience? And is -- that's one question.
And then secondly there's been a lot of rumors about your turbo fan option for the MAX.
I just wondered if you could address that.
Yes I mean I think the point of the 2 production lines in Everett and Charleston is more that we're trying to make them the same than we're trying to make different.
We're trying to leverage the same processes the same learning across our company.
So leaving the change incorporation side of Everett aside for a second the 2 production lines as we envision them and as we're managing them are -- we're trying to duplicate and learn rather than separate and be different.
The -- what was the second part of your question? The gear turbo fan.
The gear turbo fan the -- yes.
The -- right now as I think we've announced many many times we are working exclusively with CFM on the MAX and we're very happy with the development there.
We're confident that we can meet the targets that our customers need and that we've promised them.
So that's our plan going forward.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the The Boeing Company's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Ms.
Stephanie Pope Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Ms.
Pope please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I am Stephanie Pope and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this Web presentation.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everybody.
Let me start today by addressing the evolving business environment followed by some thoughts on our performance during the quarter.
After that Greg will walk through our financial results and outlook and we'll take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
Despite slower global economic growth and a range of uncertainties including the European sovereign debt crisis we continue to see positive worldwide expansion in air traffic.
Passenger traffic in particular remains resilient led by trends in emerging markets.
Cargo traffic on the other hand is stabilizing with growth expected early next year.
This is an area we will continue to monitor closely in the months ahead.
Customer demand for our Commercial Airplanes is being driven roughly equally by a strong replacement cycle and worldwide fleet growth.
Deferrals and cancellations remain at or below our historical averages and we continue to foresee aircraft financing as broadly adequate and available through 2012.
With 694 new orders thus far in 2012 we expect order traffic to remain strong through year end with a book-to-bill ratio finishing well above 1 primarily driven by demand for the 737 MAX.
Customer response to the 737 MAX remains brisk.
We are receiving new orders and converting previous commitments at a steady pace with 649 firm orders among more than 1 200 total orders and commitments.
The recent order from United Airlines for 150 737s pushed the 737 program above 10 000 orders for all 737 models marking the first commercial airplane program in history to surpass the 10 000 order mark.
With approximately 4 000 total airplanes on order our backlog is one of the most balanced and diverse by geographic region and product type that we have ever experienced with about 2/3 of it committed from airlines based outside of the U.S.
and Europe.
We continue to focus on steadily increasing production rates to deliver that backlog faster and create new capacity for customers wanting to get more efficient airplanes into their fleet sooner.
Overall we are positioned exceptionally well in the growing commercial airplane market with a superior lineup of innovative new products and services that deliver unmatched fuel efficiency and operational performance.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security now.
While the threat of budget sequestration and further U.S.
defense cuts continues to create uncertainty.
International markets continue to offer a broad range of new sales opportunities.
As you know an extended downturn in U.S.
defense spending has been our planning assumption for several years.
And our teams have taken substantial steps to maximize operating efficiencies and reduce our infrastructure costs.
We remain committed to continued action in this regard to ensure our near-term performance and competitiveness while delivering greater value to budget-constrained customers and continuing to fund investment in future capabilities.
Leveraging the strength of our expanded international presence and partnerships we expect the substantial share gains made in recent years will continue generating up to 30% of our Defense revenues in the near future.
With our portfolio of proven affordable and reliable systems and services combined with a track record of strong execution and innovation we believe we are well-positioned for continued success in this constrained and challenging environment.
Turning to the second quarter highlights on Slide 3.
Core operational performance was strong during the quarter and we achieved some key milestones across both of our major businesses.
Commercial Airplanes generated healthy results as production and services programs continue to make productivity gains.
We delivered 150 airplanes for the quarter for a total of 287 airplanes year-to-date including 11 787s and 13 747-8s.
We also completed 3 additional 787s which are ready to be delivered to our next customer Air India once an impending government review process is complete.
We delivered the 4 000th next-generation 737 and the first passenger 747-8.
Lufthansa now has 2 747-8s in revenue service.
We also completed final assembly of the first 787 built in South Carolina and received FAA certification of that new facility.
Condition of assembly and out-of-sequence work within the 787 production system has improved significantly.
And airplanes are now flowing off out of final assembly in Everett without a stop in our modification center.
With stability now achieved at 3.5 airplanes per month we expect to increase the rate of 787 production to 5 per month by the end of this year tracking to our plan to reach a rate of 10 per month across our final assembly lines by late 2013.
On the 747-8 we successfully transitioned to a production rate of 2 airplanes per month.
As we stabilize at that rate we continue to focus on productivity to drive increased profitability.
In addition to its sales momentum definition of the 737 MAX continues to mature to plan.
We recently firmed up our maximum takeoff weight projections extending the airplane's existing range advantage significantly to allow our customers the flexibility to open up new markets.
We are on schedule to reach firm configuration in 2013 and to enter service in 2017.
Our disciplined increases in production rates on the 737 and 777 also remain on plan.
The 737 rate will increase to 38 per month in the second quarter of 2013 and then move up to 42 per month in the first half of 2014.
Production rate on the 777 program will increase to 8.3 per month in the first quarter of 2013.
These 2 programs continue to generate substantial value for our customers and our stakeholders.
Defense Space &amp; Security also generated strong operating results for the quarter delivering 35 aircraft and 1 satellite for a total of 65 aircraft and 4 satellites year-to-date.
We also captured several new and follow-on awards including the F-15 Singapore performance-based logistic follow-on contract Apache Block III low rate initial production for the U.S.
Army and the first international contract in our growing cyber security business.
A key execution milestone was met during the quarter when the KC-46 Tanker program successfully completed its Preliminary Design Review with the U.S.
Air Force.
The review demonstrated that the preliminary design meets systems requirements and establishes the basis for proceeding with detailed design.
The program will now focus on the Critical Design Review plan for the second half of 2013 and remains on plan to deliver 18 combat-ready tankers by 2017.
In the unmanned systems area the autonomous X-37B spacecraft returned safely to Earth after 469 days in orbit.
We also completed first flight of the autonomous hydrogen-powered Phantom Eye long endurance unmanned aircraft another key milestone as we continue to perfect this technology.
In summary strong core operational performance continues across both of our businesses as we move into the remaining 2 quarters of the year.
This momentum combined with a backlog of $374 billion and an expanding portfolio of market-leading products and services has strengthened our outlook for 2012 and increased our confidence for delivering on our growth plans in the years to come.
Now over to Greg who will discuss the details of our financial results and our outlook.
Greg? Thanks Jim and good morning.
I'll begin with the second quarter financial results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the quarter was $20 billion up 21% from last year driven by higher Commercial Airplane deliveries and Defense volume.
Net earnings were $1.27 per share up 13% excluding pension expense reflecting strong core operational performance from both of our businesses.
Operating margins of 7.7% and operating cash flow of $908 million again reflect strong performance across our core businesses.
Let me discuss our Commercial Airplane business on Slide 5.
Commercial -- Boeing Commercial Airplanes' second quarter revenue was $11.8 billion up 34% from the same quarter last year reflecting the planned and successfully executed increase in airplane deliveries.
Commercial operating margins were strong at 10.2% reflecting solid core operating performance across programs.
Gross inventory for the company includes approximately $23.5 billion related to the 787 program an expected increase from the second quarter of approximately $1.9 billion as we continue to ramp up production rates on the program.
Included in the work in process inventory are the deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the program was $13.2 billion and at the end of the second quarter and includes approximately 56 airplanes still in process.
As I stated previously the deferred production balance will continue to grow as we increase production rates and introduce the 787-9 derivative as we see deferred production peaking at slightly over $20 billion then declining after the program achieves the planned rate of 10 per month and stabilizes at that level.
Increasing profitability remains a top priority on this program as we continue to identify opportunities to improve producibility and drive cost reductions in our factories and throughout the supply chain.
Commercial Airplanes backlog remains a strong $302 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Moving now to Slide 6 our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security second quarter revenue increased 7% to $8.2 billion with solid operating margins of 9.1%.
Military Aircraft quarterly revenues increased 13% to $4.1 billion driven by increased delivery volume on AEW&amp;C and Apache programs.
Operating margins decreased to 8.8% reflecting strong core operating performance offset by an inventory adjustment on the A160 program due to near-term market conditions and technology maturity.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenues of $1.9 billion decreased from last year driven by lower volume associated with the Brigade Combat Team Modernization program.
Operating margins of 6.7% reflect lower earnings due to a onetime positive contract adjustment in the prior period at United Launch Alliance.
Global Services &amp; Support revenue increased 11% to $2.2 billion for the quarter primarily driven by higher revenue on integrated logistics support.
Operating margins were strong at 11.9% reflecting performance improvements in maintenance modification and upgrade programs.
Defense Space &amp; Security backlog remains constant in the quarter at $72 billion reflecting over 2x its 2012 revenue.
International business remains very strong with approximately 37% of our current Defense backlog representing sales to customers outside the United States.
Now turning to Slide 7 in our other businesses.
Boeing Capital generated $31 million segment earnings in the quarter.
The portfolio balance declined to $4.1 billion on normal portfolio runoff and asset sales.
During the quarter unallocated expense was $200 million higher than the prior period due to higher pension expense in 2012.
Let me turn to Slide 8 and I'll discuss cash flow.
Increased commercial deliveries and strong operating performance in both of our businesses generated $1.7 billion of operating cash before pension funding.
Operating cash flow of $908 million includes $763 million of planned discretionary pension contributions made in the quarter.
Cash flows are expected to continue building through the balance of the year as we continued our disciplined cash management focus and execute on planned increase in commercial deliveries.
Turning now to cash and debt balances on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $10.3 billion of cash and marketable securities which includes $422 million of debt repayments made in the quarter.
Our cash position continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Capital expenditures of approximately $356 million were as expected.
Turning now to Slide 10 and we'll discuss our outlook.
Due to strong performance in the first half and the outlook for the balance of the year we're increasing our earnings per share guidance for 2012 by $0.25 to be between $4.40 and $4.60 per share.
We have solid plans in place to execute our growth plan.
However we’re recognizing that there is still a lot of work to accomplish and this guidance continues to include consideration for uncertainties and risks associated with that ongoing business growth.
We're also raising our revenue guidance for the year to be between $79.5 billion and $81.5 billion to reflect increased volume driven by F-15 Saudi wins earlier in the year.
Our forecast for Commercial Airplane deliveries remains at between 585 and 600 airplanes.
Our forecast continues to include a combined 70 to 85 787s and 747-8 deliveries split roughly equally between the 2 programs.
The planned increased deliveries in the second half of the year are driven by continued successful execution of production rate increases increased change incorp aircraft completions and newly manufactured 787 airplanes flowing directly off the production line to our flight line.
Our forecast for Commercial Airplane revenues remains unchanged at between $47.5 billion and $49.5 billion for the year.
Commercial Airplane operating margin guidance has been increased and is now expected to be approximately 9% reflecting the strong performance on production and service programs.
We expect commercial operating margins during the second half of the year to be lower than the first half primarily due to dilution from the 787 and the 747-8 deliveries as well as increased investments and period expenses associated with increased deliveries and production rates.
Defense Space &amp; Security revenue is increased to be between $31.5 billion and $32 billion reflecting increased volume on F-15.
Operating margins are expected to remain at greater than 9% as we continue to focus on maximizing efficiencies and reducing infrastructure costs across BDS.
We continue to expect operating cash flow for the year to be greater than $5 billion including $1.5 billion discretionary contribution to our pension plan.
Other segment expense remains at about $200 million and unallocated expense of approximately $1.5 billion.
R&amp;D expense for 2012 is also unchanged forecasted to be between $3.3 billion and $3.5 billion as we continue to invest for future growth.
And capital expenditures remain at approximately $2 billion.
Overall second quarter performance continues to deliver strong operating results and we expect that performance to continue as we remain focused on production program execution and profitability rate ramp-up and ongoing productivity improvements across the enterprise.
Now I'll turn it over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Thank you Greg.
With a strong first half performance behind us and a strengthened outlook for the remainder of the year our team remains focused on disciplined execution quality and productivity improvements and meeting customer commitments.
Our priorities going forward are unchanged: successful production ramp-up and profitability across our Commercial Airplane programs performance to plan on our development efforts on the 787-9 and the 737 MAX and Air Force Tanker and repositioning our Defense business while extending our core programs and expanding internationally.
I must say I am proud again of our team's achievements and I have confidence in our ability to deliver on our goals for the remainder of the year.
With strong product and services strategies a diverse backlog and a commitment to innovation and continuous improvement we are well-positioned for sustained growth in the years ahead.
Now we'd be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first from the line of Rob Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This question is for either or both of you.
You provided a nice guidance boost and it's more than we had expected at the second quarter.
But as Greg just noted there is still risks in the second half which in part seems evidenced by your 9% BCA margin target.
So the question is what are you continuing to protect for in the current guidance for H2 in both businesses? And specifically how does the introduction of the MAX into the 737 program pull factor in? So Rob the MAX is in the guidance that you see and we're expecting to introduce that into the block probably sometime in the third quarter.
But when you look at the balance of the year there's certainly -- we're provisioning for some risks there.
And with regards to rate ramp-up that we have planned for the balance of the year I think we've got good plans in place.
And I think we'll execute that to plan but we're making sure that we're getting everything in order and having the appropriate diligence put into that.
We're making some investment in productivity and tools in the balance -- the back half of the year.
And obviously state taxes increased slightly as we think through the -- look at the delivery profiles through the balance.
And as I said the pricing provisioning for the MAX is already in the guidance that we provided.
But that's essentially it.
Research Division</strong> Anything other Defense side? No.
And let's go to Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig a little bit more into that 737 block situation.
You're not only going to be adding MAXs but I believe some current NG aircraft that are probably facing some pricing pressure out there in the competitive market.
And you have 2 000-and-change aircraft in the block right now.
You'll probably add I don't know 500 600 something like that Greg.
Could you maybe quantify how much pressure we might expect on the 737 gross margin? Any kind of context? Well Joe as I said it's in our guidance.
We're certainly -- just like I talked about before any time we introduce a new airplane there's certainly some introductory pricing with new customers.
We've got learning curve obviously on the new airplane and we're working that.
We're working productivity across the board to try to offset any of that.
And I think we've covered that appropriately in the balance half of the guidance we provided.
So I think we got it well understood and we're going after it.
So I'm not I don't think as concerned about it as some of the folks that I've seen publish on this topic are.
Research Division</strong> Is the bigger issue the MAX? Or is it the pricing on the remaining NGs? Well I think it's just -- as I said it’s any time you're ramping down a program and then ramping up a new one certainly there's pricing considerations taken in that.
Customer by customer it's different.
But again I think we know where it is.
We're working through our production system.
We're working through our supply chain.
And again I think we've got good plans in place to address it.
And our next question is from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On the 787 Jim you said that right now you're on-track in terms of production to ramp to 5 per month by year end and then 10 per month at the end of next year.
But could you describe what are the things that you're looking for as the most important hurdles to have absolute confidence you're going to make those goals? And specifically can you comment on Charleston? I know the aft fuselage has been a little bit of an issue down there and where do you stand on that? Well you're right.
I mean the aft fuselage in Charleston is a hot spot for us and we're addressing it.
I don't think it's a showstopper in terms of getting to rate but it is something we're focused on.
I think there are a couple of other areas in the supply chain that have been well known to us for a couple of years now.
And we've been addressing them in a very disciplined fashion.
Again we don't see trains stopping as result of it.
We have a little more work to do in a couple of places.
But the big thing as you know is getting the final production line steadied and producing airplanes with no further stops in the modification center.
That has been happening according to plan.
That is probably the single most important thing.
The -- and also that we're getting the modification airplanes that we're still going to be working on here for another 1.5 years plus that those come out that the work scope is understood and that those come out as planned.
I think you noticed for the first time in a long time on one of our development programs we produced more planes than we delivered this quarter as some of the machinations with our Air India customer had to get settled out as they went through a political transition there.
So it's not as if we don't have issues but I think we know what they are and we're working on them.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then on that point about producing more than you've delivered if you put Air India aside do you feel you're on-track right now in terms of the deliveries? I know there haven't been too many just recently here.
And I just wanted to get a sense if getting those out to customers is going the way you expected to aside from that Air India? Yes I think Air India -- and I'm looking around at the guys around here.
Air India is the only one that there was a deviation from plan.
There were fewer in May by customer design.
That's just the way the demand worked out than in some other months.
And we do have a ramp-up in the back half of the year.
But as I pointed out we're on-track with the final assembly now steadied and matured.
And the modification airplanes coming out on time.
So I think we're in good shape.
Our next question is from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Jim you had talked early on and said that the deferrals and cancellations are running below historical average.
Can you just talk a little bit more about the discussions you've had with customers with regards to postponements? And can you tell us about how the overbook situation looks right now on narrowbodies versus where it was say a quarter ago? And if there's anything that might change your comfort in reaching some of these production plans just from the economic backdrop? And then I know I only have one question but just Greg if you can just say have there been any changes in the accounting quantities in any of the commercial programs? So I'll answer quickly.
I would say there is relatively little change in our outlook for the stability of the backlog for want of a better word I think that's what you're asking.
I mean the deferrals and cancellations are at or below historical averages.
That's a number we track.
And what that generally means is that airlines for reasons that more accrue to their own operating challenges are coming to us and asking to move things around.
And other airlines that are doing better can take things earlier.
So we're having a normal amount of that discussion.
We are very vigilant to the point you are implying though.
I mean the world is a fragile one economically.
But you've got to keep in mind that these airplanes half of them if not slightly more than half in some of the major models are replacement airplanes that -- where people view this as a quick payback investment.
To get airplanes that are somewhere between 15% and 25% more efficient is a very quick payback -- replacement -- a payback investment that is independent of overall GDP growth which is what we tend to focus on.
So a lot of the demand is driven by that.
And when viewed in that frame it makes a little more sense.
Now we are very vigilant here.
And we track financeability of the airplanes out a year or 2 even though they tend to get financed a little closer in than that so that we can see things we can see storm clouds as they gather.
And we're always talking to our customers.
But right now the data we see says for the reasons I've mentioned says we're in a stable situation.
Greg do you want to answer… Yes Sam we had 2 changes in the quarter.
777 increased by 50 and the 747 increased by 25 units in those blocks.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick point of clarification and a question.
Greg can you tell us of the $1.36 billion in unit versus program differences how much of that roughly is related to the 87? And I wondered if you might speak to recent press commentary that suggests some of the challenges with the Rolls Trent 1000? And any potential pressure you think that may put on one your delivery guidance for the year and two your production plans? So it's about 3/4 that is related to the 787.
But just kind of on that point a little bit Carter just to kind of give you a sense because I know folks are focused on this and I completely understand why.
But just to kind of give you a sense from an operational point of view because -- and then get into kind of the deferred production and what we're seeing.
But to Jim's point earlier we're seeing a lot more improvement in the condition of assembly.
So these major subs are coming in at or near 100% much better condition over time.
And when you look at kind of jobs behind schedule significant improvements there across the board whether that's in Charleston or in Everett.
When you look at open jobs that are traveling out to the flight line I think we talked to you about line 66 going clean.
Just as an example I just walked line 70 and we're looking at about 160 open jobs so much much improvement.
We're cycling landing gear where we should be cycling landing gear.
We're putting engines on where engines should be put on.
We're putting interiors in.
So when these airplanes are rolling out now they're rolling out right to the flight line which again is a real significant improvement even over the last couple of months.
And then of course you know the progress at Boeing South Carolina.
Also in EMC we're seeing improved performance there on the jobs behind schedule.
And then just overall shortages they're down about 50% from a year ago.
So I think it gives you a sense of the focus and the discipline that's being put in place to drive efficiencies in this program and get the airplanes delivered.
Now translating that into unit cost progress which is really what you were asking there we're seeing improvements and you can see that in how the deferred production balance has grown quarter-over-quarter.
So on a per-unit basis we're seeing improvements.
When we look across units from again kind of the line 7 or 8 to line 66 I told you before 40% to 50% improvement.
It's now closer to 50%.
So making good progress on both fronts.
So I think it gives you confidence in the production system.
Certainly a lot of work left to do but also gives you a sense of the focus on productivity and profitability on the programs.
So that's kind of how we look at it on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> Would it be fair to say that you're tracking ahead of your own internal projections for the curve? I’d say we're tracking pretty much to plan across the board.
Gearbox yes.
Oh gearbox.
So gearbox you saw was a very small number of airplanes.
We’ve swapped 4 of the 5 out and the fifth airplane we expect to be complete early next week.
So we're well -- got it well in hand.
So 4 are back in the air.
And round-trip a little over a week so pretty minor.
Our next question is from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes 2-part question on the 787.
First is if you look at the deferreds and kind of set it up to where you measure that by planes produced it looks like the deferred per unit went from kind of near $160 million in the first quarter to somewhere $120 million $130 million.
Is that essentially your understanding? And secondly given that you've got -- more of the planes are clean what's the opportunity that you could be at the upper end of 42 planes delivered of 87s or even above it? So directionally Cai on the unit cost deferred that's right.
I mean that's the improvement we're kind of seeing quarter-over-quarter.
And it's back to all the things I had talked about the focus on improving the production line getting things back in line where they need to be to get the Boeing Production System up and running.
So we’re making good progress there.
On the deliveries as we've said and as we've planned the bulk of those are planned for the balance of the year.
About 50% will come out of EMC and 50% will come off the line.
Again kind of pretty much as we had planned.
So I think the team's very focused on it and I think we got a good plan in place to meet our guidance there.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked gentlemen and lady you talked about being sold-out for 2012.
Could you talk a little bit Jim about 2013 and how you're thinking about the challenge of -- with such a large backlog in many cases where you really see the next opportunity to slot customers? Well I think as you pointed out we're out a little further than we want to be ideally.
Of course that reflects a lot of strength.
And I think we have some nearer-in opportunities on the 747 and the 777 but we're pretty -- the story is more the robustness of the backlog than open positions unless you had a specific model you were interested in Howard.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean we could go through them all but I won't do that now.
But as you sort of -- I mean what you might be able to say is that the discussions with customers really point to not very many available slots over the next 12 to 18 months.
And so that if we look at your orders they may not be as robust as this year or next year but one shouldn't interpret that as a challenge to the health of the business? I would characterize your characterization as being right.
I mean I think that's true.
I mean we stand to have a pretty robust orders year this year as you know.
And there are still some opportunities out in the mid-teens in some of our widebody products.
But by and large the pressure would likely be downward beyond this year slightly.
But we still haven't sorted that out yet.
We've got to figure out what our guidance is or isn’t.
But we still have some slots and we have a big backlog to work through.
And our next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about potential future capital deployment.
The company has not bought back stock or raised the dividend for a few years now.
And there's obvious reasons for that with the macro and the cash profile as you're developing new programs.
But as you move forward obviously the development program and the cash generation picture changes.
The demand profile looks pretty good.
How are you thinking about what you might do with the dividend and with share repurchase as we move further along in the year? Yes.
So as I've talked about prior to your point as we're executing through the year and gaining more confidence as we ramp-up our production rates and generate cash we're starting to get more -- having more robust dialogue around specifics of cash deployment.
So kind of more of a balanced approach similar to what you've seen in the past.
Certainly investing in the business and we've obviously talked about the MAX and some of the other potential investments going forward proactively managing the pension fund as you've seen we started to do this year.
Returning cash to shareholders whether it's dividend or share repurchase we'll have further dialogue again later this year.
But expect to kind of restart share repurchase in particular in the 2013 timeframe and then of course pay down our debt.
So that's kind of how we're thinking about it.
We'll solidify our plans later this year and give you a sense of what we're doing specifically in those areas.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just slip one follow-up in there on pension.
Can you size the P&amp;L headwind that we're looking at next year versus this whether it's -- assuming discount rate doesn't change or assuming you used the rate as it is today? Yes I think that's the big thing.
It depends on what happens with the discount rate obviously.
But for every 25 basis points it's an additional $70 million in expense.
So that's kind of the sensitivity that we look at.
And next we go to Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes a question on Defense side.
It was nice to see the big guidance raised and I'm wondering if you’ve baked in an assumption of a macro bounce-back in the second half or if you just see risk takedown on the domestic Defense business balanced by international ramping.
I'm just trying to kind of better understand the puts and takes in the second half for Boeing that gives you the confidence.
It's nice to see.
I just want to know your assumptions a little bit.
Yes okay Heidi I don't think it speaks to an assumption of a macro bounce-back this year or next year or the year after.
I think we're in a cyclical downturn.
I think it really reflects international order strength.
That's what the raise this year reflects.
I think the domestic orders -- or revenues I should say domestic revenues are about what we assumed at the beginning of the year.
Research Division</strong> And Jim can you talk just a little bit about your appetite on the M&amp;A side in Defense.
Typically in down cycles the big players tend to pick up the weaker players.
And is your interest -- do you have interest in small tactical deals? Or are you starting to maybe think about maybe some larger deals going forward? Well I think the small tactical deals are kind of the flow deals that we're implementing in areas that you're well aware of.
And we're continuing that.
I think it's -- the big major deal is one that is -- would not be done without a great deal of thought.
And that's really not on our radar screen despite the impending storm clouds.
We think we’ve got a pretty strong business here.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And one last housekeeping question for you Greg.
I may have missed this in earlier comments.
But can you tell -- give us an update on the parked planes in Seattle? How many did you deliver in this quarter and year-to-date? And refresh us on the full number for the year.
So for 787s Heidi? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
So our guidance for 787s is 35 to 42 airplanes.
And we -- obviously we've delivered 11 year-to-date.
So as I said the balance is -- as we planned it was in the back half.
About 50% of those will come out of the change incorp facility and another 50% will come right out of the final line.
So as I talked about as the airplanes are rolling off the final line in -- right to the flight line that will happen kind of around August timeframe and that's when you'll see that start to ramp up.
And we'll go to Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Greg just a quick clarification question and then one for Jim.
On the 737 block you mentioned that you might extend it during the third quarter.
So that means that the margin rate for the entire back half of the year would be impacted by that change? And then Jim if you could just maybe update us on Global Services &amp; Support the trends that you're seeing kind of big picture in that business and whether you think the revenue rate that we're seeing here today is sustainable for the next couple of years? So yes on the 737 as we work through and finalize our cost projections and mature those we'll embed those into the -- into our normal process of increasing our block which again I think will be in the third quarter and we'll have that all put together.
But as I said the margin that you see in the guidance today that incorporates that initial block.
So we've already I'll say kind of provisioned for that going forward.
But again we're working across the board on the cost structure of that as we introduce that airplane.
So again I think we have good plans in place.
Certainly lots of work going forward.
But we're feeling pretty good about where we are.
As to your question on services I think we still see a robust commercial services business.
There is some pressure from parts of the world where the economies have slowed.
There's always some pressure on so-called deferred maintenance but we haven't seen big pressure yet.
On the Defense side a little more pressure.
I think as you may be aware when downturns like the one that's facing us now happen the Defense customer often looks to protect employment and brings some more of the work back in-house which puts pressures on us to do a better sales job and get more technology into our solutions.
And we're going through some fit and finish there now.
Our next question is from Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim a couple of questions on pricing.
You've mentioned narrowbody pricing is competitive at the moment.
How would you characterize this versus your experience in the past? And also have you been able to use the monopoly position on the 777 to maybe subsidize the 737 price situation? Well the -- I would characterize the pricing around the narrowbodies as similar to other transitions that I've seen for example the NG transition from the classics.
And so I would not call it abnormal.
As Greg mentioned there is always some launch pricing that is -- tends to be a little more aggressive for a while.
And as the older models wind down there's some fill-the-gap pressure.
But our view is we're not going to change that.
And so our issue is driving productivity to offset it.
So we're 100% focused on getting the productivity in our factories and in our development efforts to the point that as we did before where we offset this.
That's the thing we can control.
As to the 777 the -- monopoly was your word not mine.
I have my legal counsel sitting next to me.
But it is fair to say that as the A350-1000 stays out to the right that some of our earlier assumptions about early competition from that airplane haven't come true.
So it's fair to say that pricing is a little better than we had assumed a year or 2 ago.
And we'll go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if Greg maybe you can comment on the cash contribution for pension profile in the next several years and how that's probably improved from the transportation bill.
And is that going to pull forward some of -- to an earlier question some of your cash deployment initiatives? And then just a clarification you mentioned $70 million for 25 basis points and just to put us all on the same page the benchmark from which to start that is that $300 million headwinds if they stayed flat and then $70 million on top of that? Yes that's about right Myles.
And on the trans bill certainly from a mandatory funding point of view it certainly pushes it out to the right and gives us some relief there.
But as we have always kind of focused on a disciplined approach to funding our pension plan we're going to continue that.
But it certainly does give you some flexibility in the years to come.
But I don't see our plan on how we will fund that changing going forward.
Our next question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Strategic question for Jim.
When you think about Airbus potentially setting up a production line in Alabama what implications does that have for Boeing? Well I mean I think the -- if doing it produces better performing lower cost more reliable airplanes then I think it's a good move.
I think by and large commercial customers care less about where things are produced and more about the attributes of the airplane.
So if that move furthers those goals then it will be a good move.
On the other hand if it complicates their supply chain -- I think this will by their fourth final assembly around the world.
I'm impressed with controlling a supply chain for one final assembly factory then that could present some challenges.
My guess is they also have some challenges around employment with some of their European worker constituencies.
But look it's tough enough to run one company rather than two so I'm -- it's up to them to manage it.
And we'll go to the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Greg can you tell us specifically how many airplanes you plan on adding to the 37 block to account for the MAX at least initially? And then second question on 787 deferred production cost should we expect to see a bigger step down than what we've been seeing here a bigger step down in the second half of the year given that more airplanes will be coming straight off the line? Yes so David remind me again of your first question.
Research Division</strong> First question was how many specifically you're adding to the block for MAX.
We haven't finalized that yet.
So we'll finalize that in the third quarter and we'll let you know what that is.
With regards to the deferred production yes I mean we're continuing as I said to kind of come down that learning curve.
When you look at the in-factory obviously flow of that that's where we're seeing the improvements.
On the delivery side as I've talked about before when you look at the progress there it's not going to be linear because we're delivering out of sequence.
So you've got some older airplanes in there mixed with some newer airplanes.
So that's going to be a little choppy over time but overall trajectory heading in the right direction.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will be from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a question Jim on demand for 747-8.
Now that you have production stabilized here at 2 a month and it's been a number of I guess a little bit of a period of time where we've seen some order activity for that aircraft.
What do you see for demand out there and going forward? Well we have a pretty good pipeline.
So I am not worried strategically at all.
I think there's a couple of campaigns that we need to convert over the course of the next 6 months.
And I think we're well-positioned to do that.
And it's about where I thought it would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're still comfortable with holding the production rates at 2 a month here over the next...
Yes.
That completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We have time for a few questions today from the media for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll first go to the line of Jon Ostrower with The Wall Street Journal.
A question about the remaining deliveries for 747s and 787s on the rest of the year.
You've got 70 to 85 planned.
You've kind of mapped out that half are going to be 787s.
Can you talk about the balance of 747-8s and where that stands in terms of overall demand for freighter aircraft in light of sort of where the economy is and also where your production system is in terms of converting aircrafts that were already built before and the balance that are coming out of your factory directly? Okay.
Well I'll address deliveries and then Jim will address the market.
But we've got about 20 airplanes left in the third and fourth quarter to deliver.
About 30% of those will come out of change incorp and the balance come directly off the line.
So as you've seen we've had good deliveries in the first half and expect that to continue through the balance of the year.
And in terms of your overall confidence for delivering those 70 to 85 where do you see kind of the key milestones for the remainder of the year? And what happens from your perspective if that 70 to 85 isn't hit? Well I think on the 747 as I said most of it's coming off the line.
So it's more of a I'll say traditional production system running.
So I don't see a significant risk there.
On the 787 as I said earlier 50% coming out of EMC and 50% coming off the line.
Certainly the ones coming out of EMC we've got a close watch on good plans in place making good progress.
But if you were to ask me where the risk is it's certainly more in that area.
But I think we've got it well handled.
And then in terms of the Rolls-Royce gearbox issue you talked about the 5 aircraft that are currently in service with ANA.
Are you willing to do gearbox swaps on airplanes that are already in production in the flight line in Everett? Sorry you broke up there Jon at the end.
Can you say that one more time? Do you have gearboxes to swap out on production 787s that are at Everett? Yes.
And as I mentioned before we've implemented fixes on 4 of the 5 ANA.
I'm not sure is the fourth one in the air? We're not -- yes -- but we're doing the same thing in the production gearboxes and we don't anticipate any impact on schedule at all.
Our next question is from Susanna Ray with Bloomberg News.
I'm wondering if you guys could you please comment on why many of the announcements at Farnborough were commitments rather than firm orders and what that might indicate.
That's typically the way we make announcements where -- what point are you trying to make with the question? I'm wondering if there's any difficulties in converting the commitments into firm orders.
No.
The orders are being committed if anything a little faster than we’d planned.
Okay.
And then if you guys could please clarify I think earlier this year you had said that about 2/3 of the year's 787 deliveries were going to be the change incorporation planes.
So I'm wondering now I’m hearing the 50% is that shifting more towards the newly built or is this just the difference between full year and half year? Yes that's it.
Yes.
Initially that was the full year view.
And now with the balance of the year it's about 50-50.
Got you.
So full year is still 2/3? Yes.
There's no change? Okay.
Great.
And we'll go to Andrew Parker with the Financial Times.
Just want to ask you a question about the book-to-bill ratio.
I take it you'll be well above 1 with your book to bill this year because of the progress you're making with 737 MAX orders.
But will you expect book to bill then to decline in 2013? And if so will that tell us that the order cycle will have peaked for you guys just as it appears to have peaked for Airbus already? Well I think you're right.
I mean this year's orders are driven by the success of converting the MAXs and we're already above 1 I believe at this stage of the year.
And next year just because the book to bill may come down a little bit mathematically and my guess is that it will be around 1 somewhere next year doesn't mean that next year isn't a strong year.
It simply means we're not converting introductory orders next year.
Yes I just wanted to know whether realistically though we're at the end of this sort of order cycle right? I mean it doesn't mean your earnings aren't going to grow because as you ramp-up deliveries clearly earnings should grow but whether you would agree -- I mean John Leahy made this point at Farnborough that he thought the order cycle had probably peaked.
I mean their book to bill is coming down this year.
They say it'll be greater than 1.
It feels and looks like your book to bill is going to come down next year and it's probably telling us that this order cycle has peaked.
But do you agree with that analogy? Well I agree that orders will probably be less next year than this year.
I think it will be driven more by a massive introduction being converted this year.
Recall that we still see a 5% growth rate about half replacement about half fleet.
Fleet size increases link the GDP out into the future which would imply if we're right that it will be a return to a steady state rather than a deep trough.
I guess that's the way I'd answer your question.
And we'll go to Steve Trimble with Flightglobal.
I was wondering if you could talk about your scheduling for the 787-10X and bringing that to the board for authority to offer to airlines.
Yes we are getting greater fidelity on the evaluation now.
And it's hard for me to predict exactly when we would move forward.
But it's end of this year beginning of next year could be timing.
It's not timing we have baked into any plans yet but the fidelity around what we want to do technically and how it could benefit our customers we're getting near the end of that evaluation.
So we'll make the judgment the last half of this year on exactly when we'd begin some conditional offerability.
But it looks like a pretty good airplane that will have a lot of market demand and will be the absolute perfect next step on the 87.
That's the way it looks today.
Operator we'll take one more question please.
And that will be from the line of Mike Mecham with Aviation Week.
Can you talk through a bit about how airlines are approaching the ordering between the current offerings the NGs and the MAX? They're kind of mixing -- you had a big mix quite an order from United you just got one from Mexicana.
What is their thinking as to why they're choosing some NGs now? Is that a matter of trying to get airplanes as quickly as they can versus when they're going to factor in their new -- the MAXs as a new offering instead of an obsolete offering? And when that tide might change to the point where it will just be all MAXs or very heavily MAXs? Yes I mean I suppose if we had unlimited amounts of MAXs that we could turn on tomorrow which we don't they would order all MAXs today.
But the facts are the NGs themselves represent dramatic improvements over the planes they're replacing.
The MAX availability starts in '17 and ramps in the -- toward the end of the decade and into the next decade.
So there aren't as many available.
So we're in this very pleasant situation where they can buy the existing airplane get dramatic operating improvements versus what they got now ramp toward an even better airplane starting in 2017.
So what that looks like in their operating plans is sort of steady improvement for the next decade while ordering both.
And that also helps us obviously as we transition production.
So I think the whole thing is underpinned by a great airplane the NG.
When do you think the big transition will take? Are we talking 2017 about the time that MAX actually starts entering service? Or when's that tipping point? Yes well the tipping point will be when we get to full production which I don't have the exact number of months it'll take to get to full production here in front of me.
I don't think we’ve provided that as guidance.
But normally these things take over a year or so to get up to full production.
And so the market will not have full availability of the MAXs until toward the end of the decade.
By full production you mean full production on total 737 lines? Yes yes I'm saying full switchover from NGs to MAXs.
In 2014? No no it will start in 2017 and then ramp from there.
So the market -- and that's part of the reason people are buying NGs now.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have additional questions please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Ms.
Stephanie Pope Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Ms.
Pope please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I am Stephanie Pope and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this web presentation.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everybody.
Let me start today by addressing the business environment followed by some thoughts on our strong performance during the quarter.
After that Greg will walk you through our financial results and outlook.
And then as Stephanie said we'd be glad to take your questions.
Starting with the business environment on Slide 2.
While varying degrees of economic uncertainty continue across global markets Boeing's growth forecast remains positive.
Strong core demand for Commercial Airplanes continues split roughly equally by worldwide fleet growth on one hand and a healthy replacement cycle fueled by the compelling economics and rapid return on investment that comes from replacing older less efficient airplanes with the dramatically more efficient new technology airplanes we are building today.
Our Commercial Airplane backlog grew in the third quarter to $307 billion with conversions of 737 MAX commitments to firm orders fueling that growth.
Net new orders for the year exceed 925 airplanes and we expect a continued flow of order traffic through year end.
With approximately 4 100 airplanes on order our backlog represents the most diverse customer set we have ever experienced.
We have an unparalleled balance by geographic region and product type with about 2/3 of the order book committed to airlines based outside of the U.S.
and Europe a major shift from just a decade ago.
Also supporting our positive outlook requests for deferrals and cancellations this year remain at or below historical averages.
In fact we continue to receive customer requests to accelerate deliveries of our fuel-efficient aircraft giving us the ability to rebalance our delivery skyline when deferrals or cancellations occur.
Overall the Commercial Airplane market remains very attractive and Boeing is positioned exceptionally well.
Our superior lineup of innovative new products and services deliver unmatched fuel efficiency and operational performance supporting our airline customers as they deal with high oil prices and the pressures of the current environment.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security.
Notwithstanding the ongoing threat of U.S.
budget sequestration the overall Defense environment remains mixed with the declines in U.S.
spending that we've been anticipating for several years being mitigated in part by growing demand in international markets.
As you know and as our results have shown our teams have gone great lengths to maximize operating efficiencies and reduce our infrastructure cost to compete effectively in a more austere U.S.
budget environment.
We've also engaged our supply chain to further advance our affordability drive given the high levels of supplier content in our products and services.
We remain committed to these actions to ensure both our near-term performance and long-term competitiveness while delivering greater value to budget-constrained customers and continuing to fund investment in next-generation capabilities.
These efforts also are fundamental to our success in international defense markets where growth is being driven by evolving regional security issues and the modernization of aging inventories.
We expect our substantial share gains made with international customers in recent years to continue generating up to 30% of our Defense revenues in the near future.
With our portfolio of proven reliable and affordable systems and services combined with a track record of strong execution and innovation we believe we are well positioned for continued success in this challenging environment.
Turning to the third quarter highlights on Slide 3.
Strong core operational performance in both our major businesses continues to drive strong overall results including higher revenues improved cash flow and solid operating earnings.
Commercial Airplanes generated healthy third quarter results as deliveries increased and production and services programs continued to make productivity gains.
We delivered 149 airplanes for the quarter for a total of 436 delivered year-to-date.
By close of business today we will have 5 airplanes 787s delivered this month and 28 Dreamliners will be delivered this year including the first 787 assembled at Boeing South Carolina an historic moment for Boeing and our customers.
We delivered 787s to 4 new customers during the quarter and airline and passenger feedback on the airplane remains extremely positive.
Perhaps the best reflection on the airline's successful introduction was the decision by both launch customer ANA and JAL to exercise options for a combined 21 additional airplanes.
ANA and JAL are both operating this airplane and know it well so we are very pleased to see that recognition of the Dreamliner's value so quickly.
Production system performance on the 787 also continues to improve.
The transition to a production rate of 5 per month and final assembly is underway and will be reached by year end a key milestone on our path to reach a rate of 10 per month by the end of 2013.
Steady progress also continues on development of the 787-9 with engineering design at 90% complete and the early stages of major assembly beginning as planned in this quarter -- in the quarter.
Final assembly of the first 787-9 is scheduled to begin in mid-2013 with the first customer delivery in early 2014.
On the 787 -- 747 I should say -8 we have delivered 21 airplanes year-to-date while maintaining our focus on improving production processes and profitability.
Both the Freighter and Intercontinental passenger model continue to perform well in service producing high dispatch reliability rates and bringing a new standard in efficiency to airline operations.
During the quarter we booked orders for 5 Intercontinentals from Air China and we expect additional orders and commitments for both models by year end.
While we are closely monitoring softness in the near term market for air freight our view that air cargo remains a compelling long-term growth market is unchanged and our family of highly efficient and capable freighters will be the market standard.
As I mentioned customer demand for the 737 MAX remains high with 858 orders to date including 119 orders booked in just the last couple of weeks.
Development of the airplane is tracking to plan for firm configuration in 2013 and entry into service in 2017.
Our discipline increases in production rates on the 737 and 777 also remain on plan.
737 rate will increase to 38 per month in the second quarter of 2013 and then move up to 42 per month in the first half of 2014.
Production rate on the 777 program will increase to 8.3 per month in the first quarter of '13 and is already moving through our factories as we speak.
These 2 programs continue to generate substantial value for our customers and our company.
Defense Space &amp; Security also generated strong operating results for the quarter delivering 45 aircraft and 5 satellites for a total of 110 aircraft and 9 satellites year-to-date.
We captured several new and follow-on awards including the third P-8A Low-Rate Initial Production contract for the U.S.
Navy a B-1 follow-on upgrade contract for the U.S.
Air Force and a contract to produce and launch the 10th Wideband Global communication satellite for the U.S.
Air Force.
Among key development and production program milestones during the quarter we completed the inaugural flight of the Canada CH-47 helicopter which is continuing to progress through ground and flight test activities.
The second Intelsat 702 medium power satellite was launched and is on orbit enhancing broadcast and communication services across 4 continents.
And we completed the first formal flight test and weapons release on the P-8I aircraft which is scheduled for first delivery to the Indian Navy in 2013.
The KC-46 Tanker program continues to make solid progress as well with every major program milestone achieved on or ahead of schedule as we prepare for the Critical Design Review planned for the second half of 2013.
The program remains on plan to deliver 18 combat-ready tankers by late 2017.
Before I summarize I'd like to return to something I alluded to earlier and that is a significant new competitiveness initiative we've launched in collaboration with key partners across our Defense and Commercial supply chains.
As we look to the future we see only growing expectations from all customers for the value we provide in our products and services.
They want more capability and greater efficiency for less money a dynamic common across many industries.
For our part we are facing more aggressive competition from both existing and emerging OEMs.
To get out in front of these dynamics now rather than fall victim to them later we have reached out to key supply chain partners and asked them to join us in driving major improvements in product quality reliability cost and overall supply chain efficiency.
We are taking a team-oriented approach to examine opportunities both inside Boeing and in their businesses to further streamline design manufacturing and production processes gain economics of scale where possible and share best practices and new ideas for doing things better tomorrow than we are today.
We believe the effort will create value and growth opportunities for all of us benefiting everyone from our suppliers to our customers and our shareholders.
In summary with another quarter of strong core operating performance under our belt and major milestones being achieved with increasing regularity by our team my confidence in our strategic position and growth trajectory continues to build.
We are producing and delivering the technology our customers need unlocking the value in our backlog and maintaining our course for growth and sustained business performance.
Now over to Greg who will discuss the details of our financial results and our outlook.
Greg.
Thanks Jim and good morning everybody.
I'll begin with our third quarter financial results on Slide 4.
Revenue for the quarter was $20 billion up 13% from last year driven by higher Commercial Airplane deliveries.
Earnings per share was $1.35 a share up 5% excluding pension expense reflecting continued strong core operational performance from both of our businesses.
Total operating margin is 7.8% and $2.3 billion of operating cash before pension contributions again reflects strong performance across core businesses.
Let me discuss our Commercial Airplanes business on Slide 5.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes third quarter revenue was $12.2 billion up 28% from the same quarter last year reflecting the planned and successfully executed increase in airplane deliveries.
Commercial Airplanes operating margin was strong at 9.5% reflecting solid core operating performance across the business offset by the planned margin dilution of increased 787 and 747-8 deliveries.
Gross inventory for the company includes $24.8 billion related to the 787 program an expected increase in the third quarter of approximately $1.3 billion driven by the ramp-up of production rates on the program partially offset by the increased planned deliveries.
Included in the work and process inventory are the deferred production costs.
The deferred production balance for the program was $14.3 billion at the end of the third quarter and includes approximately 53 airplanes still in process.
As I stated previously the deferred production balance will continue to grow as we increase production rates and introduce the 787-9 derivative.
This will peak at slightly over $20 billion and then decline after the program achieves the planned rate of 10 per month and stabilizes at that level.
As a result of the successful order capture on both the NG and the MAX and following our standard process we have extended the accounting quantity on the 737 program by 200 units this quarter.
While the majority of the incremental units are NGs we also incorporated an additional MAX aircraft and the associated nonrecurring MAX investments initial production costs and pricing.
Due to the continued productivity on the 737 program the resulting margin impact was not significant.
Commercial Airplanes captured $17 billion of orders during the quarter and increased their backlog to $307 billion.
Moving now to Slide 6 in our Defense Space &amp; Security business.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported third quarter revenue of $7.8 billion down 4% from last year on lower volume and delivery mix.
Operating margins was 10.5% again reflecting solid core performance.
Boeing Military Aircraft revenue decreased to $3.8 billion driven by fewer deliveries on AEW&amp;C and C-17.
Operating margins increased to 11.7% again reflecting strong performance across multiple programs.
Network and Space programs revenue of $2 billion was down from last year driven by planned lower volumes associated with the Brigade Combat Team Modernization program.
The activity on this program is in the final stages of completion.
Operating margin increased to 8.1% primarily driven by higher earnings from United Launch Alliance and United Space Alliance.
Global Services &amp; Support revenue of $2.1 billion increased in the quarter driven by higher P-8 training volume and A-10 re-winged deliveries.
Operating margin at GS&amp;S was strong at 10.7%.
Defense Space &amp; Security maintained a solid backlog of $71 billion reflecting more than 2x current revenue.
International business remains very strong with approximately 38% of our current defense backlog representing sales to customers outside the United States.
Now turning to Slide 7 and our Other businesses.
Boeing Capital generated $33 million in operating earnings during the quarter and the portfolio balance remained steady at $4.1 billion.
During the quarter Other segment expense was $74 million down from the prior period due to a gain in 2011 from the reduction in allowance for losses related to financing receivables.
Unallocated expense was $69 million higher than prior period due to higher pension expense in 2012.
This is partially offset by an adjustment for postretirement medical in the third quarter of 2011.
Let's turn to Slide 8 and we'll discuss cash flow.
Increased Commercial Airplane deliveries and strong operating performance in both of our businesses generated $2.3 billion of operating cash before pension funding.
Operating cash of $1.6 billion includes $750 million of planned discretionary pension contributions bringing total contributions for the year to $1.5 billion.
Cash flows are expected to build as we continue our disciplined cash management focus and execute our planned increase in Commercial Airplane deliveries.
Cash deployment remains a top priority for us and we'll continue to provide more details on this as we firm up our 2013 business plan later this year.
Turning to cash and debt balances on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $11.2 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Our cash position continues to provide strong liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Capital expenditures of $428 million were in line as expected and we'll turn now to Slide 10 to discuss our outlook.
Our earnings per share guidance for 2012 is now between $4.80 and $4.95 per share up from between $4.40 and $4.60 per share reflecting continued strong performance.
Revenue guidance for the year has been --increased to be between $80.5 billion and $82 billion.
And we continue to expect Commercial Airplanes to deliver between 585 and 600 airplanes during the year including a combined 70 to 85 787 and 747-8 deliveries split roughly equal between the 2 programs.
Our forecast for Commercial Airplanes revenue is unchanged at between $47.5 billion and $49.5 billion for the year.
Commercial operating margins is reaffirmed at approximately 9%.
Commercial operating margin will continue to be strong despite some dilution from increased 787 and 747 deliveries as well as increased investments and period costs associated with the increased deliveries and production rates.
Defense Space &amp; Security revenue guidance is increased by $1 billion to be between $32.5 billion and $33 billion reflecting higher business volume and more favorable program mix across the 3 business segments.
Operating margin guidance is increased to be greater than 9.25% as we continue to focus on maximizing efficiencies and reducing infrastructures across BDS.
Due to our strong operating performance we are raising our operating cash flow guidance for the year to be greater than $5.5 billion including the $1.5 billion of discretionary pension contributions made earlier this year.
Total company non-pension expense remains at $2.5 billion for 2012.
Given the current market conditions and the unprecedented low interest rate environment we are closely monitoring the potential impacts of our 2013 pension expense.
We continue to see benefits from our liability-driven investment strategy.
And to date the return on our pension assets are approximately 10% which is higher than our assumed 7.75% return for the year.
As you know the discount rate has much more of an impact on our pension expense than the rate of return.
And last year at this time we assumed the discount rate would improve going forward.
However the rate has continued to decline to be about 3.7%.
Our pension expense for '13 will be determined at the end of the year based on the interest rates at that time and the market conditions.
However if you assume the current rate of 3.75% and our pension on our 2013 noncash pension expense would increase to approximately $3.5 billion including the amortization of assets and liability performance experienced in prior periods.
Approximately $1.7 billion of this amount will be recognized at the business unit level and the remainder in unallocated expense.
Our current ERISA funding status remains strong at over 100%.
Required pension funding remains minimal in '13 although we do anticipate to continue to make discretionary contributions above the required levels to proactively manage our liability and expense going forward.
We plan to provide detailed 2013 financial guidance with our fourth quarter results.
For 2012 our Other segment expense remains at about $200 million and unallocated expense is expected to be $1.5 billion.
R&amp;D expense for 2012 is unchanged at between $3.3 billion and $3.5 billion and capital expenditures is now expected to be $1.8 billion.
So overall third quarter performance continued to deliver strong operating results as we remain focused on production program execution and profitability rate ramp-up and ongoing productivity improvements in both our Commercial and Defense businesses.
As we look forward we expect this strong core operating performance to continue.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Thanks Greg.
With 3 strong quarters behind us and a relentless focus on disciplined execution our team is ready and committed to deliver on our strength and outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Our priorities going forward are unchanged successful production ramp-up and profitability across our Commercial Airplane programs performance to plan on our development efforts for the 787-9 the 737 MAX and Air Force Tanker and repositioning our Defense business while extending our core programs and expanding internationally.
We are pleased with our progress in each of these areas and we intend to continue building momentum for significant and sustained growth in 2013 and beyond.
Now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> One of the things you often talk about on this third quarter is about R&amp;D and I was wondering if you can talk a little bit like you did pension going into next year.
How are you thinking about R&amp;D specifically within BCA? There's a number of development programs you've been thinking about whether it's the 787-10 but also as the MAX activity has been picking up should the trend be down flat? Should -- when does it start to turn back up again? Sam right now we're seeing it about in line with this year.
Obviously the 787-9 starts to ramp down but the MAX ramps up but we're continuing obviously to make strategic investments in a lot of those products you discussed but we see it in line with how we'll finish up this year.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Hate to dedicate my question to pension but I'm going to do it because I think it's really important for you guys here.
Clearly a big increase is expected in pension expense next year and I think it's weighing on your stock quite a bit.
Just wondering if you could give us your latest thinking on pension accounting mark-to-market accounting.
Some other – of other large companies have switched.
What's your thinking there? And you're over 100% funded from an ERISA standpoint.
Would you consider when you think about the trade-off between share repurchase and pension contributions would you let an accounting issue like this divert potentially cash into the pension fund from share repurchase prospectively the next year? Yes Joe as you said from an ERISA perspective we're over 100% funded.
Understanding the pension expense that we talked about is noncash and we've made discretionary contributions and as I mentioned in my remarks we'll continue to do that and assess that going forward.
We're always looking at our reporting options certainly and to provide you with more visibility on how the core operating performance for the business is doing.
And I think also our liability-driven investment strategy continues to pay off.
So we continue -- as I said we continue to look at our reporting options and we'll do so going forward and we'll engage you guys on that.
Research Division</strong> Greg do you plan on giving us more information on capital deployment in January on your earnings call or might you do that before then? Yes well later this year we'll plan to give you some more clarity on that.
And your question about buyback versus pension I mean that's -- again when we look at our overall cash deployment strategy we take that into consideration.
And next we'll go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a broader strategy question for Jim if that's okay.
This is something we talked about a little bit last time I was in Chicago with some folks.
When you think about managing risk in the product development portfolio and you think about what you're going to do with 777 and 787-10 I mean how do you think about that right? I mean 787-10 looks like it's a relatively simple derivative of existing new products but 777 is a much older airframe and how do you think about the development of that and how to manage that so it doesn't blow up and end up being a whole new plane instead of a derivative? Well I think the broad answer is that this company has absorbed a lot of development risk over the last decade but now that we're coming out of it we have a suite of technologies that we can harvest in a de-risked environment for the next decade or 2.
And I think the 2 developments you alluded to the third version of the 787 and the 777 would both be examples -- and the MAX to a certain extent would both be examples of spiraling in some of these hard-fought technical maturities and gains that we've bled through over the last decade and we have a huge opportunity over the next decade or 2 in a lower risk environment to spiral in some of this technology and produce airplanes that we don't think our competitors can equal.
Research Division</strong> But just as a follow-on.
I mean when you think about the 777 in particular being it's an older airframe not old but older how do you think about spiraling in new technology on it without it -- and managing the risk so it doesn't kind of creep into becoming just a whole new plane? No I mean that's a fair question.
I mean I think one of the options for example with that airplane and we're discussing this with our customers as we speak is to put a composite wing and a new engine on the current airframe.
The kind of performance improvements that can be generated by the composite wing and new engines are pretty eye watering okay? And building a composite wing of this size an air foil of this size would not have been thinkable a decade ago.
We could have only imagined the kind of efficiencies that it could provide us.
We now know how to do that and I can't think of anyone else who does.
So that would be an example of harvesting a 787 technology applied technology in a second generation form combining it with a current system that is known understood the fuselage and systems within the airplane to come up with something pretty special.
So that's an example of one thing that we might do.
And next we'll go to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim you talked a lot about investments both with your suppliers and obviously some of this comes internally in order to continue the trajectory that you've shown this year in terms of operating returns.
Can you give us a general sense of where you'd like those benefits to show up on the bottom line and how long might they take to get there? Well I think the -- as you suggested Howard we have paid a lot of attention to productivity in both of our businesses but that approach as in all businesses needs to be refreshed and built upon all the time because the world is going to get more difficult not less difficult from a -- more for less as I said in my remarks.
And this partnering with our supply chain partners partnering for success is the name of the program is a way -- and it's an all fronts kind of approach it's a way share processes to take time and effort out of things we do together.
It's also a way to perform our best -- to reward our best performing partners give them more work if they signed up for this kind of an approach.
It also is very mindful of quality but its objective at the end of the day is to improve the operating margins of our business and to offset inflationary and pricing pressures that may come along.
It's to control our own destiny and this is not a matter of stealing margin from our suppliers.
It's not a zero-sum game.
I've led enough Six Sigma efforts over my life to know that there's a lot of money in shared processes and there's a lot of money in analytical approaches if people start with the headset with some right to left thinking that we got to get things done.
So I'm discussing it at the CEO level with a number of our partners and it's down through our entire organization and I think we're going to make good progress over -- you'll start seeing it in the next year or so and it'll be a multi-year program.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to have one quick small follow-up.
When we look at the full-year guidance sorry to do this Greg but when you look at the full-year guidance and you look at the number of airplanes you're going to deliver and some of the other things that you have done in terms of performance it seems as if you've set yourself a low bar for the fourth quarter.
Is there something in there that we wouldn't appreciate? I don't know if you wouldn't appreciate it or not but it's the same things I have talked about before Howard.
Certainly from a BCA margin perspective we got 787 and 747 dilution in the fourth quarter that will be higher than in the third.
We do have additional investments in productivity tools and that's something we've been focused on.
As we get ramping our way up to 10 as Jim talked about we're looking for efficiencies across so we're making some additional investments there.
We obviously got some additional taxes because of the high deliveries in the back half.
And then just some obviously some risks and uncertainties and some prudence around the business growth that will take place in the fourth quarter.
So kind of all the same things I've talked about before.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask briefly about cash and cash deployment.
I mean obviously the numbers continue to come in a bit better and as you think about deployment I wondered if you can help us think about some of the moving pieces you and the Board will give the most consideration to as you think about this decision.
And specifically how much confidence can you have around the cash drag from the 787 and how do you think about the potential risk to your expectations for cash should that program see some sort of hiccup? And I guess related what are the biggest uncertainties around next year's cash flow? Is it pension or tax or orders? And maybe if you could rank those or tell me if they're significant enough to warrant any conservatism in the decision that kind of lays ahead of you and the Board.
Yes well as you said Carter you're starting -- and as we said at the beginning of the year you'll start to see the cash engine picking up steam and you've seen that this quarter and we do expect that to continue going forward as we continue to grow and focus on productivity.
Now when it comes to cash deployment first and foremost priority is returning cash to shareholders.
So we're looking at share repurchase and as I said we will give you more clarity on that at the end of the year.
From a dividend perspective similar to what we've talked before kind of a 20% to 40% payout of earnings looking at the yield.
So that's again a big focus for us.
And then I'll say the pension contributions and others but first and foremost returning cash to shareholders.
And again we'll give you more clarity on that.
But you're seeing the momentum in the business and we expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> Greg at the core of my question though I guess is are there more uncertainties for next year around all the moving pieces around cash than normal or less? And does that play a significant role in the decision? Well I think as we've retired risk you've seen us retire risk as we've kind of gone through this year certainly set this up well for 2013.
And again kind of gets back to our focus on how we'll deploy that.
So again I think we got rate increases next year that we're watching closely but quarter-over-quarter we're trying to de-risk that and I think we're doing a good job in that regard.
And next we'll go to Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in how pricing is going on the 737 at this stage and I thought if you could describe the forces that are driving 37 margins as you extend the block farther out in time that would be helpful.
Specifically over the 737 block you have costs related to the MAX introduction; there are changes in pricing volume leverage on the positive side improvements in operational performance.
Can you give a sense how these components balance out as well as any other factors that might play a role in your margin computation? Doug let me take a swing at the pricing environment.
As we’ve said before obviously there is some price pressure during an introductory period.
We're seeing some of that ease off.
In any case we are getting a margin; we are getting paid for the new technology that we're putting into the airplanes.
So there's a margin versus the NG.
So customers are recognizing the value to their economics with this airplane.
And as we develop the plane pain quite frankly we feel very good about the performance we are seeing as we get closer to actually producing it.
I think Greg if you want to comment on other elements of the program accounting that Doug was asking about? Yes well as I mentioned Doug this quarter we put in the initial investments for the MAX and some of that pricing.
But the productivity on the program has been very good.
Jim talked in his remarks and during Howard's question about some of the other things that we are doing to drive productivity to either maintain or improve margins on the core programs but that's certainly a lever as we work through the initial blocks as we introduce the new airplanes.
So I think we've got good plans in place to address that and I think this quarter is a good example as you've seen us extend it and have really a material impact on the margins.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm assuming that the MAX -- I mean the MAX at this point is only a small portion of the block and so you've taken the block out farther covering I would say most of the NG deliveries out until the MAX comes in.
And that's what I was wondering.
I was assuming that you would see some pricing pressure in that period and I just -- is it offset by the improvements you are making? How does that play out? No that's right.
I mean you're right.
The NG kind of feathers off as we extend these blocks and the MAX picks up but it's back to the productivity and the focus that we have on really driving that margin and offsetting some of those upfront investments.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But you're not going to really see -- there's not much chance to see margin expansion then -- you're not going to be able to more than offset it? Well we're always looking for opportunities Doug.
And this initiative that Jim talked about is one that's a big priority for us and we're going to capture as much as we can out of that.
And I think you’ll see that in the performance across the programs.
And next we'll go to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> You kept your guide for deliveries of the 87 and the 47 intact that they're both about 50%.
Based on the pace you looked like you're achieving on the 87 I mean it would look like you should be able to be at the top end or over it with not much trouble but the 747 looked like kind of a long putt to get to even 50%.
So could you comment on those and the potential for being over the top end and the related impact on cash flow versus your guidance? Yes so Cai obviously we think we're going to be in the range we -- guidance we provided but it is a little bit more weighted as you said on the 87s.
And again you're seeing the momentum pick up there in the fourth quarter.
About half of the deliveries will come out of the Change Incorps facility and the other half come off the final line.
So again a little bit more heavily weighted towards 87s.
And I'm sorry Cai your second question? LLC Research Division</strong> Well the related impact on cash.
I mean because it looks like I mean with all due respect but you're going to do at least 9 -- 9 plus kind of out of off the line and you really look like you're catching up on the Change Incorps so I would think 18 would be kind of like a minimum.
Well Cai if we can get more out we will.
But that's our current plan to execute within that range.
The team's obviously extremely focused on it.
You're seeing they're making good progress.
But as far as cash goes we're comfortable with the guidance we gave you.
And if there's opportunities there we'll certainly let you know.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what would the impact on cash be then? You were at 24 8 at the end of the third quarter I mean would you still get to 24 or will you do better? How does that look? Yes we've taken that into consideration.
Obviously each of these deliveries has a different cash profile depending on how long they've been in the production system and when the order was taken.
So it does vary Cai tail number by tail number and we've tried to take that into consideration with our cash guidance.
And next we'll go to Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg in the past you've talked about -- you've framed cost on the 787s on a cash basis relative to that first unit at $400 million.
It looks like you are now down -- you've improved down on the deferred production side to about $100 million an aircraft.
Could you give us some sense how that differs between Seattle and Charleston airplanes? And then as we go forward here as your visibility improves in which future quarter might we start to see the more meaningful or a change in the slope in the line? Yes so I mean let me just kind of start from an operating perspective when I look at South Carolina and Everett combined because that's the impact that you're seeing in this unit cost progression.
But we're seeing quality improvements across the board about 35% reduction in Everett.
Jobs behind schedule have improved as we get our work kind of back in sequence.
So we're seeing about a 50% reduction there.
And the amount of traveled work which we talked about before coming off final line is now down to about 125 jobs.
So we're seeing improvements across the board operationally in Charleston and in Everett and you're seeing that in the deferred production growth that you saw 2Q versus 3Q.
And that's -- as you know that's kind of how that translate into what you see financially.
On a unit cost or unit versus program basis again you're seeing improvement coming down the learning curve there.
So overall we're seeing improvements at both of the operations.
They're at different levels of maturity right now so Rob so you can't necessarily compare a tail number to a tail number but when we all get kind of up to full rate we'll certainly be able to do that.
And there's a lot of lessons learned coming back and forth between those 2 operations and we're taking full advantage of that.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak to when the slope changes Greg? Well I mean the slope really just continues as we ramp-up rate and combined with coming down that learning curve.
And as I said it'll peak in that kind of late '13 early '14.
And then as we stabilize that full rate it'll start to come down.
So that's kind of how that would translate.
Our next question is from Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jim a question for you.
I wondered if you could talk a little bit about the learning curve progress on the 787.
I know it's a bit early but you modeled this extensively.
I'm curious to hear what you've been seeing in kind of E versus A and where have you been right by and large and what have been the most surprises as you've begun to put more planes through the pipeline.
Well I think we basically have 3 learning curves in our factories right now producing the 787.
There is the underlying in-line production that is now ramping up in Everett.
There is in-line production in South Carolina and then there is change incorporation in Everett.
In the 2 in-line production environments we're seeing learning curve gains about as we had predicted.
In some cases maybe a little better but as predicted.
I think in the refurb center the EMC where we're doing some rework on some of the older airplanes we're also beginning to see a learning curve there.
That is somewhat offset however by the fact that we did the easier-to-do airplanes first and now we're moving into some airplanes that require a little more work.
And so we need that learning curve to hold production in the refurbishment operation.
But overall we're feeling good about the learning curve.
And as more and more of our production as Greg just pointed out transitions to in-line production we're fully confident that the learning curve that we projected is going to come true.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Greg just for our modeling purposes as we look ahead in terms of net margins for the company is it fair to be looking at sort of the 5% net margin the next couple of years as we mix lower margin 87 the top improvements in the mature and Defense international? Yes well obviously I'll give you more clarity on how we're thinking about that when we give '13 guidance but we're obviously just again back to kind of what Jim said on the partnering for success with our -- we're focused on expanding margins across the enterprise and we're certainly aspiring to increase our net margin overall.
As I talked to you about when we were at the conference I think that is achievable.
We've got some good plans in place but we've got to execute to those and I think up to now we have done a good job doing that and we got to continue that focus going forward.
And next we'll go to Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification question and then a quick one for Jim.
On the clarification can you talk a little bit about how you think discretionary pension contributions might create shareholder value and is there anything contractual that's going on there that's driving those contributions? And then the question for Jim on the retirement rate you've talked about the replacement cycle being the big driver of demand here and clearly there are going to be a lot of planes turning 25 through the rest of this decade but clearly high fuel is driving some replacement.
Can you talk a little bit about the overall replacement cycle of an aircraft? Are we seeing planes be retired at an earlier age than we've historically seen and do you think that that is sustainable? I think -- let me take the replacement cycle first.
It is partially dependent on the performance of the technology that is being introduced into the marketplace.
I think the replacement cycle in general generically speaking tends to be lower with incremental improvements for obvious reasons; tends to be higher with dramatic improvements.
We are in the replacement cycle now that is more on the dramatic than on the incremental side.
I mean I think in my remarks I pointed out that roughly half of the demand we're seeing is replacement of old technology with new and the 787 is probably the best example of that huge huge economic gains for fuel efficiency and maintenance cost that quickly pays back the incremental investment that you have in a new airplane versus a current one.
So in today's kind of environment I think the replacement cycle is more aggressive and is driving more of the underlying demand.
And I think that's the big thing that's going on now that I sometimes get the question why is your growth disconnected from overall GDP growth? The answer is technology driving replacement cycle which in turn drives quick paybacks for our customers.
They almost can't afford not to buy them.
So -- and then the pension question? Yes.
So really what drives this is ERISA.
That's what drives the funding requirements and as I mentioned we're at 100% funded now.
And the pension is really just the cost of doing the business and is managed over a long term to match the liability.
And as I discussed earlier we have been proactive in changing our investment strategy some time ago.
Fortunately we did to really match our investment strategy with our liability and I think it's paying off.
And in our -- we made a $1.5 billion discretionary this year and it is truly discretionary.
It's not – we did minimum requirements this year and for next year.
And as we think through cash deployment we'll certainly consider it but as I said first and foremost is ERISA funding and returning cash to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> But that doesn't answer the question which is how does that create shareholder value by doing something above and beyond what's legally required? Well it brings the funded -- it improves the funded status and over time improves the expense.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Also just a very quick follow-up on pension and then one other.
So if you don't change the current accounting mechanism have you run the math yet on what the 2014 P&amp;L pension expense change is versus '13? And then the other thing I wanted to ask about completely separately is on the Defense side the business is now going to grow this year.
If you were to assume sequestration is avoided is your Defense business on the top line up again in 2013 versus 2012 and maybe if you could touch on the big movers in terms of specific programs there? I think this was a very strong volume year for our Defense business driven by international successes.
Even without sequestration it would be hard to beat that next year although I'm not giving guidance I'm just saying it would be a challenge because of the absolute strength of the this year so unusual strength.
So that is the literal answer to your question.
Research Division</strong> And on the pension side.
Yes on the pension.
If you were to assume kind of the current interest rate environment it would essentially be flat to 2013.
Obviously that interest rate changes; there will be improvements to that but that's how you would see it today.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will be from David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Greg on 787 and cost there in line with what Rob asked can you just help us give us some color around -- we can obviously calculate what the average cash cost roughly is per unit but how much below is the cash cost on an airplane coming off -- straight off line from Everett and delivering to a customer? And then in terms of the inventory on 787 I would take it from Cai's question that you guys still are -- you're still forecasting a $4 billion inventory increase on 787 this year even though you're at $5 billion today? That's about right.
On a unit cost perspective as I mentioned before we're down about 50% going from kind of line 8 to line 66.
So we're continuing to see improvement there and expect that to continue going forward in both Everett and in Charleston.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue now with questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to the line of Jon Ostrower with Wall Street Journal.
As you guys look at the EMC for 2013 you're talking about kind of getting into the more difficult airframes how do you see the balance of deliveries in 2013? And is there risk for essentially an air pocket being created on 787 as you head into 787-9 production next year? I think the mix will skew much more heavily toward in-line production next year.
That's at the highest level.
And obviously feathering in -9 production as we're increasing rates will take some industrial engineering to get through and we've got a strong plan for it.
And there is some -- there are some plans to feather it in and the plan is strong is strong.
We're in good shape there.
And just as you think about 777 and 787-10X possible capital expenditure and really developing infrastructure for that you talked about earlier the de-risking of both the technology on 787 you've developed but you don't have a composite infrastructure for a 777 wing today or even any composite wing at the moment.
It's obviously in Japan today.
How do you see that profile and also Everett's role in that and also Charleston's role in both design and manufacture of both the 777X and 787-10X.
Well we're a long way from making a decision on where we're going to build anything related to the -- well the fuselage obviously will be built where it is but we're a long way away from making any decision on where we build the 777 wing a long way.
Our next question is from Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
I just want to ask you about the cargo market and the 747-8.
You said that in the long term you see the cargo market as compelling despite the current downturn.
But in the near term next year specifically is the downturn in the cargo market affecting the 747-8? And I'm thinking of deliveries.
Are all your deliveries for next year have you got customers for them? And Atlas at one stage was it last year rejected 3 747-8s.
Have you got customers for those? Yes we're pretty -- we're putting some -- we're crossing some Ts and dotting some Is but we're pretty much filled up for 2013 on the -8.
So we're in pretty good shape.
We moved the skyline around.
I think as Atlas found some challenging business conditions they did want to defer and cancel in one case a couple airplanes but we're in good shape through 2013 Dominic.
And next we'll go to Brendan Kearney with The Post and Courier News.
Jim a machinist union rep told me last week that he expects an election down here within a year.
Is that possible? And what would a unionized North Charleston site mean for Boeing? Well we -- I don't know who you were talking to but everybody is entitled to their opinion obviously.
We're committed to working with our employees down in Charleston.
I think the relationship between our team there and the management leadership is good.
It's not clear to us they need representation.
We like dealing directly with our employees.
Having said that as you know we -- there are many elements of our employee base that are unionized and we work effectively with them as well.
But I don't see the same thing whoever you talked to see.
As a matter of fact I feel great about the relationship between the leadership and the employees down there.
And we'll go to the line of Mike Mecham with Aviation Week.
Follow-up on the 777X program and Airbus' advancements on the A350.
Is your planning still the same for a potential EIS of that towards the end of the decade? Can you talk through how that planning process is proceeding? Well we are looking at the end of the decade beginning of the next decade kind of EIS but that's the assumption we're working with.
Our customers would like it then or sooner.
That gives us plenty of time to develop it.
What we're really trying to do is choose the right configuration for the marketplace and we have a robust dialogue going on with our consumers right now to make sure we get it right.
I'm confident that we have the technology in place to deliver a terrific airplane as I mentioned earlier and we're sorting it through making sure we've got the right configuration.
Then we'll get onto things like where we produce things exactly when we'll introduce them.
Operator seeing as there are no more questions in the queue that will conclude our earnings call for today.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002.
Thank you.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] At this time for opening remarks and introductions I’m turning the call over to Ms.
Stephanie Pope vice president of investor relations for the Boeing Company.
Ms.
Pope please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I am Stephanie Pope and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we may include in our discussions this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking disclaimers at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to this morning’s earnings release and to the presentations that accompany the webcast for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everybody.
Let me start today by addressing the business environment followed by some thoughts on our strong performance during the quarter and then a few word covering my view of where we are at this point on the battery issue with the 787.
After that Greg will walk you through our financial results and outlook including the new non-GAAP measures we’re introducing which we believe will provide more insight into our underlying business performance.
Turning now to slide two our view of the business environment remains positive overall given our record backlog and our customers’ continuing need for the efficient and value-creating products we provide.
Passenger traffic remains resilient despite limited global economic growth and airlines continue to replace older airplanes in favor of new ones that provide compelling economics and increased fuel efficiency.
We continue to monitor pressure in the air cargo market with the expectation that conditions will begin to stabilize this year.
In 2012 Boeing restored our market share leadership and commercial airplane deliveries was 601 delivered the most since 1999 and the second-most in commercial aviation history.
On continued strong demand for our new airplanes we also led the industry in net new orders with 1 203 the second highest total in our company’s history.
Orders for our new 737 MAX were especially strong last year and the program has surpassed 1 000 cumulative orders to date.
Our commercial backlog of nearly 4 400 airplanes totals a record $319 billion and reflects global customer preference for Boeing airplanes.
Nearly two-thirds of our order book is with customers outside the U.S.
and Europe a major shift as many of you know from past cycles.
In addition demand continues to be split roughly equally by worldwide fleet growth and a healthy replacement cycle.
Furthermore with ongoing volatility in fuel prices our customers continue to seek accelerated deliveries while requests for deferrals and cancellations remain below historical levels.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security while overall U.S.
defense budget pressures persist the United States nevertheless remains a substantial market for our products and services.
We also continue to capture extensive growth opportunities in international defense markets driven by increased regional security requirements and the modernization of aging platforms and systems.<br><br>In 2012 international customers for defense space and security represented 24% of revenue and grew to 41% of our current backlog.
While notable alone for its size the strength of our international defense backlog also comes from its diversity across our product and services portfolio and the wide geographic mix of its customer base.<br><br>We continue to see strong demand for our offerings particularly in the Middle East Brazil and the Asia Pacific region.
Our defense business also continues to maximize efficiencies and reduce infrastructure costs further enhancing our competitive position.<br><br>These aggressive affordability actions combined with our existing portfolio of proven reliable and affordable systems and services uniquely positions us among our competitors in this challenging budget environment.<br><br>And while the threat of budget sequestration creates added uncertainty unmanned systems C4ISR cyber security and international markets continue to offer a broad range of new opportunities.<br><br>As I mentioned last quarter we continue to focus at an enterprise level on our initiative to partner with suppliers to drive significant improvement in supply chain quality and flow and efficiency to increase productivity at lower product and services costs for customers.<br><br>Given the growth potential booked in our backlog and with pending new program decisions we are offering supplier partners who step up to the challenge a win-win opportunity to share in that growth and profit potential and earn work on future programs.<br><br>We are taking a team oriented one (Boeing) approach to examine opportunities up and down the supply chain in design production and support.
We are applying lessons learned on past programs sharing best practices and process expertise and where we find partners who can’t who won’t step up to these objectives we will recomplete the work or pull it back in-house if that’s what provides the most value to our customers.<br><br>We are pleased with the response from many of our partners at this early stage and the effort is already producing real savings.<br><br>Moving on the Slide 3 2012 was a year where we successfully achieved our plan for higher airplane production rates improved execution on new programs and continued strengthening and repositioning the defense business.<br><br>We reported strong revenue growth sustained solid operating margins and generated significant cash flow.
These achievements combined with the strength of our balance sheet enabled us to announce in December a dividend increase of 10% and the resumption of our share repurchase program this quarter.
We delivered 165 commercial airplanes in the fourth quarter for a total as I mentioned before of 601 deliveries in 2012 which compares with 477 in 2011.<br><br>For the quarter we delivered 23 787s reaching a total of 46 for the year.
On the 737 program we had record deliveries of 105 in the quarter and 415 for the year.<br><br>Revenue of commercial airplanes reached a record $49 billion with a healthy operating margin of 9.6% a meaningful accomplishment in the face of dilution from the 787 and 747-8 deliveries.<br><br>In 2012 we also successfully achieved five separate rate increases on our commercial airplane programs.
Other key accomplishments included delivering the 1000th 777 adding Boeing South Carolina to our commercial airplane production certificate and delivering the first three Charleston built 787s to Air India.<br><br>Our success in standing up Charleston to expand our production capacity and geographically diversify our capabilities will be a competitive advantage for us going forward.<br><br>We were also successful last year in more than doubling 787 production increasing the rate from two airplanes per month to five per month.
The program remains on track to further increase the final assembly build rate to seven per month in mid 2013 and 10 per month by late 2013 with a subsequent increase in delivery rates naturally following that achievement as we move into 2014.<br><br>Job one on the 787 however is supporting the investigations underway on the two battery incidents that occurred earlier this month.
But while we are limited by the rules of the investigation on what we can say publically let me assure you that’s not always comfortable for us.
Nonetheless we rigorously support the process because it gets to the right answers the right way and that is what has made air travel the safest form of transportation in the world.
We do believe good progress is being made in narrowing down the potential cause of the events.
We have assigned hundreds of experts from across Boeing brought in experts from outside and are working around the clock with the NTSB JTSB and the FAA to identify the problem and develop any corrective action that may be needed to get the airplanes safely back into the air and to resume deliveries to customers.
We deeply regret the impact this situation is having on our customers.
Nothing is more important to us than the safety of the flight crews and passengers who fly our airplanes.
We will get to the bottom of this and in so doing we will restore confidence in the 787 and Boeing.
I want to personally thank all the Boeing engineers scientists and other experts along with the various government agencies for their tireless efforts over the past few weeks.
As we work through these events it is important to reiterate that 787 production continues as planned and we remain confident in the future of the program and the integrity safety and performance of the airplane.
We look forward to returning the airplane into service and our customers are looking forward to that as well because of the compelling business case it represents for them.
They chose the 787 for its game-changing fuel efficiency its superior operating economics its unparalleled passenger experience and the lower noise and emissions it means for communities.
We’ve seen the airplane in service for 15 months and we know it delivers on those promises and I am confident it will continue to serve our customers well for decades to come.
Progress on the 787-9 continues as we near the end of the engineering and design phase.
Early-stage assembly is underway and final-stage assembly is still expected to begin in mid-2013.
As we’ve discussed and consistent with previous introductions of new minor models we have planned a period of longer production flow times across the extended supply chain for the first few 787-9 airplanes.
This will accommodate learning and ensure that we minimize disruption while still achieving our planned rate increases.
First customer delivery remains on schedule in early 2014.
The 747-8 is producing at two airplanes per month with 10 deliveries in the fourth quarter and 31 for the year.
Customer satisfaction with the airplane’s performance remains high as it has set a new industry standard for efficiency.
We remain focused on improving production processes and program profitability while closely monitoring the softness in the cargo market.
Our core commercial airplane production programs the 737 and the 777 continue to create tremendous value and growth.
The 737 production rate will increase to 38 per month in the second quarter of this year and then move up to 42 per month in the first half of 2014.
The 777 program successfully completed its increase in production rate to 8.3 per month.
The 737 MAX development is tracking to plan with firm configuration expected mid-year and entry into service in 2017.
Progress on our wide body development efforts continues along the disciplined gated process we’ve put in place based on lessons learned from the 787 and other past programs.
More specifically the case for the 787-10 airplane has strengthened based on our recent discussions with customers in anticipation of potential launch this year.
We are also making good progress assessing customer requirements for improvements in the market-leading 777 to ensure this signature twin-aisle franchise maintains its advantage over competing products for years to come.
We continue to strengthen and mature the business case.
However we have more work to do and that’s a big part of what we’ll be focused on in the months ahead.
Defense Space &amp; Security generated revenue of $8.3 billion in the fourth quarter delivering 34 aircraft and one satellite.
Despite the challenging environment revenues for the year increased 2% on 144 aircraft and 10 satellites delivered including significant increases in production of Apache and Chinook helicopters.
We captured several important awards during the quarter including a contract to upgrade 68 international F-15s a contract for work on the space launch system and a C-17 sustainment contract.
Among the many noteworthy program milestones achieved during the quarter were delivery of the first P8I to the Indian Navy initial production on the KC45 refueling boom completion of the preliminary design review for the space launch system core stage and delivery of the final design for (AEW&amp;C) winch tip.<br><br>In summary 2012 was a very strong year for Boeing with higher revenues and core earnings as well as outstanding cash generation.
We achieved significant milestones in both businesses continued to successful execute on production and development programs that are important to our customers and our team’s relentless attention to productivity enabled continued investment in our future Jim and good morning.
Before we review our financial results I’d like to take a few minutes to discuss the details of our new approach for providing enhanced visibility into our core operating performance of the company.
We can now move to Slide 4.<br><br>As we discussed during our third quarter call the continued decline in the pension discount rates driven by the unprecedented low interest rate environment has caused a significant non-cash increase in our pension expense which is unrelated to our underlying operating performance.<br><br>While we continue to focus on managing and reducing our overall pension liability in an effort to provide better transparency into the core operating results from our businesses going forward we have decided to introduce new non-GAAP measures.<br><br>Consistent with how other companies have addressed this these measures will exclude certain components of pension and post-retirement benefit expense that we believe are not reflective of the underlying business performance but are driven by financial market volatility.<br><br>We refer to these new measures as core operating earnings and core earnings per share.
Again consistent with how several other commercial companies have addressed pension expense the operating pension expense in our commercial airplane business will include both current and prior service costs related to pension benefits earned by our employees.<br><br>In our defense business we will continue to include pension costs determined under cost accounting standards which are allowable under government contracts.
Let’s look at the details on Slide 5.<br><br>You will see the walk from our GAAP earnings to our non-GAAP earnings measure for the fourth quarter and full-year results with again the difference being cost associated with market volatility and unrelated to our underlying operating performance.<br><br>Again we believe this enhanced reporting provides improved transparency into the core performance of our company.
With that said now let’s move to our full-year results on Slide 6.<br><br>Revenue for the year was $81.7 billion reflecting growth of 19% from last year driven by higher deliveries across commercial and defense businesses.
Core earnings per share for the year was $5.88 representing a 12% increase when we exclude the 2011 favorable tax settlement.<br><br>This increase was driven by continued strong operational performance from both of our businesses.<br><br>Operating cash flow was very strong at $9.1 billion before $1.6 billion in discretionary pension contributions made in the year.
The strong operating cash flow in 2012 was largely driven by the higher deliveries at both commercial airplanes and defense business strong defense orders in the year and effective working capital management across the business.<br><br>Moving now to our quarterly results on Slide 7 for the fourth quarter revenue increased 14% to $22.3 billion reflecting the robust growth in commercial airplane deliveries which more than offset the expected revenue in our defense business.<br><br>The company reported strong operational performance in the quarter with core operating earnings per share of $1.46 a 4% increase excluding the favorable $0.52 tax settlement in 2011.
Let’s discuss commercial airplanes now on Slide 8.<br><br>For the fourth quarter our commercial airplanes business reported revenue of $14.2 billion up 32% from the prior year and strong operating margins of 8.9% on deliveries of 165 airplanes.<br><br>Boeing commercial airplanes revenue for the year was a record $41.9 billion up 36% from last year driven by our successful execution on planned production rate increases which contributed to a total of 601 deliveries in 2012.
Operating performance from our 777 and 737 programs and our services business helped offset margin dilution from our planned increase in 787 fleet support for airplane deliveries to new customers and higher 787 and 747-8 deliveries.
This strong operating performance is a testament to the focus and determination of our teams as they continue to execute and drive productivity and profitability on our airplane programs.
Gross inventory for the company included $25.5 billion related to the 787 program an increase in the fourth quarter of approximately $700 million.
This is driven by the planned increase in production rates on the program partially offset by the increased deliveries.
Included in the work in process inventory are the deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the program was $15.9 billion at the end of the fourth quarter and includes approximately 46 airplanes still in process.
Commercial airplanes captured $26 billion of orders during the quarter and increased backlog to a record $319 billion.
Turning now to Defense Space &amp; Security results on slide nine our defense business generated $8.3 billion of revenue during the fourth quarter with strong operating margins of 9%.
For the full year Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported sales of $32.6 billion a 2% increase from the prior year driven largely by higher P-8 and Apache deliveries and growth in our service and support business.
International customers accounted for 24% of our defense revenue in 2012.
Aircraft deliveries increased to 34 in the quarter and were 144 for the full year.
Operating margins for the year were 9.4%.
Ongoing affordability efforts at our defense business further reduced our cost structure allowing the business to continue to be more competitive in this challenging environment.
Our focus on market-based affordability efforts will continue into 2013.
Boeing Military Aircraft revenue was $4.2 billion in the fourth quarter a 5% increase driven by higher volume on U.S.
Air Force Tanker and deliveries of P-8.
Operating margins of 8.1% was primarily driven by delivery mix.
Network Space Systems reported $1.9 billion in revenue.
Operating margins of 6.2% reflect lower earnings versus fourth quarter 2011 due to lower margin on our ground-based mid-course defense contract and favorable contract settlements on several satellite programs in 2011.
Global Services &amp; Support had fourth quarter revenues of $2.3 billion primarily driven by lower volume on the C-17 sustainment contract.
Operating margins improved in the quarter to 13.1% reflecting strong performance in integrated logistics.
Defense Space &amp; Security maintained a solid backlog of $71 billion reflecting more than two times current revenue.
International business remains very strong with approximately 41% of our current defense backlog representing sales to customers outside the United States.
If we could now turn to slide 10 Boeing Capital generated $116 million in revenue during the quarter.
The portfolio balance remains steady at $4.1 billion.
Unallocated expense for the core operations of $200 million was relatively stable compared to prior quarter.
Moving now to cash flow on slide 11 as I mentioned earlier we had very strong operating cash flow in 2012.
The $9.1 billion of operating cash generated by the businesses was driven by higher deliveries of both commercial and defense strong core operating performance in both the businesses and timing of international business captured at our defense business in 2012.
Moving now to cash and debt balances on slide 12 we ended the year with $13.5 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Debt levels were down during the quarter on scheduled debt maturities and as Jim indicated based on our strong liquidity continued cash management and increased confidence in our backlog and production plans in December we increased our dividend 10% and announced our plan to resume share repurchase in 2013.
We expect to spend about $1.5 billion to $2 billion on repurchases in 2013.
Moving now to slide 13 to discuss our outlook our guidance for 2013 again reflects solid core operating performance in our businesses higher volumes at commercial airplanes and the impact of the current DOD environment.
In addition our guidance assumes no significant financial impact resulting from the FAA directive on the 787 program.
If this assumption changes after we have gained greater fidelity we will let you know.<br><br>Revenue for 2013 is forecasted to increase between $82 billion and $85 billion largely reflecting again higher commercial airplane deliveries and continued challenging DOD environment.<br><br>Core EPS guidance is set to be between $6.10 and $6.30 a share representing approximately 5% growth driven by continued strong execution across our businesses.
We expect first quarter core EPS and cash flow to be the lowest during the year based on timing of deliveries and phasing of expenditures.<br><br>The 2013 commercial delivery forecast is between 635 and 645 airplanes.
This includes greater than 60 deliveries for the 787 which takes into account our planned increase in build rate and additional production flow time provided throughout our factory and across our supply chain that will minimize disruption as we introduce the new 787-9.<br><br>We’ve also forecasted fewer deliveries from our Everett Modification Center as we begin to work on earlier produced airplanes that require significantly more work than the change (in corp) airplanes we delivered in 2012.<br><br>Our commercial airplane revenue guidance is between $51 billion and $53 billion reflecting approximately 6% growth as we continue to execute on our record backlog.
We expect commercial airplane operating margins to be approximately 9.5% in 2013 resulting from higher deliveries and continued strong core operating performance while considering for some dilution on 87 and 747 deliveries and further investments in the future growth of our business.<br><br>Defense space and security revenue guidance for 2013 is between $30.5 billion and $31.5 billion reflecting healthy international growth that is offset by the continued challenging DOD environment.<br><br>Operating margin guidance in our defense business is forecasted to be greater than 9%.
This reflects continued strong performance and execution of our market-based affordability strategy which has already yielded over $2 billion in savings since 2010.<br><br>Turning to cash flow we expect operating cash flow before pension contributions to be greater than $8 billion reflecting again higher delivery volume and continued strong performance.<br><br>Our 2013 cash generation also reflects the timing impacts of receipts and expenditures that contributed to the strong results in fourth quarter 2012.<br><br>While required pension funding is minimal in 2013 we plan to make discretionary pension contributions of approximately $1.5 billion.<br><br>Overall 2012 performance continued to deliver strong operating results as we remained focused on program execution Greg.
2012 was a year of disciplined execution and delivering on our commitments to our customers and our shareholders.
For 2013 our first order of business obviously is getting the 787 back into service.<br><br>Our standing priorities for the year are to continue converting our record backlog into growth while delivering strong core operating performance and investing in our products technologies and people to sustain our growth and competitiveness for decades to come.<br><br>Our priorities going forward are clear: successful and profitable ramp up and production of our commercial airplane programs executing our commercial and defense development programs well driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise and continued strengthening and repositioning our defense business with investments in growth areas and further international expansion.<br><br>As we move a year closer to our centennial in 2016 I believe we have the products services people and technologies to enter our second century in aerospace a bigger better and stronger Boeing than we have ever been.
Now we’d be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator instructions.] And first we’ll go to Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
I know you can’t go into detail related to the recent battery incidents while the investigations are underway but if you think hypothetically if we were to see an extended delay in deliveries for say six months I’m interested in how you would think about the impact on your plans in two areas.
One what would make you consider reducing production rates for the 787 and then also how might this affect the availability of engineering resources for other programs such as the MAX and the 777-8X/9X? Well Doug you’ve presented a highly hypothetical situation that’s very difficult for me to comment on.
I can’t predict an outcome and I’m not going to.
We’re in the middle of an investigation.
We’re making progress in the investigation.
We have got every expert in the world looking at this issue.
We are working with the regulatory agencies productively and for me to predict an outcome or to sort of drive any kind of a hypothetical follow-on set of actions off a hypothetical is just not someplace I could go.
And so our plan as you know is to continue production of the 787 and to continue the development of the wide body airplanes we’ve told you about.
And we’re continuing to do that.
Well if you look at it just from the standpoint of engineering resources I’m assuming this is a priority effort.
It’s taking probably more resources than you would normally expend.
Is that impacting what you’re doing on the other programs on the other development efforts? No.
It isn’t.
This is a highly compartmentalized issue.
We have a deep supply chain with expertise and we have deep expertise within Boeing.
I mean we’re bringing people from all around Boeing to help look at this.
And because of the specialized nature of the technology and of the investigation it’s not drawing from any critical resources on any other growth programs we’ve got.
And we’ll go to Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Jim attempting not to ask you about the investigation since we know you can’t comment there but could you talk a little bit about the parallel paths that Boeing might be pursuing here ranging from perhaps a modest software or procedural solution against a battery replacement or a more complex electrical system change? And then Greg perhaps could you give us some sense on the numbers the relative probability of those various paths and cost that they would represent especially given the fact that the media has really highlighted or perhaps characterized a very high cost to this thing at this point.
And I’m wondering if you could clarify that.
Well I think my answer to Doug’s second question sort of puts a dimension around the drain on resources which is not significant.
Look I cannot talk about any of the specific paths of investigation but I can assure that there is a comprehensive root cause analysis and related series of technical efforts that I am confident will identify the root cause of these incidents.
And so confidence in the process confidence in the right resources confidence that it’s not distracting to the balance of Boeing and when we know the answer we’ll know the answer and we’ll act on it.
And again as much as it frustrates me it also frustrates you.
I really can’t comment on the specifics at this stage.
Well perhaps then I could ask this question which is somewhat unrelated.
But can you at least reconcile the 787 delivery plan of just more than 60 with your rate plan and your production numbers for the year since those should be different.
I know you touched on it earlier we think it’s six per month to stay on plan.
And understanding your layering in -9 Rob as Jim noted earlier we’re going to continue to produce obviously planning on making the rate bakes that are planned throughout this year.
And the differentiators doing the math are really two things.<br><br>One is the EMCs.
And as I talked about in my opening remarks we had fewer EMC deliveries in 2013 because these airplanes require more work than the ones in 2012 and it’s about 15% of about 60 that we expect for the full year.
That’s one element.<br><br>The second element of that as  you noted is the -9.
So as we bring the -9 into production just like every other derivative program we’ve had we have longer flows associated with that product as we come down the learning curve.<br><br>So that is happening throughout the year.
But at the end of the year I think Joe as you said there’s some pull forward there and we’ve been very actively managing our cash management process throughout the business both of the businesses.<br><br>And Q4 was a lot of that as well as as you know higher deliveries.
As we go into ’13 that discipline is going to continue with the ramp up in commercial and continued focus on cash generation so I think to your point when you pull the two years together you can see very strong cash flow.<br><br>Looking forward as I’ve talked about as you see us breaking rate and increasing our volume at commercial it’s not half bad considering what you saw in the fourth quarter and any pull forwards.<br><br>But that’s only tied to 60 aircraft roughly 60 deliveries of the 87 if you deliver more than 60 certainly in this case McDonald I think our assumption here is that we’re going to understand root cause side by side with the regulatory agencies.
That is the main series of efforts right now.
I don’t want to prejudge what form of service will be specifically acceptable to them.
That’s their call.
The two incidents are very different.
I think you could understand the magnitude of what happened then and the magnitude of the incident here.
But that doesn’t lead me to conclude or to pre-judge what is exactly going to happen.
I think we all want to understand root cause here and that’s what we’re focused on.
Thank you.
And second question if I look at your guidance you’re basically saying you’re going to deliver nine planes out of EMC and I believe you said you had 46 in process of which I would assume 35 or 40 are EMC because you’re building at five a month? Why don’t we get more planes out of EMC? Or is it going to take until 2015 or 2016 until all these early 787s get delivered? As I said earlier the planes that are expected to deliver this year do have significantly more work than the 2012 airplanes we delivered so that’s why there’s this longer flow.
So we’re not able to deliver 32 like we did in 2012.
Looking forward as I’ve said before right now the plan is to have them complete by 2015 all airplanes out of EMC.
We’re certainly working to pull that to the left as much as we can but that’s the current plan that we have in front of us.
But how does it square? If you’ve got 35 or 40 planes to go the only way those numbers work is if you increase deliveries.
We don’t have 35-40 airplanes to go.
That’s where I think we’re seeing a difference there.
Okay.
Well I mean if you have 46 in process what is left to go of EMC? 46 is work in process throughout the factory.
And we’ll go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Maybe changing gears a little bit because it seems like you can’t say too much about the ongoing investigation but jumping on to other product development so maybe one big question but how’s it going with the 737 MAX? What should we think about 787-10 when that might happen? You alluded to maybe the second half of the year? And then three and most importantly the 777-X or whatever you want to call it I guess one timing on that given A350 seems to have gotten some orders and two - and this is a question that I think Jim we brought up when we visited in Chicago - is it’s a 20-year-old airplane.
So how do you incrementally evolve a 20-year-old airplane as opposed to 787-10 which is a clearer derivative of existing new technology? I’ll try and get all that.
The MAX development is going very well.
I think we are hitting all benchmarks at or slightly in advance of schedule.
Our engine partner Snecma and GE [unintelligible] are hitting their benchmarks so our confidence is growing every day that we will deliver that airplane not only on time but at the performance and productivity levels at least that we’ve promised.
So we’re feeling very good about that.
I think the -10 as you know we have been conditionally offering the airplane in the marketplace and the response has been very strong.
And so that is less of a technical challenge in the sense of there’s not as much technical scope to that airplane so our confidence is growing daily that that airplane is going to be a winner at a price and value equation that makes sense for both Boeing and their customers.
So I don’t want to prejudge when we might reach a final launch decision but good progress toward that.
Very good progress toward that.
777-X it is 20 years old.
Hard to believe.
But we are focused on a technical solution that offers significant performance advantages to an already market-leading airplane.
I think it’s been widely discussed that the most likely design is some increased capacity and a composite wing with new engines and some other additional work that is not too large in scope.<br><br>But the – that airplane has eye watering kinds of performance associated with it.
We’re just trying to put final touches on – final touches.
We’re trying to get the business plan to where we need it to be and then we will conditionally offer it to customers.<br><br>And we’re getting close to that situation so as you march down those three developments moving in every real way that you can think of toward a successful launch on the max just the same question how do you think about – I mean a new composite wing on a wide body airplane the implication being that it is a significant development reengineering this will be – you are correct.
This as derivatives go will be a significant amount of work.
The confidence that we’ve got – this will be the third depending how you count the third or fourth generation composite air foil we’ve build so our confidence is growing that we know what we’re doing with a composite wing and this will be one heck of a composite wing.<br><br>You’re right.
It’s at a scale that’s different than what we’ve done before what will we outwardly see as these longer flows come through for the nine during the year?  I’m just trying to get my arms around the cadence of deliveries relative to your prior comments.<br><br>And then also I wanted to ask Greg about pension since you’ve got the introduction of this core EPS which calls this out as this non-operational and related to financial markets.<br><br>Despite the fact that discount rates are obviously at unprecedented low levels and required funding is low in the near term you’ve still got a very sizeable liability to address there.
So I wondered if you might tell me how you guys are thinking about addressing it long term and also with the introduction of this core operating earnings metric Carter so it’s not I wouldn’t say lumpy.
It gets feathered in throughout the year primarily really through second quarter to fourth quarter.<br><br>And like I said earlier this is very similar to 777 as an example when we introduced derivative models and we put that additional flow in there so it’s a good comparison to how we performed prior with some improvements in there.<br><br>So as we come down that learning curve we’ll reduce the flow time on those units in production as the supply chain has and then we’ll get again to the full rate of 10 per month by the end of the year.<br><br>So we’ve got a I think very good plan in place based on facts and data of how we’ve performed prior along with some productivity improvements and I should also note a lot of the supply chain is already at seven a month has -9 components in their factories and is making good progress there.<br><br>With regards to liabilities it continues to be a primary focus for us.
As you’ve seen we’ve taken action in various areas in particular around our investment strategy and revised that a number of years ago that match our liability much better and I think that’s proven well for us.
On the benefit side salaried individuals as you know in 2009 went from new hires from a DB to a DC.
So we’re continuing to make progress in that area but this measure by no means takes focus off of the liability.
And next we’ll go to Samuel J.
Pearlstein with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
If I could change gears from the 87 to just the 47 if I just look at that it seems like for a wide body airplane it’s going to take a lot longer in terms of configuration.
I’m wondering do you need to make a decision soon about 2014 rates given a backlog of 67 airplanes? How do you sustain that at two per month? Well the pipeline is pretty good.
We are mindful that there is softness in the cargo market.
So we are getting volume the old fashioned way on this program right now which is finding customers working with them.
We’re very fortunate that the economics of this airplane particularly in the cargo market are very very compelling.
So notwithstanding a difficult market situation as we sit here today we have confidence that we’re going to be able to hold rate.
But we’re going to be taking a look at it every quarter.
But right now we have a good pipeline of folks that we’re working with that gives us confidence that we can hold rate.
When that changes we’ll discuss it.
And actually just on a follow up if you can help in terms of the increase in the deferred production on a per-unit basis where it moved back up.
Is that all -9 related and if we took out the -9 would we have continued to see that path down on the -8s? Yeah you would have.
It’s predominantly -9 and then increased rates as I said some of the supply chain actually broke rate earlier than planned.
But primarily -9.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will be from Howard Rubel with Jeffries.
Please go ahead.
I want to go back to talk just for a moment about production efficiencies on the 78.
Jim what are you seeing and could you talk about quality and final delivery and some of the other metrics that you’ve posted us on before? And also while you’re at it prior to this event can you talk a little bit about what the operating performance of the airplane has been in terms of reliability and sort of fuel burn and some of the other efficiency measures? Yeah I think the quick answer would be every operating metric that I think you would be contemplating with your question - quality metric jobs behind schedule open jobs [travel to] work those kinds of things that are indirect measures of quality and delivery - are all improving significantly and at the rate that we anticipated in our learning curve.
So we’re feeling very good about that.
A subset of that would be Charleston.
Charleston I would say ahead of most of the metrics that we’d planned on down there and a terrific job by the team of standing that up.
I think in terms of in-service the second part of your question the in-service numbers as reported by our customers which is the acid test have been at or better than we had promised them.
I think the in-service whether it’s fuel efficiency or whether it’s range or whether it’s the kind of cabin experience that we wanted them to be able to provide to their customers early dispatch reliability were all sort of on par with either experience we’d had introducing new airplanes.
And in the case of dispatch reliability or as we’d promised in terms of fuel burn and we haven’t fully gone through the whole maintenance equation so it’s tough predict that.
And they’re the ones to ask.
Most customers would say that the experience has been as promised.
Now we’re working the battery issue.
that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I’ll now return you to the Boeing company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporation Communication.
Mr.
Downey please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we’re ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question aside from the recent events every type of battery including these batteries.<br><br>What we do know is that the replacement cycle that we’ve been experiencing there has been for maintenance reasons.
There’s been no incident that we’re aware of where a battery’s been replaced due to any kind of safety concerns you said no impact from the work on the 787 on other programs.
But I’m wondering what impact on the investigation the broader FAA review and finding a solution would come if there was a strike by (SPEA) engineers it’s a very hypothetical situation.
I don’t – we’re all very hopeful that our discussions with (SPEA) will not come to that.<br><br>But I think we’re going to have enough experts available to keep looking at this issue if it goes that far because there is a two or three-week cycle time now where – and we could be discussing far longer things beyond that with (SPEA) so it’s a very real airplane at this point.
What provisions do you guys have if any again Jon we can’t – we don’t want to – it doesn’t make much sense for us to speculate on the battery and its impact on anything because we’re working through it right now and we’re making progress.
And when we learn something we’ll be working with the regulatory agencies to implement anything fixes we obviously have some bugger in our planning.
I think for example the -9 is a plan that has a lot of unique parts when compared to the -8 which is why you do want to build a little buffer you do want to give the people on the lines some experience with assembling the airplane in a slightly different way with different parts and different ways to fasten things together and so that’s generally part of our planning.
And so it anticipates some of that and some of that obviously does happen.
And we think we’ve got it in hand.
And how do you think about that for the -8? How do you think about that same challenge for the -8 which is already dominating the overwhelming production of units coming through the factory? Are you talking about the robustness of the supply chain? The plane’s largely designed.
And it’s flowing.
So we’re beyond the place in general where a major redesign is going to cause disruptions in the supply chain.
I think it tends to be more of an issue during the development phase of an airplane.
And next we’ll go to Phil Lebeau with CNBC.
Please go ahead.
Is there any consideration of ditching the lithium ion battery in terms of using it in the Dreamliner? Or are you committed to sticking with the lithium ion batteries? Nothing we’ve learned has told us yet that we have made the wrong choice on the battery technology.
We feel good about the battery technology and its fit for the airplane.
We’ve just got to get to the root cause of these incidents and we’ll take a look at the data as it unfolds.
But there’s nothing we’ve learned that causes us to question that decision at this stage.
And we’ll go to Dominic Gates with the Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
I’ve got a question about the supply chain and I’d like to focus on the electrical system.
Not on the battery but on the entire electrical system.
You mentioned earlier your initiative to squeeze out costs throughout the supply chain.
And I want to ask first of all does that put a lot of pressure on your suppliers? Does it worry you that costs will be cut and quality might suffer? And also how does your supplier management organization keep tabs specifically on all the electrical system components when your suppliers have such autonomy and have so many far-flung subcontractors? I’ll try to get to all elements of your question here.
We have done a lot to increase the visibility down through our supply chain of their bill of materials as they’re working it.
And we’ve made significant progress there.
So we tend to have far better knowledge when bottlenecks are coming when there are supply and quality issues and so I have confidence we’re making progress there.
What was the first part of your question? Whether the initiative to squeeze out costs may have consequences for quality.
Yeah.
Listen I can understand where that question comes from.
I see it just the opposite quite frankly.
My view is we want to work more efficiently with suppliers reduce cycle time which generally increases quality in almost every case I’ve been involved in share business processes as opposed to throwing things across fences to each other.
And so it is not a cost-squeeze initiative.
It is an improve process initiative and costs will come out of it.
And the people that are willing to make that investment in process improvement are the ones we want to do business with.
And so the objective is to increase quality through improved process and as a result reduce cost.
That’s the objective.
A follow up on your first answer.
For example obviously after the incidents with the battery people have gone into the factory in Japan the Yuasa factory to look at their quality control.
But before all this happened before the two incidents that have grounded the airplanes how much had Boeing people in your supplier organization gone into Yuasa? Or was that left to [unintelligible]? We have no idea yet even though we’re making good progress and we’re narrowing down the things that could have gone wrong.
We don’t have root cause yet.
So it’s very hard to speculate on anybody anybody’s role in these incidents.
As to our quality flow-down through our supply chain we have very robust processes that do that.
And if we miss something along the way we’re going to fix it.
But we do of course we’re telling them number one you’re doing a hell of a job and number two I think we had some targets in terms of how long it would take to assemble the first airplane the quality metrics associated along the way the traveled work that either happened or didn’t happen the amount of work that traveled out to the flight line the amount of time it took to do test flights to get the planes in the hands of our customers.<br><br>And by and large for member of the media if you have further questions please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management’s discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer session are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I’m turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's first quarter 2013 earnings call.
I’m Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
And as a reminder you can follow today's broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any discussions and goals this morning are likely to involve risks which are detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to the earnings release and presentations for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Troy and good morning everybody.
Let me begin today with an update on the 787s return to flight followed by an overview of our business environment and some thoughts on yet another strong quarter of operating performance.
After that Greg will walk you through our financial results and outlook.
As you may recall in January I described returning the 787 to service as our first order of business.
Nothing is more important than the safety of the crews and passengers who fly our airplanes and nothing rallies our team more than the challenge of resolving issues that affect our customer’s ability to operate those airplanes as intended.
Over these many weeks hundreds of experts from across Boeing our supplier partners and other outside organizations work day and night along side U.S.
and Japanese authorities to identify the factors that could have caused the 787 batteries to fail and then to design develop and test a comprehensive permanent fix.
Last Friday the Federal Aviation Administration formally approved our proposed solution after carefully examining results of a rigorous month-long certification test program.
In short our battery system improvements include multiple layers of protection to prevent and isolate potential faults along with the new enclosure designed to keep any battery event from affecting the airplane or even being noticed by passengers.
After more than 200 000 hours of engineering work validation by a non-advocate team of more than a dozen leading battery experts and now with a certification by the FAA the 787 will return to flight with our continued high confidence in its safety reliability and overall integrity.
Immediately upon receiving the FAA’s approval last week we began the process of installing the improved battery system on the in service fleet while also implementing the changes on new airplanes being readied for delivery in Everett and Charleston.
Thus far we have started installation on 10 fleet aircraft and 9 production airplanes.
We expect to complete the bulk of fleet retrofits by mid-May.
Production test flights began last week and deliveries are expected to resume in early May.
And despite the three-month delivery suspension our forecast remains to deliver greater than 60 787s during 2013.
On behalf of everyone at Boeing I would like to thank our supplier partners our outside battery experts the FAA NTSB JTSB and JCAB for their determined professionalism throughout this journey.
We would also like to thank our customers and their passengers for enduring this disruption and inconvenience caused by this issue.
While disappointing and frustrating from the outset the silver lining in this experience has been seeing all parties in this process working to ensure that air travel remains the safest form of transportation the world has ever known.
Furthermore the value proposition of the 787 and its game changing economics fuel efficiency lower noise and emissions and unmatched passenger comfort has emerged fully intact and we look forward to reconnecting airlines and their passengers to the 787’s remarkable benefits in the coming days and weeks.
As many of you know in the 15 months of service prior to the major issue with the battery initial dispatch reliability on the 787 was at par or better than the benchmark 777.
We fully expect that trend to continue as we return the airplane to service.
Our nearly 97 years of experience introducing new airplanes also conditions us to expect additional more normal shall we say start up issues as more airplanes enter the fleet with more carriers in the months ahead.
Our approach will be to find them address them and ultimately ensure the 787 like every Boeing airplane before it achieves the very high level standard for performance and reliability we promise customers at the outset of the program.
With that let's turn to the business environment on slide two.
Global customer demand for our fuel efficient and value creating commercial airplane family remain strong.
A factory reinforced by a healthy first quarter net new orders total of 209 airplanes which increased our record commercial airplane backlog to more than 4 400 airplanes worth $324 billion.
Our customers continue to replace older airplanes in favor of new ones that offer compelling economics and increased fuel efficiency.
Request to accelerate deliveries also continue at a healthy pace.
Passenger traffic trends remain healthy.
However we continue to see near-term pressure in the cargo market.
Softness in this segment contributed to the decision announced last week to adjust the 747 program build rate down to 1.75 airplanes a month from two a month beginning in early 2014.
While we booked three 747 airplane orders in the quarter and received commitments for two more the rate decision was made to more closely aligned production to near-term demand overall.
As the only provider of very large freighters we believe our fuel efficient 747-8 is well positioned to benefit our customers once cargo market conditions improve.
Airline interest in our fuel efficient 737 MAX remains significant as we now have booked almost 12 000 cumulative orders to-date.
787 backlog was further extended by 42 orders during the quarter in addition to a commitment by British Airways to exercise 18 options.
We also received a commitment from Ryanair to order 175 737NGs.
As a result we now effectively have bridge production from the NG to the MAX allowing us to smoothly transition our production system later this decade.
Overall aircraft demand remains relatively balanced geographically and our backlog remains evenly split between airplanes used to support traffic growth and fleet replacement.
We remain focused on balancing production schedules with this strong demand in order to minimize long-term volatility and build rates and maximize productivity and profitability.
Turning to defense space and security during the quarter we saw Congress and the administration act to avoid indiscriminate across the board budget sequestration cuts in fiscal year ’13 by passing a continuing resolution that permits the defense department to more selectively allocate spending and approve multi-year contracts for programs such as in Boeing’s case the Chinook and V-22.
We believe this flexibility advantages our portfolio of reliable proven and affordable systems that are on budget and on schedule.
However we remain cautious regarding the potential for further U.S.
defense budget reductions and the mid to long-term impact of continued sequestration.
In the President’s fiscal year ’14 budget submission we noted strong support for the majority of our core programs.
Despite budget reductions at the top line level growth is still expected in areas we have been targeting with investment and attention such as space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance and cyber security.
With our expanded product offering and commercial satellites we expect to pursue and capture growth in this market due to the compelling value our smaller satellites provide to global customers.
Last week’s major win for the AH-64 Apache in the Republic of Korea is the latest in the series of key international competition results that reflect the alignment between our portfolio of products and services and international customer requirements in the current business environment.
International defense space and security business represented 28% of revenue during the quarter and grew to 42% of our current backlog as we continue to expand our share in addressable international markets.
To enhance our competitive position in the defense market achieving our market based affordability targets that maximize efficiencies and reduce infrastructure costs is a daily focus of defense space and security business and its multi-year effort to further strengthen its competitive position in U.S.
and international defense markets.
That effort is also benefiting from productivity gains and cost savings achieved through our enterprise partnering for success initiative that we launched last fall with our major supply chain partners.
Partnering for success as you may recall takes a team oriented approach to examine opportunities across the supply chain and design production and support to drive significant improvements in quality flow and efficiency that will increase productivity and lower cost for customers.
It’s a win-win for us and our suppliers in step up for the challenge and secure future growth in so doing by increasing customer value today.
During the quarter we also succeeded in averting a work stoppages through successful negotiations of a new four-year contract with our engineering and technical worker’s union in Puget Sound who support our commercial airplanes and defense programs in the region.
This agreement also helps mitigate our future pension liabilities by including a define contribution plan for all new hires.
Moving on to slide three.
Our business and core functions performed extremely well during the quarter as we reported strong revenue expanded operating margins and solid operating cash flow.
Revenue at commercial airplanes was $10.7 billion and operating margin grew to 11.4% resulting from solid program execution and lower margin dilution from fewer 787 deliveries than originally planned.
As an example of our continued efforts to improve productivity and efficiencies we announced the consolidation of our North American flight training operation into our existing Miami facility.
We are also reducing our infrastructure primarily on the 787 as we capture efficiencies and production stabilizes.
We delivered 137 commercial airplanes and successfully executed multiple plan production increases including increasing the 777 rate to a record 8.3 airplanes per month and raising the 737 to a record 38 airplanes per month the next increase to 42 per month coming in the second quarter of 2014.
We also initiated the rate break to 7 per month as planned in 787 final assembly.
Production health on the 787 continues to improve and we remain on track to increase the rate to 10 per month by year end.
On our commercial airplane development programs we have effectively completed engineering work on the 787-9.
The first airplane is expected to enter final assembly in Everett at mid-year followed by first flight in the second half of this year and first delivery in the early part of next year.
The 737 MAX development also remains on track with firm configuration expected mid-year and entry into service as planned in 2017.
On our twin-aisle line-up with the 787-10X and 777X we continue to progress through our disciplined gated development process focusing on affordability and discussing with customers their requirements and the technology they value.
These are very attractive investments that leverage prior lessons learned and previous technology development efforts all of which will increase shareholder value.
The business case continues to strengthen for the 787-10 and the customer interest in the airplane is high due to its compelling price and value equation for both us and our customers.
We continued to anticipate the potential launch of the 787-10 this year.
Likewise the business case for the 777X also continues to mature as we further evaluate options including design and production locations.
During the quarter we selected GE as the soul source engine manufacturer for the 777X program new engines and an all new composite wing that leverages the design and technologies of the 787 wing along with other meaningful improvements will make this airplane immensely competitive and ensure our 777 franchise remains the standard bearer in its class for years to come.
We continue to target entry into service for the 777X around the end of the decade.
Turning to the defense business defense space and security generated revenue of $8.1 billion in the first quarter delivering 44 aircraft and 1 satellite.
Higher deliveries on Apache C-17 and P-8 along with growth in satellite volume contributed the healthy revenue in the quarter.
Numerous important awards were captured during the quarter including contract at our small satellite business as well as a contract for the integrated C4ISR targeting system that provides the Air Force intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities and targeting in one easy to use light weight handheld device.
Noteworthy milestones achieved during the quarter included the second successful test flight of the unmanned Phantom Eye delivery of the first Indian Air Force C-17 to flight test and completion of flight testing for the India P-8I airplane.
We also delivered six P-8A to the U.S.
Navy which completes the first run of low rate initial production.
In summary notwithstanding 787 deliveries deferred while we work through the battery issue operationally we are off to a very strong start across the board for 2013 with solid revenues earnings and cash generation.
Our teams remain laser focused on continuing successful execution of the ongoing production and development programs that are important to our customers and are delivering value to our shareholders.
Now I’ll turn it over to Greg to discuss our financial results and our guidance.
Greg? Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let’s turn to slide four and we’ll discuss the results for the quarter.
First quarter revenue was $18.9 billion driven by strong deliveries at both commercial airplanes and our defense business.
Strong core operating margins of 9.9% in the quarter were primarily driven by solid productivity gains at both businesses and improved mix.
Core earnings per share increased 24% to $1.73 a share in the quarter on continued strong operating performance in both commercial airplane and the defense business.
As anticipated first quarter EPS include $0.19 from the 2012 research and development tax credit that was passed into law earlier this year.
First quarter EPS last year including $0.11 from a favorable court adjust on a satellite litigation.
Now let’s discuss Commercial Airplanes on Slide 5.
For the first quarter our Commercial Airplanes business reported revenue of $10.7 billion on a 137 airplane deliveries and strong operating margins of 11.4%.
Commercial Airplanes operating margin benefitted from delivery mix in the quarter lower R&amp;D and improved performance that was partially offset by higher period costs primarily associated with the engineering and retrofit activities on the 787 battery.
The strong core operating performance in the quarter was a testament for our continued focus on efficiently executing our rate increases and driving productivity.
Gross inventory for the company included $28.8 billion related to the 787 program an increase in the first quarter of approximately $3.3 billion driven by the planned increase in production rate on the program and fewer 787 deliveries in the quarter.
Included in the work in process inventory are deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the program was $17.1 billion at the end of the first quarter and includes approximately 61 airplanes still in process.
The deferred production balance is still expected to peak at slightly over $20 billion and then decline after the program achieves the planned rate of 10 per month and stabilizes at that level.
Commercial airplanes captured $15 billion of orders during the quarter and increased backlog to a record 324 billion for over 4 445 airplanes.
Customer demand for a game changing fuel-efficient airplanes remain strong as illustrated by an additional 121 737 MAX orders and 42 787 orders in the quarter.
Let’s turn now to our Defense Space and Security results on Slide 6.
First quarter revenue for our Defense business was $8.1 billion and operating margins grew to a strong 10.3% driven by improved mix and performance.
International customers accounted for 28% of our defense revenue in the first quarter and we continue to drive towards our goal of 30% of revenue going forward.
Focus on affordability continues as we remain committed to driving our market-based affordability efforts and are on track to further lowering our cost structure in an efforts to increase our productivity and strengthen our competitive position in this challenging environment.
Revenue at Boeing Military Aircraft was $4.1 billion in the first quarter as higher deliveries on Apache C-17 and P-8A was offset by lower F-15 volume.
Operating margin of 10.5% was primarily driven by improved performance and delivery mix.
Network and Space Systems revenue of $2 billion increased 5% primarily driven by improved commercial satellites volume.
Operating margin was 8% in the quarter on favorable delivery mix.
Global Services &amp; Support had first quarter revenue of $2 billion resulting from lower volume on various logistics contracts.
GS&amp;S had healthy operating margins of 12.1% primarily driven by improved performance at our maintenance modification and upgrades business.
Defense Space and Security had solid backlog of $68 billion.
International business remains very strong with 42% of our current backlog representing customers outside the United States.
Turning now to Slide 7 the BCC net financing portfolio declined to $4.2 billion on normal run-off and that exceeded new aircraft volume.
Unallocated expense from core operations was $170 million and was higher due to a favorable court judgment on a satellite litigation recorded in the same period last year.
Now turning to cash flow on Slide 8 both our Commercial and Defense business did an outstanding job on focusing on cash in the quarter.
Despite fewer 787 deliveries first quarter operating cash flow was a solid $524 million.
Moving now to cash and debt balances on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with nearly $12 billion to cash and marketable security and timing of the 787 events limited our ability to repurchase shares in the first quarter however we expect to begin our repurchase plan in the second quarter and remain committed to our $1.5 billion to $2 billion of share repurchase planned for 2013.
Turning now to Slide 10 to discuss our outlook for 2013; we are reaffirming our guidance for 2013.
We still expect 787 deliveries to be greater than 60 this year with second quarter deliveries for approximately 15% to 20% of our full-year deliveries.
Total Commercial Airplanes deliveries are still expected to be between 635 and 645 for the year.
Revenue guidance for 2013 remains at between $82 billion and $85 billion larger reflecting higher Commercial Airplane deliveries and continued challenging defense environment.
Core earnings per share guidance has unchanged at between $6.10 and $6.30 a share representing approximately 5% growth driven by continued strong execution across both businesses.
Operating cash flow guidance before pension contributions remains at greater than $8 billion reflecting higher delivery volume and again continued strong performance.
So overall performance was strong for the quarter as we further improve productivity of both businesses successfully increased our plan production rates and efficiently and effectively manage cash.
We expect this strong operational performance to continue throughout the balance of 2013.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jr.</strong>  Thanks Greg.
With a strong first quarter behind us and implementation of the 787 battery solution well underway we remain committed for the goals we initially set for 2013.
That includes continued conversion of our record backlog into deliveries while generating strong core operating performance that allows us to return cash to shareholders while investing wisely in our products technologies and people to sustain our growth and competitiveness.
Our priorities going forward remain clear.
The profitable ramp up of production on our commercial airplane programs executing on our commercial and defense development programs driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen and reposition our defense business with investments in growth areas amid further international expansion and importantly returning increasing value to both our customers and shareholders.
Now with that thought we’d be glad and happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen thank you.
Good morning Howard.
Your operating margins were helped to some degree by the absence of 78.
On the other hand pre-RND margins on commercial were up year-on-year.
And Defense business was also very strong.
could you address Jim maybe a little bit further from your commentary what sort of goals you’re setting for your operating units so that you can see this ongoing improvement? Jr.</strong> Well Howard first of all productivity and affordability is fundamental to everything we do whether it’s running a factory whether it’s running a back room or whether it’s designing and building airplanes.
So that is a – that has been a main theme that is beginning to pay off has paid off and we will not led upon even though we’re beginning to grow significantly led by our commercial business.
So productivity is foundational.
now growth is also a piece of the margin expansion equation.
We’ve taken up rates on 777 and 73 you’re going to begin to see the rate which is on schedule and we have confidence in that schedule and 87 begin to increase a couple of multiyears have been nailed down in our defense business which also gives us opportunity to use volume to help drive margin expansion.
I also think the other comment I’d make is that we’re entering in a year now where our R&amp;D is being used more efficiently.
And I think that will not stop this quarter.
And so notwithstanding some development programs out ahead of us I think you may see more efficient use of research and development costs over the next period of time.
So that would be my answer there.
Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome Howard.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Sam.
I was wondering if I could follow-up on what you just mentioned which was R&amp;D because you did come in relatively low in spending in R&amp;D and given that year-over-year decline in commercial R&amp;D how do you get to the $3.4 billion this year is it driven by the potential launch of 777X and/or 787-10 to drive that pickup over the course of the year? How should we think about it? Jr.</strong> Yeah I would think the thought here would be and I would include the MAX in what you’ve just said there in terms of some ongoing development efforts.
I think look I mean if you step back for a second and look at this decade compared to the last one we have the opportunity to harvest some hard-fought games in our Commercial Airplanes business.
And we all remember the times of fighting through the 87 development where the technologies weren’t quite as matures we hope they’d be at certain point in time we had to spend a lot of money.
The 47-8 cost us a little bit more than we assumed it would.
And we spend a lot of money in research and development.
Now this decade this team is committed to harvesting some of the learning from that decade and also harvesting some of the technology maturation that was hard-fought and we now have in hand.
So I think when you look at 777X you look at a 10X or you look at a MAX these are derivative programs that tend to leverage more efficiently what we know there is not a lot of invention going on.
There is a lot of creative application and use of a technological lead that we have and that leads to and I know this is a broader answer that maybe you are looking for but that leads to confidence that more restrained levels of R&amp;D can continue for longer periods of time.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Good morning.
Jim you’ve highlighted that the demand environment remains very strong and then customers are looking to accelerate delivery.
But given how many planes you now have in the backlog? What real capacity or flexibility do you have to further raise rates beyond what you currently committed to? Jr.</strong> Well I think that there is – demand is strong.
And in fact to be honest the first piece of 2012 surprised us a little bit it is sort of above trend I think it’s between 5% and 6% on an industry level.
So demand on the passenger side looks strong.
We do have confidence in the ongoing trend line sort of between 4% and 5%.
But I think we have been ramping up production.
There is more to go on the 737 I think we’ve given you visibility on that beyond the 38 that we just broke two.
Could there be more beyond the 42? We’ll have to wait and see but there is strong demand for narrow-body airplanes in the world today.
I think the – getting to 10 a month as all of you have mentioned to me is not a free throw on the 87.
We have strong confidence levels that we are going to get there on the timing that we’ve suggested to you.
Is there demand beyond that? There are many I think there is but we’ll go through the disciplined process.
So I think the middle of the wide-body which would expand the 87 up to the 777 there’s more room to run there and we’ll adjust our rates as we see it and narrow-body.
So I don’t think it’s over yet.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning guys and good quarter.
Good morning Carter.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Carter.
Inc.</strong> Greg I wondered if I could ask you to expand on a couple of accounting points since you know I can’t help myself.
I understand.
Inc.</strong> On the program versus unit you guys were about $900 million in the quarter but there was only one 787 delivery.
So I wondered if…  Yeah.
Inc.</strong> First you could expand on that? And then secondly on the deferred production per unit it looks like you tick down pretty nicely there to around $70 million a unit.
I know you went through the 100 unit in the quarter and you had said that there was a good step down in cost there.
So I’m not sure if you can comment within those units if you saw even further progress from the beginning to the end but any color you can provide that would helpful.
Yeah sure.
Well on the unit versus program most of that is driven by 47 and then that one airplane on the 87 is our second delivery out of Charleston which as you know we had as planned longer flow and learning applied to that airplane.
But as I’ve said in the past looking at it from a unit versus program it’s going to become more challenging because of the mix of differentiation in the line-up of airplanes that were manufactured earlier coming out of BMC and airplanes coming off the line now to add into that you’ve got the -9.
So you’re right I would focus more now on the deferred production growth.
And we are seeing improvements there on a unit basis and I think that’s a good representation of what you’re seeing in the factories.
Right now we’re looking at about a 60% on a unit basis from kind of the first airplane line 8 to about line 100.
So we’re just continuing to see good progress there.
We’re seeing that both at Charleston and in Everett and when you kind of step back and look at kind of the key operational metrics that essentially are going to drive the financials we’re seeing on the 87 right now shortages are at record low travel work coming in is essentially at zero.
So it’s really giving us the opportunity to stabilize the final production line and have it running as it was planned and I think we’re starting to see the benefits of that.
We are also focused on product – on the overall productivity and support ratios and you’re seeing declines in employment around there as planned as we kind of increase our production.
So overall operationally you’re seeing improved results and that’s translating into the growth in deferred production.
But again I would tell you from outside in I’ll tell you to continue to focus on the deferred production growth and our production rates around that.
Inc.</strong> So the 60% was the total cost or the deferred production per plane? Total cost.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Joe.
You had a pretty strong result I thought in cash flow considering that you couldn’t ship for most of the quarter on the 787 and you’ve – we’ve got some benefits in the advances category and I guess mitigated the inventory build a little more than I thought.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah.
I just was wondering if you look forward Greg to the rest of the year how you’re feeling about that guidance? Is there upside there and whether items here big items that are going to reverse or help us out with the profile there a little bit the rest of the year? Yeah I mean look I’ll tell you first quarter was a combination of timing and improved performance.
We certainly were very active in managing our cash in the first quarter and we’re able to pull in some advances that were frankly timed in the early second quarter.
But day-to-day very disciplined approach to cash management.
I am feeling comfortable and feeling good about full year guidance and obviously the profile on cash from now going forward will really be hinged on the ramp up primarily around commercial airplane deliveries in particular on the 87.
And you didn’t dig into the share repurchase plan in the first quarter? Right.
Why exactly in the 787? Well just because of everything that was going on around the 787 and the battery we refrained from doing any repurchase and as I mentioned we’re going to get back in here on the second quarter and we’re still committed to the $1.5 billion to $2 billion for the full year.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Jr.</strong> Hey Doug Good morning Doug I wanted to follow-up on the 787 discussion from before and based on the deferred production numbers it does look like your costs are coming down substantially.
Could you comment on the trajectory going forward both in terms of roughly when you might expect to reach break even on a unit basis and then also what do you expect to happen when the -9 comes in? Should we expect may perhaps a bump back up for a little while? Yeah I mean we’re certainly – we’re planning on continuing to reduce the unit cost on the airplane going forward and we’ve got good productivity plans in place for ourselves within the supply chain and we’re assuming that we execute to those.
I think as the -9 certainly if you look at it as Carter was indicating on a unit versus program you’re going to see disruption there.
But again I think the deferred production growth is the best way to look at it.
As far as the break even goes as I said we’re going to peak at just over $20 billion once we hit $10 billion and stabilize and that’s when we’ll turn the corner on a unit basis but Doug very focused on this.
Obviously every element of cost whether it’s in our factories or within the supply chain remains a big priority for us to continue to drive productivity on this airplane.
And if I can when you say stabilizing at 10 when you look farther given the uniqueness of this airplane is there a timeframe when you’re considering and what timeframe would it be when you might consider even going higher in rate? Jr.</strong> Well I think once we get to 10 and stabilize and feel good about where we are and all the operational metrics are in the – all within the right bandwidth that’s the timeframe when we’d be making a decision to and obviously the capital and whatever investments are required in the continued demand will all be taken into consideration when we – and if we decide to take the rate up.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Our next question in queue will come from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Noah.
Just wanted to follow-up on 787 as well can you maybe sort of I don’t know walk us through what your process was to get comfort that the implementation of the battery fix won’t be disruptive to all of the positive comments you’re making here on your metrics on cost and on deferred production.
It seems like you have your arms around it but it’s obviously fairly unique.
You’ve never done it before.
you have to retrofit the active fleet retrofit aircraft on the tarmac put it into the manufacturing process maybe a little bit more color on how you’re comfortable with that not really changing things significantly? Jr.</strong> No I think as [MoDs go] in the end with the fixed defined and the implementation in hand this is not a big one okay.
This is two batteries and two locations on the airplane that the locations don’t have to change much.
There is some different interface to the electrical system which is not rocket science I guess I would say and there is the enclosure around the battery which fits into the spacing that already exists and then there is the exhaust system which is designed again to easily retrofit.
So this is days not weeks it’s a standardized fix that we’ve already implemented on a couple of our airplanes and a couple of our customers’ airplanes already.
And so we have a pretty high confidence level that we can be through the majority of this in a few weeks mid-May out in the field and into our production line and it’s not a long pole in any tent it’s not a gating item on any [perk chart].
So the straight-forwardness of the fix itself the fact that it doesn’t represent a gating item in any other production or design gives us confidence that this won’t disrupt anything other than the schedule that we’ve laid out.
It’s very helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Jr.</strong> You are very welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
So Jim you mentioned you’re expecting to launch the -10 this year.
What would it take to launch because it doesn’t look like you have a whole lot of delivery slot open at a rate of 10 a month.
What do you need to see in terms of customers and do you also have to make a decision to go to 12 a month to be able to deliver it in a reasonable timeframe? Jr.</strong>  Well as usual Cai you are asking the right question.
I mean I think the – obviously the stability of 10 the supply chains’ capacity to do the 10 with possible higher rates if that’s what the marketplace supports are the key questions.
The cost of doing this airplane and the technical risk of doing it is not high.
There would be some capital involved probably but I think we are feeling very good about all of those issues okay.
And so we just want to get through what we’re getting through right now.
We want to feel good about the production environment that we feel increasingly confident in and when that all comes together and I would anticipate sooner rather than later we’re going to be making a call here.
Okay.
And so I mean I assume what’s the earliest you could deliver it? Jr.</strong> Well we’d have to source through that because if it did require taking up right that would add a little more time into it.
But it’s again we’d have to define that.
And we’re working through that right now.
I would say the one thing that we don’t lack for with the -10 is demand.
Customers want this airplane.
And so we’re being pushed to get this airplane out.
This is more us being disciplined about feeling comfortable with the business case and about the stability as a manufacturing environment overall before we add something else to it; sooner rather than later.
Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg I would like to stick with the 787 learning curve since it’s just such a key component to your cash flow story and I wanted to ask for clarification and then just a couple of more points on this.
But when you’re answering Carter’s question you mentioned 60% I wanted to be clear on what you were talking about there? Are you talking about a 60% reduction from the first – from line number 8 in terms of cash cost?  Yeah that’s unit cost of line number 8 versus unit cost of line number 100.
Okay.
So would that then imply something like $160 million cost on 100 down from $400 million on 8? I haven’t gotten into specific costs on the airplane for obvious reasons.
But I would tell you from a unit cost perspective we’re continuing to come down the learning curve and we expect to do that going forward.
And again as I mentioned it’s not just within our own factories it’s within our supply chain.
I mean just to give an example I was out last week lead airplane they’ve got metrics in place hours per job what it is today what it is on the next airplane what it needs to be next week what it needs to be by the end of the year.
So they are very aware of what they need to do to come down the learning curve.
And again I think as the production system stabilizes you’re starting to flush out the efficiencies and we’re assuming they’d be able to do that as we continue to deliver more airplanes.
On that note could I ask you if the future step downs or the future improvements in the learning curve because this was a very significant one of course in Q1 are these tied to step downs that are negotiated as the rates bump up in other words do we see another big move with 7 and then another big move with 10? No.
And it’s not tied to that? No I mean I mean internally I’d say it’s a pretty traditional learning curve with objectives to meet that curve and then within the supply chain I think as I’ve talked before it’s differed by supplier by supplier depending on what was negotiated.
So in some cases we do have step down pricing at a specific unit.
On other cases you have more of a I’ll say kind of a traditional curve.
But it differs supplier by supplier as we kind of work through discussion with them.
So you won’t see what I would say a traditional learning when you look at an overall basis you have on other programs.
But again it’s obviously a very big focus item for us and the teams are very committed to continuing to look at efficiencies and again whether it’s just a supply chain once any airplane program gets to rate and stabilizes we’ve been able to prove that we’ve been able to flush out inefficiencies and come down the curve even further.
And frankly I think the 737 is a great example of that where that airplane has been production a long time and there is still opportunities that we’ve been able to capture and efficiencies and we’re going to continue that discipline on the 87.
So a lot of work to do good plans I think in place but a very committed focus and team to continue down that curve on a unit-by-unit basis.
Right just on 737 since you brought it up.
Yeah.
Jim talked about bridging the two models with Ryanair order.
Yeah.
How should we think about pricing during that period of time and margins on the aircraft and then the mix of production will you overlap or make something of a clean break between the two in that timeframe? No it will be gradual it will – part of the production plan there is to as you phase out NG ramping up MAX at the same time so there is some capital that we’ve invested there to really do that seamlessly and have the MAX running down and we improved out on one line as the NG line continues to be at peak rate and then we’ll make the full transition.
So I think they’ve got a very good discipline well thought out manufacturing plan well in advance of going into final assembly obviously.
as far as pricing is I’d say it’s pretty much in line and it’s playing out within our expectations.
As I said before certainly when you have end of line or you have airplanes that are first launch customers and so on there you see some more attractive pricing in that regard.
but overall I think it’s coming in within our expectations.
Thank you.
And the team is doing a great job executing rates I mean record rate there with record low shortages single-digit over time and a very good plan in place to get the 42.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Jason.
Congratulations on dealing with the battery issue it’s a very nice way I thought.
Jr.</strong> Thank you.
A quick clarification for Greg on the 787 you suggested that when it stabilizes things will get a lot better can you just clarify exactly how long it takes to stabilize the rate.
And then Jim can you talk a little bit about what’s going on in services.
Generally speaking what your approach is to services going forward for as far as growth is concerned and obviously it seems some really nice margin performance in services particularly on the military side here recently.
Can you just offer a little bit of color as to generally what’s going on in services why the good perform and what the outlook looks like there? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
I think on the – make sure I answer your question on the unit costs.
But as we peak and then that’s when we’ll start to become positive on a unit cost basis again it stabilized and that’s usually about a year year and a half once we hit 10.
and that’s the plan right now.
But based on everything else you’ve heard me say today we’re continuing to try to pull that to the left the best we can.
But essentially that’s kind of a time frame that you’d be looking at on a unit basis.
And on your question on services I mean I think overall in both sides of our business we see it as a growth opportunity.
I think if there was a theme – since we’re leveraging the largest installed base in aerospace in both our Defense and Commercial business there is an asset that many other don’t have.
And but on top of that footprint I think there is a theme of injecting more technology and more IT into the services we’re adding.
And so I would say those two themes plus the theme of sort of packaged multiyear commitments where we’re guaranteeing some performance with technology and the reason we can do that again some known income stream does.
And the reason we think we can do that more effectively than others is again because we know the technology involved better than anyone else.
And so I think these multiyear deals more IT particularly on the logistics side and more technology for mods and modifications I think that all spells a major growth opportunities.
We just keep our feet underneath ourselves and make the right combo of acquisitions and internal investments.
And it seems to be going well as you noted.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
And that question will come from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Yeah good morning Jim and Greg.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Nice quarter.
Jim I guess talking about 787 going back to when days of Global Aeronautica used to be the long pole in the tent it sounds like in South Carolina things are progressing quite well.
And you’re also announcing a big investment there.
I think earlier this month you made an announcement about $1 billion investment.
Can you give us just some more color about what you’re seeing down there in the opportunity and what kind of flexibility that’s going to build in for you given all these projects you have got planned? Jr.</strong> Peter we see South Carolina as exceeding expectations in terms of its performance to date.
Greenfield operations in this industry are not easy and I give credit to the entire Boeing team plus the team in Everett that went out of their way to help make South Carolina a success story early on.
So all the metrics there are good in terms of production rates and efficiencies and cost and productivity.
And as you pointed out we are going to deepen our engagements down there.
I mean we have – South Carolina has and we have put together a deal that offers incentives to us but asks us to perform against those incentives in terms of investments and new jobs over I believe it’s an 8-year period and we’re excited about that because I think Boeing overall is stronger and can handle the growth that we see in front of us.
We see tremendous growth in front of us for the next couple of decades and we’re going to need a number of places from which we can draw talent and use capital and so we’re very pleased that South Carolina is moving along as well as it is.
Okay.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Thank you and that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now return you to the Boeing company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the question for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after session ends please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we’re ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
Thank you sir.
And that first question will come from Al Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me? Jr.</strong> Yes we can hear you.
Go ahead.
Okay great just wanted to pick up the phone and not use my headset.
I know you didn’t reveal a number.
But I know we’re all interested and wondered if you could talk more about the cost of the 787 fix and how that will be handled in accounting.
I understand it’s amortized over an accounting block of 1100 planes just a little more detail about that and what you think it cost Boeing overall even though it’s not hitting the income statement that would be great.
Jr.</strong> I’ll ask Greg to answer that question for you Al.
Thanks  It was in – the majority of it wasn’t reflected in our Q1 results and that was cost period cost and particularly around R&amp;D and around our route cause investigation redesign and the testing of that and then also our estimated cost of incurring the repair for a customers’ fleet going forward.
So that’s what was primarily reflected there.
And as far as the cost basis you referred to in the 1100 units there was a slight increase there for the additional retrofit on the undelivered airplanes throughout the balance of the cost base.
Can you give numbers and R&amp;D went down.
So… Well we managed to absorb this.
So it was – it was really a matter of priorities.
I mean re-shifted our priorities and our people on to this effort from other efforts.
And this is a one Boeing effort so it was people from NVCA and BDS and our engineering and technology areas and so on so….
And the additional retrofit how does that affect your accounting block?  Yeah it’s minimal within the accounting block.
1 100 up to … 1 100 units it’s amortized…   Right On a unit basis it’s over 1 100 but it’s minimal.
Okay.
Thanks.
You’re welcome  Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Jon Ostrower with the Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Jon.
Question about the decision to the production profile for 777-X.
You talked about different competing production locations.
Can you kind of talk about the considerations there as you see it and also the 787 learning curve looking at a 60% reduction from airplane 8 to airplane 100 with 92 airplanes of learning in that process.
Can you talk about how that compares to 777 and just doing a rough calculations with numbers seems to indicate that it’s actually higher than 85% learning curve there that would seem to indicate that it’s actually cost is coming up as fast as it wasn’t like 777.
Can you kind of talk about those two factors? Jr.</strong> Jon I’ll give you the answer on 777 and then I’ll let Greg handle the learning curve question.
I think we have figured out by and large what airplane to build.
We think we know and as you know as well because you know us well the composite length modified fuselage new engines okay.
And so the question there is the question then becomes and we’re sort of in the middle of assessment now where to assemble it and where to build the major components and we’re in the middle of that process.
I mean obviously Everett is doing one heck of a job right now building the current 777 model.
And so Everett obviously be an attractive place to consider for the assembly for the next 777 model the composite way.
We have to think through as in the case of assembly where we do that but we are sort of in the middle of that and I think over the next few months we’ll be in a position to talk more in a more granular way about what makes the more sense for our customers and for the company.
Greg? Yeah with regards to the learning curve yeah you’ve seen a 60 per slope there from unit 8 to 100 if you compare that to 777 some of that obviously is just the upfront disruption.
But over time the learning curve assumptions will be very similar to what we’ve seen on the 777.
So it’s really just kind of the upfront units that really differentiate that curve.
How are you seeing the 787 curve now is it – how is it kind of working with the first 100 airplanes I mean obviously there was a lot of disruption in terms of the reworking of all that.
Jr.</strong> Right.
Are you seeing as you kind of got stabilized from airplane 66 to 92 how is that curve looking as far as cost reduction goes? Jr.</strong> Yeah I mean I would say we’re coming down the curve as we had planned to whether it’s in final assembly or within Charleston.
So I think the teams are tracking well to the plan we put in place there.
And certainly as we’ve eliminated any disruption and we are seeing components coming in with no open work.
Again it really allows the production system to operate as it was designed and stabilize and therefore be able to come down the curve further and we expected going forward throughout the block.
So again I think we are making good progress lot of work in front of us but the teams are focused and dedicated to it and we got to stay on it.
Thanks guys.
Jr.</strong> All right thanks.
Thank you very much.
Our next question in queue will come from Christopher Drew with The New York Times.
Please go ahead.
Jim could you step back a second and perhaps reflect a bit on why it’s so hard to make a new plane these days when I think more broadly of not just the 87 but the F-35 some of the Airbus planes and whether at all those difficulties are now going to lead to this narrow a little bit more caution here with the harvesting of the technologies rather than big new planes for quite a while.
Jr.</strong> Well I think one thing I’ve learned in this industry is not to comment on another guy’s airplane.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> So if you don’t mind I'll resist any Lockheed Martin or Airbus I’m impressed enough with how hard it is to manage what I’ve got to manage.
I would say though there’s a theme here.
The – if you look back in the 100 years that we’ve been in business we go through areas where we get excited by new technologies because of the performance it can bring to our customers whether it’s cloth to aluminum whether it’s sort of quilted aluminum to smooth aluminum.
And then there’s – there are just technological shifts that have gone on and as you make the first bite of that apple you tend to be on the bleeding edge for a while as you’ve heard me characterize and I think that was the case with the 787.
We should have been that’s not an excuse we should have been more disciplined about the way we went about that.
And it has given us and I think to your point it now has given us a suite of technologies that we now can deploy now that they were matured in a bleeding edge fashion over the last 8 years.
I think the next decade or two that allows us to mature these matured technologies into a number of applications.
And each and everyone of the commercial applications that I talked about today whether it’s the 737 787 or the 777 new derivatives are all going to be step function improvements much more than a normal derivative even though the cost and work will be roughly the same as new derivative but the reason they’ll provide more benefit is because of all the investments and all the bleeding edge work we did over the last decade.
So I think we may be in an era where we can absorb somewhat less risk and still deliver a lot of performance.
30 years from now will there be some new technology that we’ll all wrestle with probably.
Hopefully will there be enough people in Boeing that are here today that will remember the lessons learned from the 87 I hope so.
I’m old.
I’ll be on a beach somewhere then.
But anyway that’s kind of the answer.
Okay thank you.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah of course.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from the line of Andrew Parker with Financial Times.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Can you hear me? Jr.</strong>  Yes yes loud and clear.
Good can I just take you back to the 787 and the cost of the (inaudible)? Can you just spell out please what you estimate the cost the fix that you’ve got to prove along from the FAA what that is going to cost? And also can you speak to airlines have been talking about compensation can you give for the disruption of those schedules et cetera can you give any sort of sense on the quantum you expect in terms of compensation that you may have to pay? Yeah I’ll start with the cost.
As I mentioned earlier the costs that were incurred in the first quarter were around the root cause investigation the redesign and the testing of the components.
and then an estimate of what we think it’s going to cause to repair the balance of the customer’s fleet.
That was predominantly what was reflected in the first quarter.
I’ll let Jim talk about.
Forgive me for interrupting.
Can you spell out what that cost is then that’s gone through your Q1 earnings statement? Jr.</strong> We haven’t talked specific on the numbers.
but it’s minor in comparison to the overall results.
And again we were able to absorb that by reallocating resources and expertise on to this.
So again what you saw in the results for Q1 we’re able to absorb that and that’s in those margins and at the same time able to hold our full-year guidance based on that.
All right.
And does – to your point of that as well as the testing of the fix and so you said that it also reflects some of the cost of actually doing the work on the 50 planes that you’ve so far delivered.
Correct.
Does it include the cost of fixing all of those 50… Yeah.
…or just some of them? No that includes our estimated cost of what we think it’s going to take to do all 50 airplanes.
Right.
and forgive me can you give us a specific number then on this cost? Jr.</strong>  No.
Right it’s okay.
And to the point about compensation please? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
I’ll take that one Andrew.
I mean I think as you know there are no contractual obligations there.
But having said that there are a few places where we’ll work with our customers to ensure and there’s a variety of ways we can work with them to ensure that the disruption doesn’t hurt their results in there and their operation more than it needs to.
And that’ll be at a different way with every every customer.
Right and could I just follow-up with one final thing.
Forgive me because you may have addressed this earlier but when do you expect the 787 program to reach break-even on a unit basis at least? Yeah.
it’s when we reach when we peak on our deferred production and basically peak at rate in about a year a year and a half from that time period is when on a unit basis we will break the curve versus program accounting.
Sorry.
The timeline on which on a unit basis your break-even is just in terms of when that is?  About two years from now.
About two years from now?  Right.
Okay.
Right thanks very much.
You’re welcome.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Tom Black with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for talking my call.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Could you discuss a little bit about the give and takes on the 777X that is under discussion right now the economics versus range the new components versus compatibility? Jr.</strong> Well I think this will be a derivative airplane a significant derivative airplane.
The two new key technologies will be a composite wing which will be a fourth generation composite wing for us.
So this is an example of a game changing technology that we now have good experience with and now have matured and the second will be new engines on the airplane.
And our discussions with customers have said that the range and efficiency that this engine wing combination will produce is significant in their minds.
And that there’ll be a splitting of value between us and our customers that works for both of us that’s those are the discussions we’re having right now.
We have a lot of confidence that about the executability of this plane and the pricing we think we can get that will benefit both us and our customers.
So we’re pretty far down that evaluation and we’re excited about what we see.
You talked about some step function improvements that came from the learning on the 787? Jr.</strong> Yes.
Would that be applied similar to the 777? Jr.</strong> Yes I mean… For example you had more electrical components on there versus some of the bleed of the engines that you use them? Jr.</strong> Yes.
I mean I think that the biggest of those things would be the wing okay.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> Composite wings are incredibly efficient as compared to aluminum wings not only in the way not only in the aero dynamics but in the weight on them.
And that plus the engines are producing over 90% of the value of this airplane.
let me just leave it that way.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> And the composite wing the bigger of composite wing gets the more efficient it becomes and this is a big composite wing.
Okay.
And if I could just on the economic versus range some airlines want more range others want more… Jr.</strong> Well I think the market segment that this is going into in general launches much range as they can get.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> And so we will have two models that have different capacities so thick roots versus thinner roots.
But range is something that within reason they’re going to pay for.
And that’s what the wing produces and that’s what the new engines produce.
Are there any numbers you can throw out there? Jr.</strong>  No.
We’re not ready to announce the specifics on that yet.
But it will be significant improvements in most metrics that you would associate with a new airplane.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Steve Wilhelm with Puget Sound.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
and it’s Puget Sound.
I appreciate gentlemen.
Jr.</strong> Thank you.
And just in terms of the 777 could you say a little more about the timing of the offer and also what that will mean in terms of the 747-I? Jr.</strong>  I think first of all we see those two airplanes addressing different market segments and so I think and the 777 market segment is a bigger one than the 47-I.
But we don’t see the 777X introduction cannibalizing significantly the 47-8 which was the implication of your question.
So I think we see two market segments there and I think the timing the timing is up to the approval of the board of directors.
But it wouldn’t be a shock if this was settled before the end of the year.
Okay thank you.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah Steve.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media.
</strong>sir.
And our final question will come from Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
Please go ahead.
Hi there.
Jr.</strong>  Hi Josh.
One last question on the 787 cost; can you give any kind of ballpark parameter around the per unit cost of the fix for the ones that are out in the fleet and obviously that number then won’t include all of the work that went into developing the fix.
But can you help us think about what it costs to actually install the thing on planes that are out there now? Yeah again I would say it was not significant.
You saw it in the first quarter results.
So the margins just softer BCA absorb that and again not significant.
When you look at the overall program over a 1100 unit; very very small because if you think about it you had to put a battery on those airplanes you’re putting a different configuration here.
So it’s rather minimal on a unit-by-unit basis if you look over the 1 100 units.
All right and what’s the current 787 inventory and what’s it going to be in May when the deliveries restart? Well the 787 inventory is going to continue to grow as we build up for ramping up production.
And then that will be offset by the increase in deliveries.
So we expect it to grow.
It’s planned to grow as we increase again as we increase rates.
And some of that will be offset by the increase in deliveries.
But this quarter I think total program was about $28.8 billion.
So I’m sorry.
What I mean was how many airplanes do you have that have been built but not delivered now and how many will you have in May when those deliveries then resume? Well we’ve got 25 airplanes that are on the ramp today that are completed out of final five in Charleston 20 in Everett that are essentially waiting for the battery to be swapped out.
So those airplanes obviously once we get through the retrofit we’ll get them in to our normal test flight schedule and customer delivery and they’re all assumed in our delivery profile through the balance of the year.
Operator that concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions while we didn’t get to your question please give our media relations team a call at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introduction I’m turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice-President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s second quarter 2013 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we'll take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we’ve provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today.
As a remainder you can follow today’s broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals we included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risks which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of the web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Jr.</strong>  Thank you Troy and good morning everybody.
Let me begin today with the quick update on the ongoing analysis of the 787 incident at Heathrow earlier this month followed by an overview of our business environment with some thoughts and another strong quarter of operating performance.
After that Greg will walk you through our financial results and outlook.
As all of you know the safety of our passengers and crew members who fly on Boeing airplanes is our highest priority.
While we are limited in what we can say publicly by the rules of the investigation we are working closely with the UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch or AAIB and other parties to fully understand the incident and to address recommendations in the AAIB’s Interim Report regarding the fixed Emergency Locator Transmitter or ELT a component which is widely used across the industry and has been for number of years on many different aircraft types.
In anticipation of planned action by the FAA and other regulators in response to the AAIB’s recommendations we have provided customers instructions for the proper inspection and/or temporary removal of the fixed ELT’s.
While the AAIB’s interim report also noted that the history of this unit across the global airplane fleet suggest that an event of this sort would be extremely rare we agree that these are reasonable precautionary measures to take while the investigation continues in sum we believe good progress has been made in addressing this issue and we remain highly confident in the future of the 787 program and the integrity safety and performance of the airplane.
With that let’s turn to the business environment on Slide 2.
Global customer demand remains strong for our fuel efficient and value creating commercial airplane family and that is evident in the continued vigorous order activity we are seeing.
During the second quarter we booked 481 net orders which increased our record commercial airplane backlog to nearly 4 800 airplanes worth $339 billion.
Our customers continue to replace older airplanes in favor of new ones that offer compelling economics and increased fuel efficiency.
Deferral requests remain well below the historical average and request to accelerate deliveries continue at a healthy pace.
We continue to see relatively balanced demand geographically and our backlog remains evenly split between airplanes used to support traffic growth and fleet replacement.
Passenger traffic trends are healthy and have grown even stronger in the past few months.
While we continue to see near-term pressure in the cargo market we are pleased with the recent 774 freighter ordered activity highlighting the superior value proposition of our airplane and its competitive position in the market.
Strong customer interest in our future new airplanes has fully affirmed our product strategy and the market leading position it has earned us.
Our airplane family has produced – provide the most comprehensive value in the market for the product strategy that is customer driven customer focused and customer generated and touches every market segment.
Last month we launched the 787-10 with 102 orders and commitments including 50 firm orders from five of the most prominent customers in the industry.
The -10 further strengthens our unmatched twin-isle lineup and leverages prior technology investments.
It is a win-win approach that allows us to provide our customers an airplane with unparalleled economics while minimizing business risks to deliver increased shareholder value.
The business case for the 777-X is maturing as plan as we gain further insights from our customers and develop our design and production system strategies we continue to target the launch for later this year and entry into service for the 777-X around the end of the decade.
Airline interest in our new fuel efficient 737 MAX remain significant as we now have booked more than 1400 cumulative orders to date and have effectively bridged production from the NG to the MAX.
Today 737 airplane continues to attract strong customer interests with performance that exceeds the competition in their segments.
We remain on track to increase 737 production to 42 per month in the second quarter of next year.
Further we are positioned to match production with additional demand as our customers require it.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security the U.S.
fiscal year 2014 budget deliberations are well underway following the release of the President’s budget request in April.
While it's still early in the congressional process the Defense and space mark-ups appear neutral to Boeing at the top level.
That said neither the President’s request nor the congressional bills reflect sequestration level spending with us.
We remain concerned about the impact that sequestration targets will have in our customers military readiness and the industrial base.
Within this context our relative strength stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven affordable that is being delivered on budget and on schedule.
Despite budget pressures growth is still emerging in those areas we have been targeting with investment and innovation such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance and cyber security.
Growth in international markets continues to help us mitigate domestic market pressures.
International Defense space and security business represented 23% of our revenue during the quarter and remains approximately 40% of our current backlog as we continue to expand our share in addressable international markets.
We also continue to strengthen our competitive position in U.S.
and international Defense markets by driving further efficiency and productivity through our long-running market-based affordability effort and our partnering for success initiative that we began last year.
As many of you recall partnering for success is a long-term team oriented approach that examines opportunities across the supply chain in design production and support to drive significant improvements in quality flow and efficiencies.
It is an enterprise wide one Boeing effort responding to customer demands for increased productivity and lower costs in our products and services.
We are pleased with the initial response from numerous suppliers that recognize the growth opportunity they will have working with us and we expect the full benefits to our customers and suppliers to accrue over time inline with the long cycle nature of our business.
Now let’s move to a summary of the second quarter on Slide 03.
Both businesses reported strong results during the quarter as we generated healthy revenue higher operating margin and significant operating cash flow.
Revenue at commercial airplanes was $13.6 billion and operating margin grew to 10.7% resulting from lower R&amp;D higher volume and strong program execution.
Marking our highest output level in nearly 15 years we delivered 169 commercial airplanes in the second quarter including 16 787s.
During the quarter we completed all of the 787 battery system enhancements on previously delivered airplanes and returned the full fleet to service.
787 production is progressing smoothly at a rate of seven per month and we remain on track to increase the rate to 10 per month by year-end.
With 787-9 progressing through final assembly we’re now focused on achieving first flight later in the year and production remains on track to support the first scheduled customer delivery next year.
Our discipline gated development process has been instrumental in the successful development of the airplane.
The same process allowed us to accelerate the expected 787 MAX entry into service and is also being applied to other programs.
Turning to the Defense business Defense Space &amp; Security generated revenue of $8.2 billion in the second quarter and increased operating margin and operating profit.
Numerous important contract awards were captured during the quarter including five commercial satellite orders and a strategic international helicopter support contract.
We also finalized Chinook and Osprey Multiyear contracts that totaled more than $10 billion.
Noteworthy program milestones achieved during the quarter included the successful test fights for Phantom Eye EMARS and our Hypersonic X51.
We also began assembly on the first KC-46 Tanker in partnership with the U.S.
Air Force we successfully conducted the critical design review on the KC-46 Tanker program in July which is a major milestone conducted well ahead of the contract schedule.
During the quarter we delivered the first of 15 CH-147F Chinook helicopters to the Royal Canadian Air force and delivered for launch the sixth U.S.
Air Force Wideband Global SATCOM Satellite.
In summary our team delivered another strong quarter of financial results in both businesses captured orders totaling $40 billion made good progress on our partnering for success and other productivity initiatives and as Greg will discuss returned increase valued to shareholders through share repurchase and dividend Now I will turn it over to Greg to discuss our financial results and our guidance Greg.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let’s turn to the Slide 4 to discuss the results for the quarter.
Second quarter revenue increased 9% to $21.8 billion driven by strong commercial airplane deliveries.
Core operating margins increased to 9.3% in the quarter primarily driven by higher commercial deliveries lower R&amp;D and solid productivity gains at both businesses.
Core earning per share increased 13% to a $1.67 a share in the quarter on higher revenue and continued strong operating performance again in both commercial airplanes and the Defense business.
So let’s discuss commercial airplanes now on Slide 5.
For the second quarter our commercial airplane business reported revenue of $13.6 billion on a 169 airplane deliveries and strong operating margins of 10.7%.
Higher commercial airplane operating margins were driven by increased 737 and 777 deliveries strong core operating performance and lower R&amp;D partially offset by the dilution of higher 787 deliveries in the quarter.
Gross inventory for the company included $30.3 billion related to the 787 program an increase from the second quarter of approximately $1.5 billion.
This increase was primarily driven by higher inventory in support of the planned production rate increases later in the year and the introduction of the 787-9 program.
Included in the working process inventory are the deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the 787 program was $18.7 billion at the end of the second quarter and includes approximately 64 airplanes still in process.
The deferred production balance is still expected to peak at slightly over $20 billion and then decline as the program achieves the planned rate of 10 per month and stabilize at that level.
The launch of the 787-10 did not result in any change in the 787 accounting quantity revenue or cost estimates during the second quarter although we do expect the 787-10 aircraft to be incorporated in these estimates later in the year as we firm up customer orders.
Commercial airplanes captured $28.7 billion of orders during the quarter and increased backlog to a new record of $339 billion or 4 757 aircraft.
Customer demand for our game-changing fuel efficient airplanes remains strong as illustrated by the additional 246 737 MAX orders and 50 787-10 orders in the quarter.
Turning now to Defense Space &amp; Security results in Slide 6.
Second quarter revenue for our Defense business was $8.2 billion and operating margins grew to 9.5% again driven by strong core operating performance across the business.
International customers accounted for 23% of our Defense revenue in the second quarter and we continue to drive towards our goal of 30% of revenue going forward.
Our focus on affordability continues as we remain committed to our market-based affordability efforts we’ve already captured over $3 billion in savings.
We’re on track for further lowering our cost structure in an effort to increase productivity and strengthen our competitive position in this challenging environment.
Revenue at Boeing Military Aircraft was $3.9 billion in the second quarter primarily driven by lower F-15 and AEW and C volume.
Operating margins was 9.6% in the quarter.
Network &amp; Space System revenue of $2 billion increased 5% primarily driven by improved volume on commercial satellite and the Space Launch Systems program.
Operating margin is 6.7% in the quarter.
Global Services &amp; Support had second quarter revenue of $2.2 billion and operating margins of 11.8% on strong performance at our integrated logistics business.
Defense Space &amp; Security reported a solid backlog of $71 billion and International business was 37% of our current backlog representing customers outside the United States.
Turning now to Slide 7; the BCC net financing portfolio declined to $4.1 billion on normal runoff that exceeded new aircraft volume unallocated expense from our core operations of $177 million was higher primarily due to an increase in deferred compensation expense driven by our higher stock price and overall stock market performance.
Turning now to cash flow on Slide 8.
Operating cash flow for the quarter was $3.5 billion.
The strength of our cash flow was driven by improved performance and favorable timing of receipts and expenditures in the quarter.
As a result our strong performance and execution of our balance cash deployment strategy we’ve repurchased 10.2 million shares for $1 billion in the quarter and we also paid a 12% higher dividend to shareholders compared to the same quarter last year.
As we continue to execute to our plans we remain focused on investing in key growth areas of our business and returning cash to shareholders.
Moving to cash and debt balances on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with over $14 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Debt levels increased slightly to support aircraft financing at Boeing Capital and our cash position continues to provide a sound liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Turning now to Slide 10 to discuss our outlook for 2013.
Due to the strong performance in the first half and the outlook for the balance of the year we’re increasing our 2013 core earnings per share guidance to be between $6.20 and $6.40 per share.
Revenue guidance for the year increased $1 billion to now be between $83 billion and $86 billion reflecting higher expected volume driven by international revenue and mix at our Defense business.
As a result Defense revenue guidance increased to be between $31.5 billion and $32.5 billion.
Commercial airplane revenue guidance of $51 billion to $53 billion remains unchanged and continues to reflect higher expected deliveries in 2013.
We still expect 787 deliveries to be greater than 60 for this year and deliveries relatively evenly spread over the remaining two quarters.
Total commercial airplane deliveries remain on track to be between 635 and 645 for the year.
Boeing Commercial airplane operating margin guidance is increased to be greater than 9.5% on improved performance and lower R&amp;D.
With our continued focus on development program execution we now expect total research and development spending for 2013 to be approximately $3.3 billion a $100 million lower than our prior guidance.
Due to ramp up of 737 MAX and 787-10 investments we do expect second half of 2013 R&amp;D spending to be slightly higher than the first half.
Partially offsetting the favorable performance of the businesses and our higher unallocated cost and other costs total core unallocated expenses now forecasted to be approximately $600 million for the year driven largely by deferred compensation expense again due to recent share price and stock market increases.
Furthermore our tax rate is now expected to be approximately 31% driven primarily by lower than expected manufacturing tax credit in 2013.
Operating cash flow before pension contributions guidance for the year is unchanged to greater than $8 billion.
We continue to plan to make a $1.5 billion discretionary pension contribution in the third quarter.
Overall second quarter performance was strong at both businesses as we further improved productivity continue to execute on our new airplane development program successfully navigated the difficult Defense environment and efficiently deployed cash to shareholders.
We expect this strong operational performance to continue throughout the balance of 2013.
With that I’ll now turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Greg.
With a strong first half behind us and a successful launch of the 787-10 we remain committed to the goals we initially set for 2013.
They include continued conversion of our record backlog into deliveries through strong core operating performance that allows us to return cash to shareholders while investing wisely in our products technologies and people to sustain our growth and competitiveness.
Our priorities going forward remain clear.
The profitable ramp up in production of our commercial airplane programs executing on our commercial and Defense development programs driving productivity affordability and safety throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen and reposition our Defense business with investments in growth areas amid further international expansion and importantly providing increasing value to both our customers and our shareholders as we do it.
Now we would be glad to take any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions).
And first from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Joe.
Good morning go ahead.
I would like to ask you about a little bit more about 787 productivity and the learning curve understanding that the -9 had an impact on your results in that quarter the introduction of the -9.
Is there any way to strip out just the -8 to think about what’s going on there from a unit cost standpoint relative to the last couple of quarters.
And then on deferred production costs Greg I heard you say reiterate that slightly over $20 billion is where you expect it to peak it’s $18.7 billion at the end of Q2 if you add another $1.6 billion next quarter you could be over that level.
So any more color you can give on the profile when you think it will peak what quarter even and where above $20 billion or is it $21 billion or is it $23 billion that sort of thing.
Thanks.
Is that it Joe.
Now let me on the unit cost progress to your point we certainly had 787-9 in there and we also had an inventoried build-up as we plan for as you know getting to 10 a month by the end of the year.
So that's what you're seeing there in the inventory build-up quarter-over-quarter.
If you strip that out you would see the normal progress that we’ve seen on the unit cost basis on the -8 and I think if you heard me say before if we kind of just go back to unit eight to around unit 100 we’ve seen anywhere from 55% to 60% reduction.
And so we’re continuing to see progress on a unit-by-unit basis as the production system stabilizes and we get ready for the next rate break we're also seeing improvement on the overall kind of operational metrics around traveled work improvements in quality and reductions in flow time.
So I would say it’s progressing very well and again if you stripped out those unique items you continue to see the progress there on a unit basis.
With regards to deferred production balances going forward we’re still comfortable with that peaking at slightly over $20 billion and again think of that as we reach 10 a month and stabilize at that level that's when we'll see that turn which roughly is about early 2015 timeframe mid 2015 in that area but the planned inventory build-up obviously is in the support of our rates as we get again prepared to go to 10 a month but that kind of basically how you’ll see that profile going forward.
So clearly deferred production build per quarter will at the slow dramatically before the peak? Jr.</strong>  Yeah don’t forget you got increased deliveries as well.
So the increased deliveries are helped offsetting the growth as we build-up for rate further in the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome.
Next we’ll go to Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
On your margins at BCA so you took those up to greater than 9.5% presumably now you have the full bridge of a 737NGs in your accounting block which I would expect would be a little more pressure on price and you’ve got the early MAX production in there as well also I would expect similar pressure on margin.
So can you talk about how you’ve kept margins up or even taken margins up here given that trajectory and as you look forward and when this block moves out to later production of the MAX? Should we expect those to be higher margin airplanes which it would actually help this number? Jr.</strong> Well to answer you first question Doug.
It’s just back to basics on improving productivity across the operation and as you know on the 737 they have continued to come up with ways to do that whether it’s the horizontal wing line or other opportunities within the final assembly area and then partnering for success and working for with the supply chain.
So all of that in combination really kind of helping us navigate through those early blocks on the MAX and later blocks or later airplanes on the NGs and that’s going to be the focus going forward.
And again it ducktails rate into the partnering for success and the goals that we established internally on year-over-year productivity gains working lean plus and working flow time quality et cetera but the program is obviously performing very well as it stabilize at 38 a month we’re at record low shortages and the core operating metrics are performing extremely well at those levels and getting ready to go to 42.
So overall it’s just very solid disciplined focus on productivity on all aspects of cost.
So have you incorporated assumptions around partnering for succuss into this my understanding was that you had been looking more at normal productivity improvements and that partnering for success was potential upside to your margin here.
Yeah that’s how we are playing it out Doug that’s how we are working it.
What you are seeing up to now is the productivity gains that we see in the factories and within the supply chain but then on top of that working partnering for success movement forward.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
The next question is from Rob Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning   Greg just I wanted to clarify something in your answer to Joe’s question on Defense.
On the unit deferred given the fact that there is not that much left to build should we expect to step down in unit deferred in this next quarter I guess based on the mix of -9 and -8s or when should we return back to step downs.
And then Jim I wanted to ask you about Defense obviously you’ve raised you BDS revenue targets for this year it sounds like that’s driven by international but given the late timing on the $37 billion in cuts which you referenced in your monolog is it simply that we just don’t see that this year and would you expect that to develop into a headwind next year I’m sure you have got guys working on this and then of course we might have another $52 billion behind it.
So how do you think about revenues from a slightly longer term trajectory since we really haven’t seen any impact yet? Thanks.
Jr.</strong>  Yeah I will answer the second part first it’s a good question.
I think you’re right the upside we’ve seen this year is for two reasons one: we’ve gotten after our cost very aggressively and very early our market based affordability initiatives the Dennis has been driving over the last couple of years and secondly mixing up on international orders which our company is in many ways uniquely positioned to do given our global footprint which is a shared enterprise effort between our Defense and Commercial business.
And so – but I think we’ve seen some impact of sequestration but we have not begun to see most of it yet.
And so we remain cautious we think there is more to come on sequestration more than we’ve seen so far we are prepared for it margin wise anticipating some pretty draconian kinds of scenarios and we are not out of the woods at all we are just entering the woods.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> And then Greg.
Yes yeah.
Yeah Greg just on deferred.
On your deferred per unit you are going to see some bouncing around a little bit in the third and fourth quarter.
Again as we introduce more -9s into the line and come down back learning curve and then get to the 10 a month and stabilize at that level but again after that you are going to see the normal progress on equivalent unit cost going forward.
But I would consider a temporary disruption here again as we have the blanks firing into the line in the -9 making its way through the production system which by the way is making great progress through our factories and progressing very well.
That’s helpful.
Thank you [Bob].
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome.
Yeah you’re welcome.
And next go to Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
So your commercial margin was 70 bips lower than the first quarter even though R&amp;D was lower and I know mix was really not for you with more [87] but it looks like the margin on the 777 and 37 were down sequentially and can you also comment on the level of period expenses versus the first quarter? Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Yeah Cai margins were installed in the quarter the biggest drivers in there is the dilution on of the 787 deliveries within the quarter versus Q1 that’s the biggest differentiator.
On a period expense stripping our R&amp;D pretty much flat quarter-over-quarter.
Got it.
And then can you comment on the -9 you’ve obviously had very strong demand there and your thoughts about when and if you might raise the production rate above 10 or would you have to see to do that and given that it should be substantially more profitable than the other 8 at what point could that encourage you to raise the equivalent rate on the program? I think assuming at that one Cai there is no question; number one priority is to get to 10 a month and do it well.
And we’re well on our way to executing that.
But there is pressure beyond that to raise production rates.
And it is led by demand for -9s and -10s.
So the mixing up into larger longer range models is correct.
And mixing up on pricing and therefore profitability is also it wants to move in that direction as well.
So I think we’ll make the call ongoing beyond 10 once we’ve settled in at 10 and have a very firm foundation.
And I think if I were a betting man I think that the marketplace demand could move us in that direction over time and that would all be good from a volume and profitability standpoint.
Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> Okay Cai.
And next we’ll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wondering if you could talk about cash a little bit just because even if you deploy 80% plus of your free cash to buybacks and dividends that $14 billion you have in the balance sheet is going to continue to grow.
So I guess can you just talk a little bit about how you’re thinking about that cash? What would make that cash balance come back to maybe a single-digit billions and where acquisitions? Why don’t we see more than $1.5 billion to $2 billion in buyback this year? Just talk a little bit about that.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Well Sam as I think I mentioned before think of our deployment this year is really be in the start.
As we’ve de-risked the company and executed to our production rates navigating through the challenging BOD environment.
We’ve started to execute the deployment plans at the repurchase of dividend.
So I would view that as a start.
It’s certainly something that we’re continuing to monitor and look at going forward as we continue to make progress at BCA making our rate breaks and executing in Defense.
So the 80% is plus or minus it's going to vary over time and we’re going to continue to look at that as we have on a very active basis and deploy our cash going forward in a balanced fashion as we've described with certainly returning cash to shareholders being a big priority for us.
So I would say stay tuned we’re going to continue to execute we’re going to continue to focus on deploying and as we make progress throughout the year we'll make adjustments accordingly.
Next question is from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just a clarification and a question on your comments on deferred production I thought those figures included in process units or projected cost on partial units.
So I wasn't quite sure how the inventory build ahead of the production ramp would influence those numbers.
So just mechanically if you can clarify that for me I would appreciate it.
And what I really want to ask is about the 787 margins and your comment on the -10 sort of lack of impact on the program financials this quarter.
Is it your expectation that the inclusion of the -10 will have a material impact on the program margin or the accounting quantity and I guess to that point can you clarify what the right measure of materiality might be? Yeah.
So I think to answer your first question certainly -9 and then think of it as investments in inventory to de-risk as we get up to 10 a month.
So that's really what's driving that and as I said if you strip that out you would see progress on the -8 as we have seen.
So on a unit-by-unit basis we are continuing to see improvement there and again I would think of this as being temporary as we come down the learning curve on the -9 work through flight that ramp back up in production and deliveries and you will see us make progress through that period.
With regards to the -10 just like we have with other derivative programs as we make progress on firming up orders.
We’ll look at extending the blocks the accounting blocks I see us doing that.
Again it depends on how we firm up our orders but sometime later this year and that would be favorable to the booking rate and but at the same time we would also include the up front investments on the -10.
So net-net would be an improvement.
But that’s a 2013 decision on 2014? Jr.</strong>  Yeah it depends on how the orders progress that they progressed as they have I see it later this year.
Great thank you.
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome.
And next we’ll go to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning Howard.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Hey Howard.
It’s very clear you’ve made a lot of progress introducing the 787 into the market yet you’ve only delivered a high teens number to date with the target of over 60.
Greg there’s a lot of airplanes on the tarmac.
How - why are we not yet at a plane where we would probably see more than those 60 delivered? Well I think Howard when you kind of – you look at the balance of the year and there is airplanes on the tarmac some of those are still have to require going through changing part and some of them are coming out of it.
So if you look at the deliveries for the year about 15% of those are coming out of changing part and then about 20% coming out of Charleston 20% from Charleston and the balance out of Everett.
So certainly in July here and then moving forward you’ll see deliveries picking up through the balance of the year.
But we’re still comfortable with about 60 Howard and certainly if we can do more we will but the team is very focused on delivering the units that are committed through the balance of the year.
Fine thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go to Rob Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Jim your competitors so far achieved a better market share than you on a three engine variant.
I was wondering if you think it’s realistic to expect a 50% market share at some point in the future for your 737 MAX and how you expect to get that? Will that require more aggressive pricing or perhaps raising the narrow-body rate a bit further? Jr.</strong> I think I understand where the question comes from.
I think the answer is pretty straightforward however.
They introduced their new narrow-body year and half before we did.
I think if you look at relative orders along a similar point in time you would see that we’re at or slightly ahead of where they were as we penetrate our customer base.
We’re both producing at roughly the same rate as I said in my remarks we’re ready to go higher if the market demand is there.
So I fully anticipate about a 50/50 when it all sorts out when we’re at equal points in customer penetration when we’re both fully ramped up to rates that we targeted.
And as I also mentioned in my remarks we’re moving the schedule actually early initial deliveries to the left.
I mean we’re going to be in pretty good shape here.
So I would be very surprised if it was any noise level around 50/50.
Where we are going to end up with a higher market share however is in wide-bodies.
I think if you look at the line-up you look at current order trends if we added up at a Kentucky Vintage 50/50 in narrow-bodies I think the difference maker overall will be in wide-bodies where we’ve got five relatively new offerings to their three when they get the A350 of variants introduced and on top of an already strong wide-body position I feel very bullish.
I don’t want to give you a specific market share number or targeted wide-bodies but I think it’s going to be greater than our competitors.
Yeah.
Just a follow-up on the narrow-bodies though based on your view that it’s timing should we therefore realistically expect maybe a few hundred more MAX orders over the next 12 months or so? Jr.</strong> Well I think if you follow my logic yes.
Great thank you.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
And we’ll go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Just following up I think on Rob’s questions follow on question and I suggest when you mentioned that you’re prepared to meet customer demand if that arises for more than 42 a month translation is a company seriously considering going through whatever 45 a month and then what timeframe? And then that with a question kind of there is some piece about some additional piece of that then how do we think about the transition to the MAX from the NG if you are at a higher rate? Jr.</strong> Well I think the spirit in which I made that comment was we will get the 42 next year.
We will go through a transition of NGs to MAXs during a period not soon thereafter that.
And I think at that stage that most likely and I don’t want to – I don’t want to offer guidance here I mean I’m just saying that is we’re assessing market demand we’re seeing sometime around then or after then pressure possibly as the world economy holds in all the rest of the variants are in place to go higher.
And we can do that – rate breaks are never easy but we see a clear path execution there.
I mean we are assessing the scenarios right now how and where we would do that.
Okay and just a natural follow-on.
Jr.</strong> Sure.
Maybe very high level management question is market share a proper metric to think about when you’re thinking about this market.
I mean ultimately Jim right it’s a duopoly of source maybe sort of different flavor duopoly but duopoly is market share really what anybody should be thinking about? I mean do that could potentially have negative implication? Jr.</strong> Sure I think it’s a mistake to only think about market share when you think about this business.
I think because of what you’ve alluded to you either can take too much risk if you’re reaching too high or if you go too low you can get off a learning curve relative to your competition.
So the way to think about market share is there is a corridor you want to be in and then within that corridor you want to have a better product produced at a lower cost and so operating margins become the metric and cash flow becomes the metric.
So think about market share as a corridor you want to be in after that it’s all about operating performance.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome.
Your next question is from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
Jim and Greg I hope you made some positive comments on partnering for success and we’ve heard from other companies that have already reported earnings that the tempo of some of the partnering for success conversations and activity continues to quicken.
So I was hoping you could just elaborate on what’s changing incrementally from your perspective if anything.
And are there any particular milestones that we should be thinking about or other benefits just going to be seen gradually? Jr.</strong> Yeah I think John; I think it will be seen over time.
What’s you’re hearing probably is our increased engagement and our sustained engagement.
And the proposition here is Boeing as the aerospace leader if you work with us there is a chance to increase volumes significantly while helping us work flow cash and margins.
And I think lots of folks are engaging constructively there are some that are more hesitant and it will take time for us to workout business equations that makes sense for both of us.
But we are determined and committed and the reason we are is that we are facing a more for less world in our own markets.
We talk about sequestration we talk about Europe you talk about the expectations of our commercial airline customers as they compete aggressively with one another and is that industry consolidation globalizes.
We need to be out in front of these more for less market trends with the partnership of our suppliers.
And there is room for us together improve our value proposition and for those who work with us aggressively there is an opportunity for them to grow disproportionately.
So it will be over time we are in the second inning  Very helpful thanks a lot.
And we go to Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning good morning Noah.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Noah.
Jim two things that have happened recently from a macroeconomic perspective that I wanted to take your temperature on.
First we’ve seen a little bit of slowing in some emerging markets China stands out other parts of Asia and that’s clearly becoming huge part of your business.
And the second is we’ve seen rates start to increase a little bit and included there are number of drives of demand for your aircraft but I think financing availability and use has played a little bit of a role there at least.
And so clearly there hasn’t been any recent impact to demand we see orders continue to roll in but I just wanted to ask you how worried are you about those two things if at all and have you started to have that conversation pickup with that customer or with your sales force in anyway that you can share with us? Jr.</strong>  Well I think I would categorize them both as watch items that we pay attention to.
And my concern about either right now no I mean I think but it is part of the more for less world that I anticipate and we’ve got to be competitively ready for not very negative scenarios but turbulence and China is – we don’t see any pullback really on their investment in infrastructure related activities.
They remain very committed to that.
I think they are having difficulty transition in their economy right now and there is all kinds of names what they’re doing.
But it's more of a demand driven consumer led domestically driven economy and that transition is not easy to make from a external investment FDI kind of led economy.
And so quite frankly I expect this kind of turbulence as they try to manage that.
And rates rates remain very low historically there was ample financing at rates much higher than where we are today if they keep going and get way way high against historical levels.
Sure we'd have to manage it.
And one of the reasons we’ve managed Boeing Capital Corporation down significantly over the last number of years is so if we ever do get to that point we’ll have some room to help and but we’re nowhere near that point yet.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
Jr.</strong>  Sure.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And that will be from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning.
Good morning.
Just one quick question on the 787 and then one on R&amp;D on the 787 when will you actually have 10 aircraft per month being produced through that line it won't be firing and playing and then.
Okay go ahead.
No no I'm sorry.
Jr.</strong> Keep going both.
Okay.
And then just on the R&amp;D Greg I'm just trying to get a sense for the remainder of this year half on half you suggested that Commercial will be higher from an R&amp;D perspective but what about Defense? And then what does this $3.3 billion number look like and R&amp;D look like going forward? Yeah.
At 2014 2015 2016 from a Cadence perspective?  Yeah.
When you look at the back half of the year Defense rate now looks about flattish so you’ll see that kind of normal run rate that you seen in Q1 and Q2.
And as I said in Q3 and Q4 with BCA you’re seeing the ramp up of the MAX and the 10X.
And then with the -9 starting to obviously taper off that that’s really what you’re seeing there.
As far as going forward at this point I think as I mentioned before we’re seeing kind of flattish R&amp;D going into 2014 and we’re continuing to work that and refine our estimates from there going forward but that we’re seeing right now.
Jr.</strong> Yeah I would just add one of that came through the factory end of the year and the other point I would make just on the Defense R&amp;D is that that team has been able to increase research and development funding in some key elements of innovation relative to our competition.
And I think we’ve been able to do that because we got after the cost issue faster and more aggressively.
So that we can both grow margin and increase investment in R&amp;D.
I think history tells you in the Defense &amp; Space business if you can hang on to your innovation during these downturns it’s going to pay back and may not be for a few years but we’re absolutely convinced it will pay back sorry are you got that… That’s a great point yeah.
And on 787 actually having 10 aircraft per month during to the system with airplanes? Jr.</strong> Yeah at the end of the year.
End of the year.
Jr.</strong> This factory will be operating at 10 a month.
This year… Okay.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
You’re welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I’ll now return you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we’re ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
We’ll go to Jon Ostrower with Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning.
Good morning Jon.
Question about the overall 787 learning curve and really the rate of cost improvement that you’ve already achieved on both the growth inventory and your unit cost where you are today? Yeah.
And as you look at that rate of improvement do you need to increase the rate of improvement from here does it need to be steeper does it need to be shallower compared to where you have come thus far from the first point.
No I think it depends on what starting point you’re coming from but certainly as we look at the units to be produced going forward.
We still see our learning curve that continues on a pretty steady trajectory similar to what we’ve experienced on other program.
But again the differentiator on the 787 is how we have some of these supply agreements time base but net-net you’re going to see improvements on a unit-by-unit basis going forward and a lot of that is again production stability and getting stability in the production system getting to 10 a month and holding there and as I mentioned we are seeing improvement unit-by-unit whether it’s quality or flow time or jobs traveling outside of the factory out in the flight line.
All of that on the unit-by-unit basis is improving and that’s driving the unit cost.
Jr.</strong> Yeah and Jon I would just add that the compounding effect of just staying on our current curve is significant year-over-year.
And just kind of on that notice well just sort of with the 787-9 schedule as you kind of look at introduction of that into your learning curves and kind of bounce back up on just the overall higher cost of a new derivative.
Okay first can you talk about number one where you were on the schedule with that airplane when you expect to fly more specifically and kind of where you are on entering into service I know there was a talk about early 2014? Now you are saying 2014 could you might just give a little bit more a clarity on that? Jr.</strong> Yeah well as I mentioned it’s – we are in final assembly now with the first airplane that’s progressing well getting ready to move to into flight test and right now we are looking at mid next year deliveries.
So progressing well as I mentioned we were obviously just personally out on the airplane and making great progress into the factory getting ready to move in the flight test.
Thanks guys Jr.</strong> Yep.
Our next question is from Julie Johnson from Bloomberg News.
Please go ahead  Hi all.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
A quick 747 question you have netted some news sales recently which is great.
Do you see the program as being sustainable over the long-term without an upturn in either the global cargo market or greater sales activities? Jr.</strong> Well we do see it is a viable long-term program I think it’s significant that we are continuing to get orders in the middle of a down turn which is were we are today.
So as the market normalizes over the next year or two which is what we expect normalizing will put more an additional tailwind behind our order experiences.
So I think the point here is how well we are doing during a downturn.
Okay and then on the 777-X I know launch looks like its going to later this year is it too early to start talking about where the wing will be built and who is potentially in the running for that? Jr.</strong>  Yeah I think it is.
The normal timing for deciding on production placement would be if we did introduce launch in the back half of the year would be anywhere from two to six months after that.
Okay.
So those decisions will be made it sounds like…? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Late this year or early next year? Jr.</strong>  Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> You’re welcome.
And next we’ll go to Dominic Gates Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Dominic.
Good morning.
In the first half of the year as you began to increase production and looked ahead to new development program.
There was a certain amount of surprise here certainly I was surprised by it.
Jr.</strong> Dominic Dominic we didn’t here the first part of your question.
Sorry.
I’m sorry.
Jr.</strong> Yeah yeah just start again.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> There we go there we go.
At the beginning of the year there was – given the increases in production that were happening and the projections for starting new development programs there was a certain amount of surprise in the Puget Sound region when we got some negative employment news and so there was news of cuts in both engineering and cuts in the production workforce and as well as that we have some IT jobs moving news at IT jobs moving.
So now at the midpoint of the year I would like to ask for an update on how you see all that falling out and how it may change for the rest of the year and how do you see employment in the Puget Sound region.
Jr.</strong> Yeah well Don as you mentioned the head count has declined there primarily around the support on the 787 as we’ve made progress coming down that learning curve and transitioning in rates transitioning obviously through the development phases in the higher production rate.
So the efficiency of the production system is driving that.
And then in some of the other areas you mentioned it’s really been about productivity and cost opportunities that we talked about as far as a productivity overall in Defense and in BCA and we’ve made choices there to go to more affordable areas within the business to again drive productivity and profitability and as Jim noted a more for less world that we’re faced with.
Sorry when you say go to more affordable areas within the business what does you mean? Jr.</strong>  Yeah size in areas with where we see lower costs overall cost rates and able to capture those cost and get those into our productivity and again as we’re faced within the Defense environment which is certainly very challenging and then on the commercial side we’re looking at every opportunity we can to continue to drive productivity and profitability throughout the programs.
And so how do you see that can you just update on the projections they had for employment in the future times? Jr.</strong>  Yeah I think at this point I mean I think what you’ve seen today is we peaked out last year and we’re starting to come down this year and we’ll continue with that going forward as we increase rates and continue to look of a productivity improvements.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
Please go ahead.
Hi there on the Heathrow 787 can you say whether Boeing is going to pay for that warranty and conduct a warranty repair or pay for the repair under warranty and pay for it.
And then more big picture can you say sort of where that fits in with your kind of readiness to carry out repair like that I mean is that something that you guys are figuring that you’ll do in house so that more of a contractor thing? How should we think about how future whole repairs will be done on 787? Jr.</strong> Well any whole has get being done okay with lots of customers over and we do have warranty programs that cover a lot of this.
The specific incident you’re talking about I assume was Ethiopian.
Yes.
Jr.</strong> And yeah and we’re in discussions with them right now about how to handle it.
We want to make sure.
They are in agreement with our approach.
We have for the last five or six years we’ve thought about how to repair composite structures when they are damaged.
And we will obviously honor any and all warranty obligations as we do that and typically both we and the carrier have insurance that fact this up.
So if the question eventually gets to financial impacts there will be very little.
Sure.
And there is any repair that that you folks would typically carry out in-house or do you set that to future whole repairs would be done more by third parties? Jr.</strong> I think typically as we introduced new airplanes we disproportionately do the repair.
But over time the industry learns how to do the repair and we work with other maintenance and repair operations because it benefits our customers that decentralize capability around the world.
I think in this case we will have I think SACEPO in this case because it’s a very new model very new airplane type they relay on us disproportionately for the advisor how to handle it? All right thank you.
Jr.</strong>  You’re welcome.
And next we’ll go to Andrew Parker with the Financial Times.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon gentlemen.
Can you hear me okay? Jr.</strong>  Yes Andrew.
Yeah I hear you fine.
And a couple of question to you Mr.
McNerney please.
Jr.</strong>  Yes.
First off could you respond to Airbus’s John Leahy who in the wake of the Heathrow fire said that the Dreamliner was quite not reliable and suggested it was rushed to market.
And he said just equate him precisely it’s pretty obvious this airplane is not reliable and does not have mature systems he said.
And also – could you just give a view you had at least two fires with the Dreamliner this year the one at Boston and then the one at Heathrow.
Do you think if you had another fire incidence and you could avoid crisis at least in public confidence in the plane? Jr.</strong>  I think as to your first question I think even Jon thought that he was – you would have to ask him but my guess is John would feel that he was got carried away with himself which can happen.
But you have to ask him.
As to your second question the reliability of this airplane is about the same as the reliability that we’ve had introducing new models included in the most successful wide-body we’ve ever introduced 777 or about at the same kind of the special liability levels that we had then and there are a lot of things that happened early.
When you look at the data and we monitor public opinion working with our airline customers as to how they feel about Boeing and the 787.
The support for this airplane remains high and as we go through these issues which admittedly I’m not trying to say we want to go through these issues I believe we don’t at all.
But our customers have shown an ability to appreciate a game changing nature of this airplane also to appreciate that safety has been something that has increased overall in this industry dramatically in the last 10 years.
It’s up 10 fold in the last 30 or 40 years.
And I think the public knows that and the regulatory regimes that we go through and the amount of time and effort we invest in safety and redundancy on these airplanes so that even when there is a point of failure there is two or three other systems to back it up.
I think the public hedge seems to understand and appreciate that and so it gets them through some of these well publicized events that really or roughly the same kind of events we had when we introduced new airplanes over time other times other places.
Okay.
And just one quick separate question you were asked about whether you want to get to market share parity on A320neo versus MAX? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
You obviously expressed the view that you think that you can achieve that can you achieve 50/50 there without a price war? Jr.</strong> I think the quick answer is I cannot predict the future point one.
Point two we have a lot of value in this airplane.
And quite frankly we are getting very responsible prices from our customers because we’re delivering lots of value here.
This significantly improves the operating economics of our customers which is not to say that they don’t compare and ask for better pricing in every campaign they do but in the sense that you ask the question I think which is pricing to the place where that destroys or significantly impairs our economics I don't see that.
Okay.
Okay thanks very much.
Jr.</strong> You're welcome Andrew.
And we’ll go to Veronique Dupont with AFP.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
And still on the 787 I wanted to know when you expect to reach profitability when do you think you are going to breakdown as to plane.
And could you give some details on how the discussion for compensations for the earlier this year problems with the batteries of the 787 are going with ANA and with JAL and with other customers? Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Well to answer your first question the program is profitable today and we continue to drive profitability going forward through a lot of things we talked about partnering for success and increasing productivity inside of our factories? And then compensation on the battery there were some instances where we had obligations to customers and those have all been satisfied and you could see by our quarterly results that there was no significant impact to our operations as we work with our customers to remedy situation.
And those are all behind you by now or there are still some matters to be finalized? We think they are all behind us now yeah.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Jr.</strong> Operator we have time for one last question please.
And that will be lwyn Scott from Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me? Jr.</strong> Yes yes.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my question.
What is the estimated timeframe for repair of the Ethiopian Airlines jet to actually get it back in the air and how does that compare with the repair time for the Japan Airlines 787 at Logan in Boston.
Jr.</strong> Well yeah I mean these are very very different situation I means I think the retrofit time on the battery was a couple of days okay.
But wasn’t there some damage fire damage to the hall there or two in Boston? Jr.</strong> Yeah there was not significant structural damage to the hall okay.
That was not something that required a lot of time and effort.
I think the obliviously we had to inspect and check but when you got down to the effort I’ll make sure that we get back to you if I’m a little bit off with this answer.
But I do not recall a significant amount of structural repair if any okay.
Now these Ethiopian airplanes it’s little premature to project what’s the timing might be.
We are in discussion with the Ethiopia.
We want then to be completely comfortable with our approach and those discussions will take another few days weeks and then we’ll be in a better position to give an estimate.
Okay.
How much of the repair do you anticipate would go beyond what has been the repair process that have already been sort of certified as a part of the development program of the 787? Jr.</strong> It’s a little early to speck it.
We obliviously invested a lot of time and effort in repair processes as we developed this new composite technology we feel comfortable that we know how to address this issue and most other structural issues as they arise.
But I don’t want to get out ahead of discussions that are going on where they have very fine customer of Ethiopian and projecting factory the repair they are going to be comfortable with all the time it is going to take.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> All right That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions or we didn’t get to your questions please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introduction I’m turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
I’m Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we’ll take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we’ve provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risks which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Let me begin today with an overview of our business environment and some thoughts on another strong quarter of operating performance.
After that Greg will walk you through our financial results and outlook.
With that let’s turn to Slide 2.
Our overall view of the business environment remains strongly positive given the depth and breadth of our record $415 billion company backlog and our customers continued demand for our efficient and value creating products and services.
During the third quarter commercial airplanes booked 200 net orders that increased our backlog to nearly 4 800 airplanes worth a record $345 billion.
Airline customers continue to replace older airplanes in favor of new ones that offer compelling operating economics and increased fuel efficiency.
In addition many airlines around the world are expanding their fleets to support growth and passenger traffic which further strengthened in recent months.
As a result of this continued strong demand deferral request from customers are running well below the historical average and request to accelerate airplane deliveries continue at a healthy pace.
The air cargo traffic market however remains under pressure and has not improved as quickly as expected.
Softness in this market contributed to steps we took last week to adjust the 747 production rate to 1.5 per month from 1.75 per month beginning in early 2014 and continuing at that rate through 2015.
As the only large freighter on the market the fuel efficient 747-8 remains well positioned to benefit our customers once air cargo traffic conditions improve.
Overall commercial aviation remains a very attractive near and long-term growth market and our strategies have positioned us for a significant and sustained growth in the years ahead.
In addition to affirming our product strategies strong customer interest in our current and future airplane families is driving our planned production rate increases.
On the strength of the growing 90 airplane order book for the new 787-10 that is expected to enter service in 2018 along with the continued demand for the 787-8 and 787-9.
This morning we announced plans to increase 787 production beyond the 10 per month we’re on track to achieve this year to 12 per month in 2016 and then 14 per month before the end of the decade.
The steady deliberate pace of these planned rate breaks builds in stabilization periods that are designed to reduce supply chain risks capture productivity and learning improve profitability and help minimize the investment required to meet the high customer demand for the 787.
On the 777X Lufthansa has announced their intent to place a substantial order for the airplane upon launch illustrates the extensive and growing customer interest in the performance and economic advantages the 777X will offer.
We continue to anticipate market launch of the 777-8X and 777-9X this year the latter of which will be the only twin-aisle twin-engine airplane available in the 400 seat market.
Together our twin-aisle 777X and 787 families will provide customers with more choices that will deliver greater value through market leading innovation and performance than anything the competition is offering.
In the single-aisle market airline interest in our new fuel efficient 737 MAX also remains high with nearly 1 600 cumulative orders to date.
And our demand forecast continue to place upward pressure on the 737 production rates.
As we assess the optimum path forward to meet that demand our team’s relentless focus on additional production system productivity improvements continues unabated.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security the contingency plans we activated during the federal government shutdown were successful in minimizing the impact on our daily operations.
Nevertheless we’re hopeful that the fiscal 2014 budget process will be resolved without further disruption in the weeks ahead.
The congressional mark ups completed prior to the hiatus were relatively favorable to Boeing and our key progress.
However as you may recall neither the President’s budget request nor congressional efforts fully reflect sequestration level of spending caps.
We do remain concerned about the impact that sequestration targets will have on our customers with regards to both military readiness and the industrial base in 2014 and beyond.
Notwithstanding these budget uncertainties our Defense Space &amp; Security portfolio is optimized for the current environment with a reliable proven affordable systems and services that are being delivered on budget and on schedule.
We are targeting our investments in technology and innovation in areas where growth is occurring such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance cyber security and the few but critical future large scale programs identified as priorities by our customer like long range strike U-class and the TX Trainer.
Fueled by our productivity gains these investments are strengthening our position for the long-term and differentiating us from our competitors many of whom have scaled back R&amp;D in this difficult environment capturing a disproportionate share of growing international markets including leveraging our unique one Boeing global advantage is in equal emphasis in our efforts to mitigate domestic market pressures.
International Defense Space &amp; Security business represented 20% of our BDS revenue during the quarter and remains approximately 40% of our current backlog.
We also continue to strengthen our competitive position in all markets by driving further efficiency quality and productivity improvements through our long running market based affordability effort and our partnering for success initiative launched last year.
As many of you recall partnering for success is a long-term effort designed to achieve double-digit improvement in total costs across our supply chain.
It is a collaborative approach for unlocking opportunities in design production and support to drive significant gains in quality flow and efficiencies.
While we’re still at the very early stages of this effort we’re making good progress as many of our suppliers recognized the exciting growth opportunity that's available to those who choose to work with us in providing customers greater value at increasingly lower costs.
Now let's move to a summary of the third quarter on Slide 3.
Our business and core functions delivered yet another strong quarter of financial performance as we reported double-digit revenue growth healthy operating margins and substantial operating cash flow.
Revenue at commercial airplanes was $14 billion and operating margins grew to 11.6% resulting from higher volume and strong operating performance.
We delivered 170 commercial airplanes in the third quarter including 23 787s.
787 production is operating as planned at a rate of seven per month with increasing efficiencies as we approach 10 per month by yearend.
Including October deliveries to-date we have delivered 76 787s to 16 customers.
The fleet is flying an average of 200 flights per day and had nearly 43 000 revenue flights since entering service.
Improving dispatch reliability of the 787 is at the top of our priorities while we're seeing more customer by customer variation than we'd like.
The 787 is – we're making good progress at reducing those dispatch reliability issues and we're working very closely with each and every customer to do that.
While we are not yet satisfied with our fleet-wide performance even though it is around 97% on average we have made some progress implementing a series of component software and spare parts placement improvements but we still have more work to do.
While we are otherwise pleased with the feedback we are receiving from customers about the airplanes' fuel efficiency and other features we will not be satisfied until we are meeting our customers' expectations across the board.
Progress with development of the 787-9 continues on track.
In September we completed a very successful five-hour first flight and the flight test program is well underway.
787-9 production is also progressing nicely with meaningful productivity gains being achieved as we prepare the second aircraft for its first flight and the third and fourth airplane move to production.
As we shared in the second quarter call the 737 MAX reached firm [ph] configuration on schedule in July signaling the start of the program's detailed design phase.
Since that time we have completed an assessment of the final configuration which indicates that the MAX will deliver efficiencies and operating economics that exceed our earlier high expectations making it an even stronger competitor than the marketplace.
Now let's turn to the Defense business.
Defense Space &amp; Security increased revenue in the third quarter by 3% to $8 billion and reported healthy operating margins.
Numerous key contract awards were captured including a $2 billion order from the U.S.
Navy for 13 P-8A Poseidon aircraft and order from Satmex for a second 702SP satellite and an order from the U.S.
Army for 36 Apache helicopters for South Korea.
Noteworthy program milestones included the successful first flight of the unmanned QF-16 with full scale aerial target delivery to the U.S.
Air Force of the fourth GPS 2F satellite the start of flight test on two Boeing EMARSS aircraft and receiving commercial certification of the ScanEagle Unmanned Aircraft System.
Also after successfully finalizing the KC-46 tanker design with the air force in September the first three aircraft are in production at our Everett factory.
We also completed 21 flight tests since August on our advanced Super Hornet fighter as we demonstrated significant stealth and range improvements.
On a bittersweet note I must admit during the quarter we delivered the third C-17 to India and the 223rd and final C-17 to the U.S.
Air Force.
While we made the top but necessary decision to end the C-17 production line in 2015 the program continues to prove itself a strong financial contributor and a model of operational consistency as we shift our focus to deliver the remaining production airplanes to the international market.
In summary our team is executing to our business strategies and achieving desired outcomes.
We delivered a strong quarter of financial results in both businesses reached major program milestones and captured orders totaling $27 billion.
We also returned cash and increased value to shareholders which Greg will discuss in just a moment.
Now I will turn it over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg? Thanks Jim.
Good morning.
Let's turn to Slide 4 and we'll discuss our results for the quarter.
Third quarter revenue increased 11% to $22.1 billion driven by strong commercial airplane deliveries and solid growth in our Defense business.
Core operating margins increased to 9.7% in the quarter primarily driven by higher commercial airplane deliveries lower R&amp;D and solid productivity gains at both businesses.
Core earnings per share increased 16% to a $1.80 in the quarter on higher revenue and continued strong operating performance in both commercial airplanes and Defense Space &amp; Security businesses.
Let's discuss commercial airplanes on Slide 5.
For the third quarter our commercial airplane business increased revenue 15% to $14 billion on a 170 airplane deliveries and produced strong operating margins of 11.6%.
Higher commercial airplane operating margins were driven by delivery volume and strong core operating performance across the business.
Gross inventory for the company included $31.5 billion related to the 787 program an increase in the third quarter of approximately $1.2 billion.
This increase was primarily driven by higher inventory in support of the planned production rate increases later in the year and the introduction of the 787-9 program.
Included in the working process inventory are the deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the 787 program was $20.2 billion at the end of the third quarter and includes approximately 58 airplanes still in process.
Since the fourth quarter of last year we've seen roughly 50% to 60% improvement in deferred production costs associated with the 787-8 and we anticipate further improvement in unit costs through our continued focus on driving productivity.
As I previously stated assessing the 787 progress by analyzing deferred production on a per unit basis was useful and informative early on in the program.
However now given the different stages of the program maturity learning increased flow with 787-9 production and investments now to support the higher production rates as well as the inclusion of the 787-10 this quarter metric at a summary level is no longer a good reflection of the overall program performance.
Obviously we remain focused on the progress on a daily basis model by model and unit by unit and we will continue to discuss our key relative performance we indicated that do reflect productivity and overall program performance such as the improvements in flow time traveled work and unit hours as well as progress on upcoming rate breaks and deliveries.
Due to the successful launch of the 787-10 program with 90 firm orders and consistent with accounting guidelines we extended the accounting quantity of the 787 program by 200 units to 1 300 airplanes in total.
Program margins now include investments to support the 787-10 introduction and production rates of 12 per month in 2016 and then 14 per month before the end of the decade.
Despite these investments and considerations for risk the 787 program is capturing value which is reflected in the improved program gross margin.
We now anticipate deferred production to peak at approximately $25 billion by 2014 and then moderate at that level before beginning to decline shortly after we complete the transition to 12 per month.
The higher deferred production balance is driven by the additional flow and learning associated with the 787-10 introduction and additional rate increases as well as investments to further optimize the production system improving flow and increasing long-term program profitability.
The deferred production balance is now expected to decline at a faster pace given the higher production rates as we capture efficiencies by optimizing our production system.
We continue to remain focused on driving 787 productivity and successfully achieving our plan rate breaks which will ultimately drive value for all the stakeholders.
Commercial airplanes captured $20 billion in orders during the quarter and increased backlog to a new record of $345 billion for 4 787 aircrafts.
Customer demand for our game-changing fuel efficient airplanes remain strong as illustrated by the additional 136 737 MAX orders and 49 787 orders in the quarter.
Now let’s turn to Defense Space &amp; Security results on Slide 6.
Third quarter revenue at our Defense business increased 3% to $8 billion and operating margins were 8.4% driven by a mix and one time charges on the F-15 program and for costs associated with the C-17 plant shutdown.
Defense segment operating margins were 9.4% excluding these charges.
International customers accounted for 20% of our defense revenue in the third quarter and we continue to drive towards our goal of 30% of revenue going forward.
As a result of our continued focus on productivity and driving market based affordability we have reduced our cost structure at BDS by an additional $1 billion now bringing the total reduction to approximately $4 billion.
We’re also on track for further reductions in an effort to increase productivity and strengthen our competitive position in this challenging environment.
Revenue at Boeing Military Aircraft was $3.5 billion in the third quarter primarily driven by lower volume and timing on C-17 and F-15 programs.
Operating margins were 6.2% due to the mix in the onetime charges on the F-15 and C-17 program.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenue of $2.2 billion increased 9% primarily driven by higher sales of delta inventory and revenue on Space Launch Systems program.
Operating margin were 8.7% in the quarter.
Global Services &amp; Support had third quarter revenues at $2.3 billion and solid operating margins of 11.4%.
Defense Space &amp; Security reported a solid backlog of $70 billion and International business was 38% of our current backlog representing customers outside the United States.
Turning now to Slide 7; the Boeing Capital net financing portfolio remained unchanged at $4.1 billion other segment income improved by $118 million primarily driven due to a insurance recovery settlement.
Unallocated expense from core operations of $226 million was higher primarily due to an increase in deferred compensation expense driven by higher stock price and overall stock market performance.
Now turning to cash flow on Slide 8.
Operating cash flow before pension contributions for the third quarter was $4.3 billion.
The strength of our cash flow was driven by higher volumes strong operating performance and favorable timing of receipts and expenditures.
While we aggressively look for opportunities to reduce future pension liabilities we continue to be proactive and manage the funded status as we’ve made a plan $1.5 billion discretionary pension contribution in the quarter.
As a result of our strong performance and execution of our balance cash deployment strategy we paid $400 million dividend to shareholders and repurchased $7.6 million shares for $800 million in the third quarter bringing year-to-date repurchases to $1.8 billion and we now expect 2013 share repurchase will exceed $2 billion.
Moving to cash and debt balances on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $15.9 billion of cash and marketable securities and our cash position continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Our financial strength allows us to continue to invest in key growth areas of the business return cash to shareholders and execute our balance cash deployment strategy.
Let’s now turn to Slide 10 and I’ll discuss our outlook for 2013.
Due to the strong performance through the first three quarter and improved outlook for the balance of the year we’re increasing our 2013 core earnings per share guidance to now be between $6.50 and $6.65 per share.
Revenue guidance for the year is unchanged they’re between $83 billion and $86 billion and we still expect 787 deliveries to be greater than 60 this year.
Commercial airplane operating margin guidance is increased to be greater than 10% on improved operating performance and lower R&amp;D.
We expect fourth quarter margins to be influenced by dilution from the 787 deliveries higher R&amp;D primarily associated with the 737 MAX and timing of supplier payments along with increased investments associated with higher deliveries and production rates.
With our continued focus on development program execution we now expect total research and development spending for 2013 to be approximately $3.2 billion or $100 million lower than our previous guidance.
Operating cash flow before pension contributions guidance for the year is increased $500 million to now be greater than $8.5 billion.
Overall third quarter performance continued to deliver strong results as we remain focused on production program execution and profitability rate ramp up and ongoing productivity improvements in both commercial and the defense business.
And as we look ahead to 2014 we expect the strong core operating performance to continue.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Greg.
With three strong quarters behind us we remain committed to the goals we initially set for 2013.
This includes the continued conversion of our record backlog into deliveries through strong core operating performance that allows us to return cash to shareholders while investing wisely in our products technologies and people to sustain our growth and competitiveness.
Our priorities going forward remain clear.
The profitable ramp up in production on our commercial airplane programs executing on our Commercial and Defense development programs driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen and reposition our Defense business with investments in growth areas amid further international expansion and importantly providing increasing value to both our customers and our shareholders.
With that said we’d now be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen and good quarter.
Good morning Carter.
Jr.</strong> Thank you good morning.
I’ll apologize in advance for what might be a complex question but Greg I was hoping you could help me clarify some of the moving pieces you talked about on the 87 the $25 billion production deferred production peak that then declines at a faster pace maybe if you could help clarify what's driving the near term costs up and the long-term costs down presumably that’s higher rate and mix on the long-term stuff.
And then related if you can just verify for me the pieces of the program accounting that got influenced in the block and influenced the gross margin in the quarter.
I think it’s rate changes the inclusion of the -10 and the mix and then if you could clarify did you extend the block at all? Any help on any of those would be great.
Okay yeah sounds good.
So on the higher deferred balances I mentioned that the increase you’re seeing there is really the additional flow time as you bring in the -10 as well as learning associated with that and then as well as investments that we’re making to further optimize the production system and improve the flow and obviously improve the long-term profitability.
So just a couple of examples there.
In Charleston our [inaudible] facility you see we reconfigured the entire flow there or we’re in the middle of doing that and that will again drive profitability increase flow and allow us to get to these higher rates in a much more efficient manner.
On the final line in Everett same thing we added another line or sorry a position within the line where we’re doing the wing body joint earlier in the process and this is through experience after 134 airplanes the teams are really coming up with better ideas or improvements on how to increase flow and that’s going to require some upfront investment but obviously in the units to come after we’ll see that improvement again in flow and productivity.
So that’s kind of what you’re seeing in the increase in the near-term deferred production.
The burn off is just what you said is really driven by the improvement in adding the – certainly adding in the 787-10 the rate on the 12 and the 14 and that's what's allowing us to burn that off at a faster pace on the backend.
And on the things that changed in the block? Yes things that changed in the block we added in the 200 units.
Obviously the 787-10 coming in there as well as the investments to build the 787-10 are also included in that.
And then net-net that was an improvement in the overall gross margin of the program.
Okay thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I bet you thought you were done with 787 questions… Jr.</strong> I knew I wasn't done Howard.
Not with you on the line Howard.
Well in any event just to kind of follow-up partly on that and it's more to Jim's point.
Can you talk a little bit more about the initiatives that you have undertaken to improve dispatch reliability? First I noticed the reliabilities ticked up a bit.
And then second how are you incorporating those improvements into the line? And then related to that as we look forward there's clearly some costs this year that should go away next year.
Can you ballpark that please? Jr.</strong> I'll let Greg answer the costs but I'll answer all the rest.
Yes I mean we are seeing improvement.
I mentioned the fleet average of 97% or so dispatch reliability but while we are seeing improvement we're not pleased yet.
Number one we want to go higher and number two we still have some customers that aren't at that level.
And so we're worried about them.
We know that we have a lot to do to help them improve and it's on us to help them improve.
So to your point we're putting people we're putting spares we're doing some engineering changes at the component level to increase reliability.
We've addressed some software issues.
Software false messaging is roughly a third of the issue here and that is frustrating for us and very frustrating for our customers.
So there's some software as well as hardware component issues and it's an all hands on deck customer by customer working very closely with our customers to drive the fleet average even higher but more importantly to get those customers who are below the average up to the average and higher.
So we want to get everybody higher and it's a big effort.
But when you add it all up steady improvement.
And then costs it will go away I think … Yes Howard.
I think when you look at the fleet support associated with this and going into next year we kind of see it a little bit flattish.
We'll have more customers obviously introduced on the 787 and we'll continue to just provide the support at the levels that Jim just described.
Having said that we'll offset some of that with some of the other areas of fleet support.
So net-net as I see it today it's kind of flattish going into next year but something we'll obviously remain very focused on and as I said trying to offset some of the maybe increases we may have on 87 with some of the other programs across the board.
Thank you very much.
Next we'll go to Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Hi Doug.
I like to shift gears a little bit and get to the Partnering for Success initiative and I like to understand how it's progressing and particularly if you look across the supply chain whether it's U.S.
Japan Europe you've got a number of suppliers that I would say are pretty much locked in or may view it that way locked in on your programs for many years to come.
So when you look at this now how do you prevent a situation where they feel there are locked in and they could raise prices or just not lower them? How do you get leverage over them? And if you do make progress is that still incremental upside to the margins that you're talking about today? Jr.</strong> Well Doug I think this program does have potential to increase our margins.
And leverage comes in a lot of different ways.
The biggest way is joint success.
I think as long as we do our job which is to build and design the right airplanes and market them effectively and our winning in the marketplace which is what we're trying to do in each and every campaign and if our suppliers have faith in that which is really fundamental here then the tactics of coming in-house with something or switching suppliers if someone doesn't want to work with us the tactics become less important.
There's plenty of work to re-compete with all these new models Doug so those tactics are available to us.
But I think a lot of them see the increased business we can do together if we – if they drive as hard on productivity and cost reduction as we are.
I mean we are trying to lead by example here.
The flow time reductions we've had in our factories the hours per unit the productivity per whatever are increasing significantly on all of our programs.
It is a major priority for us.
Market-based affordability within the Defense business is a superstar example of dealing with a very very difficult situation and we're absolutely committed to that.
We're just asking our suppliers to work with us on the same basis.
And by the way I made the point in my remarks that we're still in early days but I'd say the majority of our suppliers are working with us.
They see this big opportunity if we can get the product right and the cost right in a more for less world.
And is the effort you've got underway now is that still incremental to the margins say the 11% type margin that you have today? Jr.</strong> I think it will be – our margins in the future will be a lot better than they would have been if we hadn't embarked on this program let's start with that.
Now a more for less world is going to demand increasingly lower prices from us.
So exactly how does economic gain gets used to make us more competitive in the marketplace whether it's – I doubt whether it would be all margins or all price but I feel confident and it's our objective to have the best margins of – and for our suppliers to have the best margins of anyone in the marketplace.
Now whether we can achieve that objective remains to be seen but that's the objective we have in front of us.
Okay thank you.
Jr.</strong> All right Doug.
Next we'll go to Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
So a quick question as well on BCA margins going back to what Jim just said but I want to start with Greg.
Greg on the gross margin for 787 you've been I guess just above the zero level.
That's been a longstanding margin assumption and we always know that you'd address that so that apparently happened here.
Can you give us some sense can you quantify where you are on the margin now post the block extension and the latest learning curve assumptions? Yes I mean I'll tell you that obviously extending this block as I said earlier did improve the overall gross margin.
We're still at very low single digit and we're looking to drive that.
It's obviously continued making progress internally on productivity but obviously a big priority of Partnering for Success is 787.
So we're working our way through that and trying to drive that gross margin up even higher.
But net-net we included the investments to the 787-10 and with the extension ended up in a net-net improvement overall in gross margin.
So that segues into what I wanted to ask Jim which is at what point at what inning are we in Partnering for Success and what future inning would you be able to readdress the gross margin on 787? Jr.</strong> Well I mean it's early innings whether it's the second inning or the third inning I can't tell you and we'll play extra innings if we have to just to keep it in perspective.
Listen I think the margin improvement is not just on the 787 although obviously that is where a lot of our effort is focused.
But this effort is focused on every program we have in the company on every service we have in the company.
It's focused on non-production procurement.
In other words the $12 billion or $13 billion of stuff we buy that doesn’t go into our product’s that goes into G&amp;A budgets some place there’s a huge opportunity there.
So I think this is -- the point would be across the board.
The point will be second or third inning.
I think also the point would be where it's already beginning to impact some 787 costs as well as those in other programs but we still have a long way to go here.
And so declaring any form of victory at this stage would not be appropriate.
I think displaying to you confidence that we’re off to a good start is appropriate and that’s the way we feel and that’s what we’re seeing.
And Greg is there a moment in time now in the future where you would readdress the margins? I think what you’re going to see Rob is you’re just going to see kind of this coming gradually over time as we work our way through these with some of our suppliers.
As Jim noted some of these may take a little bit longer but that’s really working along with that supplier and finding an ultimate solution for both of us that provide the profitability or the tarp meeting our target objectives that we laid out for them at the same time allowing them to become more efficient.
So that maybe that you wanting to build a few more units and come down the learning curve and thus work with them.
So I think you’re just going to see it gradually come in.
You’ve seen some of that benefit in the results today particularly on some of the defense programs and around 737 and 777 so this is kind of gradual as we go through each one of these but we’ve got a good cadence and pace and we just had the Top 20 in here again a couple of weeks ago and continuing to work through the operating rhythm and it's all about us working together to become more efficient and more effective on all of our programs within the supply chain and obviously at the core here.
So we’re continuing to march along and I think you’ll see that again over time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Joe.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Joe.
Just on the margins real quick you noted that 787 was up a little bit.
Is partnering for success having any positive impact yet on the either 737 or 777 gross margin? Yes.
And then just secondly Greg on the deferred production I hear you’re in that there’s a lot of other moving parts and it's harder to gauge on a unit basis what's going on now.
But this is a very very important metric and transparency here is important for us all to understand how you’re dealing and so if we can’t use that what can we use to track your progress? Okay let me answer your last question first.
You’re right it's absolutely important and it's something that we’re very focused on.
As I said on a day-to-day basis model-by-model we track our performance against what we have in our plan.
But when you look at an aggregate level as you know now with the mix of -9 in there investments for -10 is one.
When you’re looking at deferred per unit it's not an accurate depiction and it was when you were just building -8.
So as far as looking from the outside in again we’re going to continue to give you some clarity on where we’re making operational improvements on the program that’s ultimately effective for production and overall performance of the program.
Certainly deliveries watching our deliveries and we give you a good guidance on that our rate breaks.
And then as well as flow timing unit cost projection and that in combination again that really ends up driving that deferred.
So that’s kind of what we’ll continue to do Joe and I think those are very good solid indicators of progress.
On partnering for success the short answer is yes.
I mean you’ve seen on the 737 and 777 in particular improvements brought into those as we increase the profitability in there or offset some initial pricing on MAX or end of line NG’s that’s being offset by partnering for success that was our objective.
But as Jim said we’re still in the second or third innings.
So we got still a long way to go.
But you are starting to see progress there and again I think you’ll see that over time as we make progress with each one of our suppliers by program.
Greg I hate to do it but on the $25 billion is it possible to quantify how much of that is -10’s we’re so many years away.
I know you guys are busy at work but it's so many years away from really putting a lot of money into the production of that aircraft and how much of the $25 billion or the increase here really is -10 versus the other investments you mentioned? Yeah we’re certainly getting rate to ‘12 is the big part of that investment as well as the optimization in some of the other areas of the factory I talked about.
That’s certainly a bigger element of it and then as it goes further on that’s where you’ll start to see -10.
But as we’re looking at rate going to ‘12 we’re obviously making investments for ‘14 at the same time.
So we’re trying to be very efficient with our resources inside and with the supply chain to make sure we’re making the right strategic investments on the program and make sure we’re fully utilizing our resources as we build our way into ‘10.
So if there’s opportunities to minimize some of that investment going from ‘12 to ‘14 we’re going to do that.
So we’re pretty active obviously internally and working with our suppliers.
And then again you’re going to see the deferred coming down at I’d say a steeper decline than you would have prior and that’s all driven by the higher deliveries and improved unit cost in the outer years.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
We’ll go to Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Greg I was wondering if I could ask you a couple of questions on the BCA margin.
Your guidance suggests that are quite significantly in the fourth quarter you gave some factors behind that.
I was wondering if you could help us at maybe in sizing what these issues could be in the fourth quarter and perhaps also maybe if there were some one off positives in the third quarter that’s making that comparison sequentially tough? Yeah I think what you’ll see in the fourth quarter is we are expecting R&amp;D to tick up a little bit there along around 737 MAX and some supplier payments that you didn’t see in the third quarter.
Obviously on a margin basis we’ll have to do more dilution on the deliveries and then some higher period expense really driven by investments in some productivity tools for us to become more efficient near term and long-term and then a little bit more on the fleet support side as we have more airplanes and new customers going into service will ensure that we’ve got the right amount of people and parts and components in place to focus on the reliability that Jim talked about earlier but that’s primarily what's driving that but we’re going to continue to obviously manage those costs very tightly as we move into the fourth quarter but that’s what we’re seeing as I sit here today.
We’re going to need one off positives in the third quarter that won't be repeating themselves.
No nothing that really stands out.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
You are welcome.
And we’ll go to Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes good performance.
Thank you Cai.
So it looks like the margin before R&amp;D in period expense improved pretty nicely versus the second quarter.
You mentioned the 787 as higher gross margins were the gross margins on the 37 and 777 higher sequentially? Yeah we had improvements on the 737 I’d say 777 was about flat and then a slight improvement on the 787 as I talked about and then of course the lower R&amp;D.
Those are really the big drivers Cai.
Okay.
And then you mentioned this $25 billion do you reach that early in the year or late in the year and then what are the implications for cash flow you have this massive increase in excess advances.
Everyone just kind of thought cash flow gets better as we move forward.
Do you have a pause in cash flow next year as the deferred go up and maybe the excess advances don’t build those dramatically? Yeah I think Cai you’re going to continue to see strong cash flow and that’s obviously driven by the higher deliveries and the advances associated with that as you look further out on the 737 or even on the 787 so we still expect strong cash flow.
On the deferred I talked about kind of what's driving that and we’ll continue to manage that but that’s all really preparing us for growth going forward and doing that in the most efficient way possible and we’ll continue to again optimize our capital and tooling and resources required to do that.
But I still expect strong cash flow for the company and from BCA as a result of some of the earlier things I mentioned.
And then to the question when you’re going to peek at the $25 billion is that early or late in the year? Yeah it's kind of tied to the 12 per month so we kind of hit around 25 in kind of '15 timeframe and then we kind of moderate.
And then as we get to 12 a month is when you start to see that come down and that's in 2016.
Thank you.
Jr.</strong> You're welcome.
Our next question is from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning Jim and Greg.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning Peter.
Just a follow-up on I guess the cash flow question really Greg.
I'm talking about capital deployment.
You bought back another close to 800 million in this quarter and you've kind of already achieved your commitment for this year and you're going to exceed 2 billion.
How do we think about kind of the continuation of that sizing it or how you're thinking about capital deployment going forward? Yes.
Well as you know we were out of the market in the first quarter so we got back in in the second quarter and third quarter.
So year-to-date at that 1.8 and we're going to continue to execute our balance cash deployment strategy as we continue to perform and reach our milestones in the company.
So you'll continue to see us make progress in that area going forward.
Can we expect a similar kind of cap that you did last year establishing then for the end of the year for next year or you'll wait until yearend? We'll give you more clarity next year as we close out the fourth quarter on the fourth quarter call.
But it's a big priority for us and we're staying focused on deploying cash to shareholders.
We'll go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Jim I was hoping you could talk a bit about your vision for where aftermarket could be in terms of Boeing's ability to capture more the value the lifecycle tail of the products and maybe in particular what kind of hooks you're implanting on the 777-X so that that can be realized? Obviously you're doing a couple of things in 737 MAX and then also an update on GoldCare? Jr.</strong> Yes.
We have two big – I guess your question more relates to the commercial side of our business.
It does yes.
Jr.</strong> Yes okay.
We are mindful of the lifecycle costs and revenues associated with decisions we make on these programs and I think you're right on both the 737 MAX and the 777-X.
We are thinking harder about that issue and leaning forward more than perhaps we did on the 787 to use your characterization some hooks and handles.
And we're doing that primarily to serve our customers better.
I think more integrated solutions either at the technical level or at the commercial level which would be GoldCare which I'll get to in a second are increasingly in demand by our customers.
So we're trying to respond to that.
GoldCare we're off to a start with GoldCare.
We have a number of our customers that we now have on the program and others we're in discussions with.
And we're trying to be sure to execute well with GoldCare.
So we're going one customer at a time as they need it.
We're trying to keep our feet underneath with the partners associated with us at GoldCare as well as our own technology but I characterize it as off to a good start.
Did you characterize your aftermarket exposure able to grow in line with your sales growth? Jr.</strong> Yes.
I didn't comment on the kinds of information-based technology and other technology that we want to invest in in concert with the kind of spares volume that your question more alluded to.
I think when you combine that with the increased investment in technical solutions for our customers that are more helping them operate the planes in real-time more efficiently I think the combination of those two over the long term will have us growing at at least the rate of our base business and hopefully more.
Great.
Thanks.
Jr.</strong> Yes.
Operator we have time for one more question.
That will be from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Jason you're line is open.
Possibly you're on mute.
I'm sorry about that.
Hi Jim.
Greg just a quick clarification and one for Jim.
The clarification question the deferred production it builds to 25 billion until 2015 then we get the cash breakeven at some point in the back half of the year and it starts to wind down and we burn through the deferred inventory starting at 2016 I just want to make sure that cadence is really clear.
Yes that's right.
Okay great.
And then Jim on the tanker you mentioned that the design's locked down.
Can you give us an update on your comforts now that that design is locked down with that program and what you view to be the key risks now that you have that design locked down? Jr.
</strong> Well let me answer that while you take a look at the numbers.
I think obviously I'll use our customers' words which is that they have great confidence in both the design review we recently had with them over the summer and the follow-on review that we had and I feel exactly the same way.
I think we're in good shape with configuration and design.
I think like in all programs when you get into the detailed design of a couple of the systems there's still some issues to wrestle it through.
I would characterize that as highly normal.
I would not characterize it as abnormal.
And I think the real risk if I were looking at this from your perspective the real risk now shifts from design to production and the integration associated with production.
And as I mentioned we've got the first three airplanes in work and we will see early any issues that are associated with production and integration.
So I think we're – or think you compare this to many other programs this one is in very good shape.
Okay.
And then Greg can you confirm that at some point in 2015 we're breakeven for a couple of quarters before winding down right? Yes.
That's exactly it.
It will start to – it will moderate and then start to come down in late '15 early '16 really driven by the higher production rates.
Okay thanks.
You're welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
For the members of the media (Operator Instructions).
I will now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
Certainly.
We'll go to Doug Cameron with The Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Jim obviously commercial orders stretch again to the far [blue yonder].
Bit of a different story if you looked at parts of BDS and particularly on the attack aircraft side where there's a lot of ifs and buts and maybes about keeping something like the F-18 line going.
When do you start having to be more proactive with the Pentagon and saying and basically asking them if they want to keep competition in U.S.
attack aircraft they have to give you something if not at least more clarity about orders going forward? I've also got a follow-up.
Jr.</strong> Sure.
I think the – I don't want to speak for our customer but I think it's fair to say that our Pentagon customer would also like more clarity.
I mean I think we are in daily discussions with them about requirements associated with our technology and others and I think until the whole budget situation clarifies and I think the Pentagon is not clear either on exactly how that's going to sort out and that's because it is largely in the hands of the legislature right now I think it's unclear but I am confident that given a reasonable solution to the budget environment that the technology we've got will continue to be in demand.
Now could there be a draconian budget outcome that impacts Boeing and many others by the way? I don't think it would disproportionately impact Boeing.
But that is – you've seen the Perils of Pauline in Washington so there could be an outcome that is much more difficult.
But I think reasonable outcomes that the pundits [ph] predict would suggest continued demand for most of our products.
Given the uncertainty in the defense side and what’s happening in the commercial side when did you start to get uncomfortable the relative shares of BDS versus commercial? Jr.</strong> Well I think the fact that commercial is growing faster than BDS right now is a good thing.
I mean it reflects that our strategy of diverse market positions in both the commercial defense and space arenas are underpinned by technical geographic and other kinds of synergies across all of the businesses.
It says that it’s working.
I mean I think I’m less concerned about commercial growing too fast.
And so I think the basis of synergies which is what makes the business model work is still intact even if one side for an extended period of time grows a lot faster than the other side.
It was only eight years ago that the Defense Space &amp; Security side of our business was growing much faster than the commercial side now is getting questions the other way.
So I mean its -- I don’t think we’re anywhere near the point where I think the business model is called into question.
Our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Yes just a follow-up on that last line of questioning.
I’m just curious where -- what your thinking is with regards to mergers potentially to offset some of the programs like C-17 that are in sort of the twilight years? Jr.</strong> Yes.
I mean I think we’re a company that has and continues to rely on organic growth or its long-term sustainment which is not to say that we don’t entertain acquisitions from time-to-time.
We’ve made a number of small ones in the services area and in the vertical areas in our defense business that we called out as needing some supplementation and you will continue to see that.
But I think the answer to our future more lies in our ability to grow ourselves than anything else and fortunately we’ve a broad enough business model as was surfaced in the last question that when parts of our business are flat or down other parts of our business are growing and that’s by design.
Next we have Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jim.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Dominic.
You spoke about the investments by Boeing that are baked into that $25 billion of deferred production to support the rate increases to ’12 and ’14 on the 87.
But you guys are holding the strings of a huge global partnership so your partners in Italy Japan and also Spirit in Kansas also have to increase their production risk? Have you … Hey Dominic you’re cutting out pretty badly.
Jr.</strong> Dominic yes we can’t hear you.
Can you come back at that again? All right.
Can you hear me any better now? Jr.</strong> Here we go.
Would you mind saying it again Dominic? We couldn’t hear you.
All right.
Well I was asking about Boeing has baked into its $25 billion deferred production number the investments you need to increase the rate on 787 to ’12 and then ’14.
But you’ve also -- I just want to ask about the situation with your partners around the world in Japan in Italy in Kansas with Spirit they also must invest to increase the rate.
So have you nailed on the investments from your partners? Is there any Boeing support involved there? And also is partnering for success -- has partnering for success allowed you when you reach the stage of increasing the rate to improve the contract terms with those partners? Jr.</strong> Yes.
I mean I think yes we’re working very closely with our partners as we take up rate.
And I think we probably would not announce that we are taking up rate unless we had a high degree of confidence that our business arrangements would be at least as good with them as they are now.
And quite frankly we’ve a lot of growth to offer them.
I mean -- and so as I mentioned earlier that’s the basis of the partnering for success program and that is the success of Boeing products and services.
So it’s not that we are jamming something down their throats it’s that we are offering them growth and together we should search for productivity to take advantage of that growth.
That’s the spirit with which we’re approaching our partners.
And so I think that -- gets at the spirit of your question.
Our next question is from Jon Ostrower with the Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Jon.
A question for Greg on the $25 billion deferred production figure.
Just thinking about all the changes that you’ve made in your factories over really in the last 18 months or so [58%] on a month the expansion of Charleston fuselage the new positions in Everett which you mentioned earlier but those are really designed as far as I understand is to get to 10 per month and obviously a $5 billion increase in deferred production is pretty significant jump when you think about that.
Can you break through what that additional 5 billion is in terms of your overall cost? It seems like that jump is mostly related to just building more units over a constant period of time.
Well they’re certainly -- that is part of it but the optimization some of the points I made were not just solely reflected on getting to 10 a month.
There was a headset certainly because of our backlog and the demand of the airplane in anticipation of -10 launch.
So how do we fully optimize that even beyond -10? So that’s where you’re seeing investments may be near-term on going to -10 but with a headset of more looking at improving flow at any rate ’12 or ’14.
So that’s -- yes that’s primarily what you’re seeing there.
But you’re right I mean there is certainly the upfront investments to again further optimize the current production system in anticipation but also the investments to get to 12 a month our another increase in there.
So that’s really the biggest drivers in the deferred production.
And as I said we are optimizing those investments and continue to refine them but it’s obviously -- net-net is a good thing because we are supporting a higher production rate and strong demand for this airplane and we are continuing to focus on productivity and efficiency at the same time.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media please? That will be from Andrew Parker with The Financial Times.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Can you hear me okay? Jr.</strong> Yes Andrew.
Loud and clear.
Hi.
Couple of questions please.
Just a clarification on your shareholder remuneration I think you said on the call with the analyst that you’re going exceed the $2 billion for your buyback in 2013.
You’ve got a large cash balance so can you give any insight into what your thinking is the next year? And then secondly Airbus have this notable contract win with Japan Airlines with the A350.
Mr.
McNerney what sort of lessons have you learned from that and do you think because they have obviously broken into the market in a significant way for the first time in Japan and in particular whether you think the Airbus success was at least partly to do with the issues you’ve had with the Dreamliner? Jr.</strong> Well as to JAL I will answer that one first and you can answer the numbers question.
I think obviously that’s a campaign that we did not want to lose.
We’ve fought hard Airbus fought hard.
I can’t speak for them -- for JAL and why they choose the other airplane knowing the JAL folks I’m sure the reasons were good ones.
This is a customer that we’ve served for many many years and we will continue to serve for many many more.
I think we’ll take this as a sign to re-double our efforts.
I’d note during the time of this loss that we made some major progress in Europe with Lufthansa with the 777X which in the minds of some is an analogous situation but back to JAL we’ll take it as a sign to do better and work harder with one of our great customers.
On the share repurchase obviously this deploying our cash is a top priority for us in returning cash to shareholders and we are -- as you think about us going forward we're going to continue to have a balanced approach.
And as we continue to perform and reduce risk we are going to continue to deploy our cash accordingly.
Plus or minus on an annual basis we kind of targeted 80% of our free cash flow returning to shareholders and I think that's probably a good barometer to think about as you look at us executing on our cash flow going forward.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Good day and welcome to the Boeing Company’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I am turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in today’s press release and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning.
Let me begin today with some comments on our strong operating performance and strategic progress in 2013 followed by an overview of the business environment we see moving into 2014.
After that Greg will walk you through the details of our financial results and outlook.
Now let’s move to Slide 2.
Strong fourth quarter results across our company capped the year of outstanding core operating performance and significant business achievement for our team.
We successfully delivered on our strategies to convert our record backlog into profitable growth executed well on commercial and defense development programs and drove productivity and affordability gains throughout our business and enterprise functions.
For the full year we reported record revenue and earnings improved operating margins increased cash flow a large portion of which was return to shareholders and we reached our highest product backlog ever now totaling $441 billion on net orders from $135 billion.
We also continue to retire legacy business risks including settling the longstanding A-12 litigation with U.S.
government that dated back to 1991.
Our commercial airplanes business reported record revenue of $53 billion for the year on an industry record 648 total deliveries including the highest ever deliveries for the 737 777 and 787 programs.
We successfully executed our planned production rate increases and expanded our market share leadership in deliveries that we regained in 2012.
In a strong year for orders across the industry we captured record gross orders of 1531 airplanes and net orders of 1355 airplanes which increased our backlog to 5080 jets with a record $374 billion.
Commercial airplanes also achieved key development milestones in 2013 including firm configuration of the 737 MAX-8 and to start our flight testing of the 737 MAX-9 and we solidified our long term market leadership in the high value twin-aisle segment with record orders and commitments in launching both the 787-10 and 777X.
On the other side of our business despite continued domestic budget headwinds and tough global competition Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security also had a very strong year with revenue of $33 billion on increased deliveries of aircraft and satellites higher operating margins significant program wins and clear progress in further improving productivity and increasing our competitive position.
Key contract awards captured during the fourth quarter included a $750 million order from the U.S.
airforce for engineering services on the B-1 bomber fleet a multi-year service support contract for the B22 and an option exercise by Inmarsat for a fourth satellite.
Noteworthy program milestones in the quarter included fuselage and wing joint on the first KC-46 tanker.
The P-8A achieving initial operating capability within 10 days by the way of a target established more than 10 years ago and successfully launching the first Inmarsat-5 satellite.
Strong operational performance throughout the year driven by our relentless focus on business execution and competitiveness increasing cash flow and our confidence in the future all supported the new $10 billion share repurchase authorization and 50% increase in the dividend we announced in December.
In summary 2013 was truly a milestone year for Boeing.
Thanks to the tremendous effort of our employees our partners and our customers all around the world.
With record revenue in earnings substantial cash generation and progress on our path to continued growth and profitability through product rate increases execution on development programs increased productivity and further growth in our record backlog we strengthened our market position and our outlook for the future.
With that let’s turn to the business environment on slide 3.
Global customer demand for our fuel efficient and value creating commercial airplane family remains high.
As evidenced by the 508 net orders booked during the fourth quarter and 30 added so far this month.
Global passenger traffic trends are strong.
Air cargo traffic is gradually improving and appears more stable than we have seen over the past year.
Recent 747-8 Freighter orders from Cathay Pacific Airways and Silk Way Airlines highlight the airplanes superior value proposition and potential as market conditions improve in the cargo area.
The placement of older airplanes in fare of new models that offer compelling operating economics and increased fuel efficiency continues at a healthy pace.
Many airline customers around the world also are expanding their fleets to support the ongoing growth in passenger traffic.
Deferral request from customers are still running well below historical average while request to accelerate deliveries continue at a steady and quite frankly encouraging rate.
Overall commercial aviation remains a very attractive near and long term growth market and our product strategic advantage continues to position us for significant and sustained growth.
Launch of the 777X accepted to buy airshow was the largest launch by dollar value in commercial jetliner history.
With commitments in firm orders totaling 259 for this game changing fuel efficient family of airplanes.
The airplanes all new composite wing flight deck and flight controls leverage technologies developed on the 787 and provide customers with unprecedented operating economics.
We’re pleased that our employees who are members of the International Association of Machinists &amp; Aerospace Workers 751 ordered to extend their contract from 2016 to 2024.
This solidifies production for the 777X in the Puget Sound region within our broadened geographic production and engineering footprint.
In an environment where customer expectations for quality reliability and affordability have never been higher contract extension ensures 10 years of business continuity and further improves our productivity and competitiveness while still also providing our workforce highly competitive wages and benefits.
With the firm backlog for our current 777 family of more than 300 airplanes coupled with strong customer demand and airplane availability this decade we have high confidence in the successful transition to the 777X.
777 is an outstanding performer and a valuable asset.
Based on buying patterns among wide-body customers we expect the production bridge to be filled over the next few years.
The 787 production system is now operating at the 10 per month rate in final assembly including both the Dash 8 and Dash 9 which entered production last year.
Flight testing of the Dash 9 is progressing well with first delivery on track for mid-year.
The in-service of 787 fleet which now totals 115 airplanes making more than 200 flights per day continues to set new records for fuel efficiency and passenger satisfaction.
While there is still more customer by customer variation than we would like we have made good progress improving dispatch reliability which is now up around 98% on average.
More work to do on that one but we are moving closer to the goal line.
In the single-aisle segment airline interest in our new fuel-efficient 737 MAX remains high with nearly 1 800 cumulative orders to-date.
Robust customer demand for the 737 family led us to the planned rate increase to 42 per month in 2014 and the announcement of an additional production rate increase to 47 a month in 2017.
Recently Air Canada recognized the value of the 737 MAX by committing to 61 airplanes and becoming a new Boeing narrow-body customer.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security we are pleased that a fiscal year ‘14 budget agreement has been signed and fiscal year ‘15 deliberations have progressed providing some near-term sequestration relief for the Department of Defense and our other U.S.
government customers.
This averts another disruptive government shutdown and provides our customers at least a near-term planning horizon.
That said we remained very concerned about longer term budget uncertainty the ultimate consequences of sequestration on national security and the potential devastating impact to the nation’s industrial base.
Fiscal year ‘14 budget strongly funds core Boeing production programs like P-8 F/A-18 rotorcraft and satellites as well as key development programs like the KC-46 Long-Range Strike and the space launch system.
It also provides advanced procurement funds in support of continued production of the F/A-18 line into 2015.
Support for critical Boeing national security programs continues to be driven by strong on cost on schedule performance that customers expect to meet their needs in a more for less world.
Our Defense Space &amp; Security portfolio of reliable proven and affordable systems and services remains a competitive advantage in today’s budget environment.
We also continue to target organic growth through investments in technology and innovation in areas such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance cyber security and a few critical future large-scale programs identified as priorities by our customers like Long-Range Strike new class and the T-X trainer.
Combined with our market-based affordability initiative these investments strengthened our long-term position and differentiate us from our competitors many of whom have scaled back R&amp;D in these more austere times.
And we continue to leverage our unique one Boeing global advantage and our efforts to mitigate domestic market pressures.
International Defense Space &amp; Security business represented more than 30% of BDS revenues during the quarter and remains just under 40% of the BDS backlog.
We also continue to strengthen our competitive position in all markets by driving further efficiency quality and productivity to our own offices and factories and through our partnering for success initiative launched last year.
We’re seeing tangible benefits of our partnering for success work with suppliers recognizing the growth opportunity that’s available to those who fully embrace its objectives.
These productivity efforts along with an enterprise wide focus on reducing spiraling cost of development programs remain top priorities for improving our program profitability and enabling investment in future growth.
One final note before I hand it off to Greg.
In December we announced the series of personal moves to strengthen our overall leadership structure as we scale up for future growth and competitiveness.
We promoted Ray Conner and Dennis Muilenburg to Boeing Vice-Chairman and named Dennis Boeing President and Chief Operating Officer.
We also appointed Chris Chadwick President and CEO of Defense Space &amp; Security replacing Dennis and named Shelley Lavender of Boeing Military Aircraft replacing Chris.
While assuming some corporate duties as Vice Chairman Ray’s primary focus will remain on delivering the growth and profitability at commercial airplanes.
Dennis has joined us in Chicago where he is working with me in the day to day oversight of the company’s business operations with a particular focus on growth enablers including our global relationships and development program performance.
All four are highly capable; high performing leaders with demonstrated track records and will continue to strengthen our company and drive business results and just to be clear I’m not planning to retire anytime soon.
So while you may be seeing more of them it doesn’t mean you will be seeing less of me.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg?  Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let’s turn to slide 4 and we will discuss our full year results.
Revenue for the year was a record $87 billion reflecting 6% growth from last year driven by higher deliveries across our commercial and defense businesses.
Core earnings per share was $7.07 for the full year representing a 20% increase.
The increase in EPS was driven by strong operational performance across the company.
Operating cash flow for the year was also very strong at $9.7 billion before the $1.5 billion discretionary pension contribution.
The robust cash generation was driven by higher deliveries solid core operating performance as well as favorable timing of receipts and expenditures both of which will ultimately factor into 2014 and expected cash generation.
Moving now to our quarterly results on slide 5 fourth quarter revenue increased 7% to 23.8 billion driven by again strong commercial airplane and defense deliveries.
Core operating margin in the quarter was 7.7% excluding the $406 million non-cash charge associated with the A-12 settlement core operating margins increased to 9.4% in the quarter primarily driven by favorable mix in commercial deliveries and solid productivity gains of both businesses.
Core earnings per share increased 29% to a $1.88 in the quarter on higher volume and continued strong operational performance.
The $0.28 benefit from the recent IRS tax regulation change for research credits partially offset the $0.34 earnings per share impact from the A-12 settlement.
Let’s discuss commercial airplanes now on slide 6 for the fourth quarter our commercial airplanes business increased revenue 4% to $14.7 billion on a 172 airplane deliveries and increased operating margins to 10.3%.
Higher volume favorable delivery mix and strong performance was offset by the anticipated increase in fourth quarter R&amp;D spending and higher 787 dilution.
Commercial airplanes revenue for the year was a record $53 billion an increase of 8% as we successfully executed on our planned production rate increases resulting in record deliveries totaling 648 aircraft.
Commercial airplanes captured $43 billion of net orders during the quarter an increased backlog to a new record of $374 billion in over 5 000 aircraft.
Gross inventory for the company included $33.1 billion related to the 787 program an increase in the fourth quarter of approximately $1.7 billion.
This increase was primarily driven by the higher planned inventory and to support the production rate increase to 10 per month and the introduction of the 787-9 program.
Included in the work-in-process inventory are deferred production costs.
The deferred balance for the 787 program was $21.6 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
We continue to see progress in key operational performance indicators and unit cost as we further implement production efficiencies and stabilize the overall production system on the 787 program.
Unit cost is improved approximately 20% over the past year on the 787-8 but we are introducing the Dash 9 into the production system and at the same time increasing production rates by 40%.
Overall the team has continued to make good progress in reducing production flow times and reducing part shortages at both Everett and Charleston facilities.
These are key enablers to reducing unit costs and achieving planned production rates and deliveries.
We are also seeing good initial progress on the 787-9 where we have seen 25% improvement in unit costs from the first airplane to the fourth airplane to roll out of the factory.
While we still have a lot of work ahead of us on the 787 program we anticipate continued improvement as production stabilizes at 10 per month rate.
We are also remained focused on improving program performance and successfully completing the flight test program on the 787-9 and the development of the 787-10.
Let’s turn now to Defense Space &amp; Security results on Slide 7.
Fourth quarter revenue on our defense business increased 6% to $8.9 billion and operating margins were 10.8% driven by higher volume delivery mix and improved performance.
As a result of our continued focus on productivity and driving market-based affordability efforts we have had significantly reduced our cost structure and we are on track for additional reductions that will further enhance our productivity and strengthen our competitive position going forward.
International customers accounted for 33% of our defense revenue in the fourth quarter and we continue to drive towards sustaining 30% of defense revenue from international markets going forward.
Revenue at Boeing Military Aircraft increased 9% to $4.4 billion in the fourth quarter primarily driven by higher deliveries.
Strong operating margins of 10% in the quarter were due to increased volume and solid operating performance.
Network &amp; Space systems revenue at $2.3 billion increased 12% primarily driven by higher sales on ground-based missile defense and Space Launch Systems.
Operating margins were 10.3% in the quarter resulting from continued focus on execution and productivity along with favorable delivery mix in the quarter.
Global Services &amp; Support reported fourth quarter revenue at $2.2 billion and solid operating margins of 12.8%.
Defense Space &amp; Security reported a solid backlog of $67 billion with 37% of our current backlog representing customers outside the United States.
Let’s now turn to Slide 8.
Boeing Capital net financing portfolio declined to $3.9 billion on normal runoff that exceeded new aircraft volume.
Fourth quarter unallocated expense from core operations of $532 million was primarily driven by the $406 million charge associated with the A-12 settlement and an increase in deferred compensation expense driven by higher stock price and overall stock market performance.
Let’s now turn to cash on Slide 9.
Operating cash for the fourth quarter was $1.4 billion.
And the strength of our cash flow was driven by higher volume strong operating performance and timing of receipts and expenditures.
With regard to capital deployment we paid approximately $400 million in dividends to shareholders and repurchased 7.6 million shares for $1 billion in the fourth quarter.
For the full year we paid $1.5 billion in dividends and repurchased 25.4 million shares for $2.8 billion.
Let’s now move to cash and debt balances on Slide 10.
We ended the quarter with $15.3 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Our cash position continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us very well going forward.
Again our financial strength allows to continue to invest in key growth areas of our business return cash to shareholders and execute on our balance cash deployment strategy going forward.
Let’s turn now to slide 11 and we will discuss our outlook for 2014.
Our guidance for 2014 reflects solid core operating performance and higher deliveries at commercial airplanes business while reflecting impact of the current DoD defense budget environment.
Core earnings per share guidance for 2014 is set between $7 and $7.20 per share.
We expect first quarter revenue core EPS and cash flow to be the lowest during the year based on timing of deliveries and phasing of expenditures and advances.
First quarter core EPS is estimated to be approximately 20% for our full year earnings.
On a GAAP EPS basis first quarter is expected to be impacted by a $140 million non-cash pension curtailment charge associated with the IAM contract extension.
Again this will not impact core EPS.
The financial effects of this agreement include the initial cash payment associated with the approval of the extension and the enhanced employee benefits as we transition from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan.
The long term benefits to both employees and the company are clear as the unprecedented 10 year agreement further derisk the business and 777X production providing a stable foundation for productivity improvements and employment of our highly skilled workforce as we strive to remain competitive.
Revenue for 2014 is forecasted to increase between 87.5 billion and 90.5 billion.
Our commercial airplane revenue guidance is expected to be 57.5 billion to 59.5 billion reflecting approximately 10% growth as we execute on our record background.
2014 commercial delivery forecast is between 715 and 725 airplanes this includes approximately a 110 deliveries from the 787 program including 17 new custom introductions and additional flow time to support early introduction of the 787-9.
Commercial airplane operating margin guidance is approximately 10% on improved operating performance offset by greater dilution impact on higher 787 deliveries and further investments to support future business growth.
Defense Space &amp; Security revenue guidance for 2014 is between 30 billion and 31 billion reflecting the continued challenge defense environment partially offset by ongoing international growth.
Operating margin guidance at our defense business is forecasted approximately 9.5% reflecting continued productivity efforts offset by impact of lower volume and delivery mix.
We expect research and development spending for 2014 at approximately 3.2 billion primarily driven by 737 MAX initial 777X and 787-10 development along with continued key strategic investments in our defense business.
Turning to cash flow we expect operating cash flow before pension contributions to be approximately $7 billion reflecting higher 737 and 787 deliveries and continued strong operating performance.
The cash flow in 2014 also reflects favorable timing of receipts and expenditures last year.
Higher cash tax payments associated with the improved 787 unit cost in 2014 as well as fewer 767 deliveries as we efficiently transition to tanker production and then finally includes the payment of the signing bonus to the IAM employees associated with the contract extension.
Our required [ph] pension contributions for 2014 will be minimal while we aggressively look for additional opportunities to reduce future pension liabilities we continue to proactively manage the funded status and anticipate a $750 million discretionary pension contribution in 2014.
Regarding our cash deployment in December we announced the next steps in our balance cash deployment strategy with the new $10 billion repurchase authorization adding to the 800 million left in the prior authorization at year end.
We anticipate completing the repurchase authorization over the next 2 to 3 years and further more we increased our quarterly dividend 50% at the end of the year.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investments to support future growth remains a tough priority for us.
So overall strong 2013 results were driven by our continued focus on program execution production rate increases and productivity improvements.
We expect this performance and focus to continue into 2014.
Now I will turn it over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Thank you Greg.
2013 was a very successful year for Boeing.
We continued to convert our record backlog into deliveries through strong core operating performance that allows us to return cash to shareholders while investing wisely in our products technologies and people to sustain our growth and competitiveness.
Our priorities going into 2014 remained clear.
The profitable ramp up in production on our commercial airplane programs executing on our commercial and defense development programs driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen the position in our defense business with investments in growth areas amid further international expansion and importantly providing increasing value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Now we’d be glad to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
I may have two parts in this but on today maybe you gave guidance for ‘14 revenues earnings cash they were less than we were expecting I think others too.
Our assumption was that there is some always some conservatism here but this appeared to be tied to lower than expected delivery rates.
And what I wanted to understand is on the 787 you are now at 10 a month but you still have a large number of Change Incorp airplanes that should be delivered so the 110 guidance seemed low to us.
And we are trying to understand how you expect 787 production and deliveries to evolve over this year in 2015? And then also how we should be looking at the ramp to 42 a month on the 737 and what that means for production and deliveries so that we have a good sense of where you are at in terms of these delivery rates? And also just if you expect were these numbers are the delivery rates you are looking at are those consistent with what you were hoping for say a few months ago?  Okay.
They were Doug let me just start there and then let me give you some color on 87 and 47.
On the 87 I think there is one thing to keep in mind is although we are executing at 10 a month we are not delivering at 10 a month yet.
So you got some transition there of going from 7 a month on the delivery basis to 10 but you got to factor that.
And there is a handful of Change Incorp airplanes that are in our guidance going forward for this year and frankly less than last year.
So you are taking that into account and then some final deliveries at the end of the year as we work with customers on their ability to take certain amount of airplanes within certain timeframe.
So this is all within our expectations.
Team is executing very well as you saw from last year’s deliveries very focused on meeting these objectives in 2014.
As you look to 2015 I think you will – if you just kind of calculate on production rates you will certainly get closer to delivery expectations but certainly right now we are focused on meeting our objectives for 2014 and getting these airplanes into the hands of our customer.
On the 737 we are making great progress 38 a month and stabilized at 38 a month.
You look at the operating metrics around us operating at 38 a month we have record low shortages.
They are improving flow time on final line and making good progress as we look at production readiness getting to 42 a month.
And obviously that will come into play a little bit later this year so you won’t get the full benefit of the 42 through the balance of the year.
But again that team is executed flawlessly and making rate breaks keeping the production system stable at the same time looking for opportunities to improve.
So that’s kind of how we see at least 87 and 37 deliveries going into this year.
And can you say when that transition is on the 37? When you’re expecting the BA-42 and what the implications are for deliveries this year.
We will break 42 here in around second quarter on a production basis and then the deliveries will start to flow out from there and I think you saw in the 87 we just pushed our first airplane out at 10 month earlier this week.
We’re making good progress.
And next we go to Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
So I would like to follow on to Doug’s question but specifically with respect to the cash flow guide given that Boeing is very much cash flow story today and again understanding the guide maybe somewhat conservative but the market is actually I think reacting to the other option which that is just disappointingly low.
So beyond the delivery discussion we just had Greg can you simply this to framed 2014 cash flow in a longer term context understanding there were some acceleration in the ’13 but that’s just simply going to make some investors wonder if ’13 was peak and if it's not can you help us figure out where peak is when and how we get there and perhaps within that could you speak specifically to 787 cash flow profile over the next few years?  I will give you some additional color kind of going from ’13 to ’14 because that is important as you think about timing because we certainly had some very favorable timing late in the year that was really more expected to be in ’14 so you kind of got a step back and look at the guide recognize where we’re in the year and then at the same time look at 2013 performance and as you saw from the guidance we issued we far exceeded that.
So timing is a big aspect of this from ’13 to ’14 as well as cash taxes.
So as we continue to make improvements on 787 unit cost obviously we will pay more in cash taxes and that will continue going forward.
Now that will also be long term be more than offset by us continuing to execute on the rate increases we have talked about and continued focus on 787 unit by unit profitability and that’s ultimately going to continue to drive the cash flow profile over the long term.
Another moving piece as I mentioned in my remarks from ’13 to ’14 is 767 deliveries which again planned out lower production rate as we successfully transition from commercial on to tanker transition.
So again well planned out we know we need to do there and then from there really lower volume at BDS but those are really the big moving pieces from 2013 to ’14.
Now to answer your question kind of more long term and I partially address this earlier but the fact is again when you step back and think about you know our production rates and what we need to do to execute on those rates and again 787 unit by unit profitability that’s what’s going to drive the cash flow profile throughout again kind of over the long term so we feel very comfortable with that and I think as you saw by our cash deployment announcements on the repurchase and the dividend you know we have the confidence in our ability to do that and return good portion of that cash back to shareholders.
So Greg that presents a fairly sizeable bridge from ’14 to ’15 and beyond but you feel comfortable that peak is somewhere in that future? We shouldn’t be looking back at ’13?  No I would tell you you know certainly you know think about where we’re in deferred and I would kind of put the peak more out in the 2016 going forward timeframe and again that’s I think the production rate increases over that time as we talked about on 87 in particular and then the unit cost progression and improvement on 87.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
On the margin side within BCA if you net out R&amp;D and net out dilution from 87 and 47 looks like you had a pretty good quarter sequentially? Usually you have a step down from Q3 to Q4 and period cost I guess at year end and that didn’t happen this quarter Greg? So as we think about the margin profile maybe you can talk a bit about what happened in Q4 why you didn’t have that step down and why we shouldn’t think that your margin could be quite a bit above what you’re guiding for 2014.
Yeah I think Joe certainly the performance on the core programs was the biggest driver in fourth quarter particularly 37 and 777 so they executed very well.
To your point very tight controls over the period expense R&amp;D and other elements that supporting a bit so just good solid execution from the team on there.
As you look forward into 2014 certainly we have the dilution of the 787 as being one of the bigger contributors at the same time a slightly higher R&amp;D as we peak out on MAX but really start to get ramping up on Dash 10 and 777X.
And then again slightly more forecasted on period expense as we double our production on 87 and get more customers in our fleet and how we are supporting those customers initially as they take deliveries.
So those are kind of the moving pieces.
Team is very focused on driving productivity.
We are continuing to make investments on streamlining.
I talked about the production flow on the 87 and the 37 but we are continuing to look for further opportunities there and making more investments frankly over this period in things like automation and productivity tools than we have in the past.
So team is very focused on executing and meeting these objectives.
It seems like partnering for success probably played a pretty – it’s playing a pretty big role in the margin improvement and I was wondering if you could maybe confirm that and talk about what inning you think you are in of the process?  Yes I think we are pretty much in the same timeframe we talked before.
We are at the beginning.
We are at the early stages of this.
We have certainly you and I have talked about 37 margin the 777 margins and particularly 37 through the transition of the NG and the MAX and that certainly has helped.
But it’s early on we have got people obviously that have signed up and we have great partnerships in place to execute that going forward but we got a lot of opportunity and a lot of work to do from here.
And I think again we have good plans in place and we are really engaging with the suppliers and really trying to figure out how do we collectively work together to drive additional productivity and profitability.
And again I think we have got some good plans in place to go execute that.
It’s going to take time.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
And next we have Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just to expand a little bit on that Greg on the 777 program margin given what’s going on there with the transition.
Yes.
Now Jim you said that you expected to sell that bridge out over the next couple of years but obviously there is – there are price considerations associated with that non-recurring costs associated with that and then on the other side partnering for success and productivity you guys had a – it seems to be the right assumptions for the 737 transition.
And in your comment in your response to Joe’s question you imply that you are appropriately protecting to those items and you think that the 777 margin can be maintained and expanded or is there some risk there due to the items I mentioned?  Well I think the big picture here is that a fewer stronger customer franchises out there than the 777 franchise.
And there are customers who have invested heavily in this airplane who are beginning to order the new airplane out in the future.
And the reason is it represents incredible productivity versus almost any alternative and whereas we were building a bridge on the 37 in competition with an airplane that was somewhat comparable depending upon who is making the argument.
With the 777 we are building a bridge with a franchise that is pretty singular in its strength.
And so we do anticipate inability with these customers who are driving the productivity associated with it and the performance associated with it.
We anticipate being able to build that bridge over the next number of years as we approach 2020 and then – and beyond with the new airplane.
And it’s all about what the alternative would be as they are trying to build lift in the meantime.
And so we are working with them on combined orders for the current 777 as well as the new one.
And we anticipate at least the same kind of result that we had with the 37.
So we are working it and we don’t think the economics of our current projections don’t suggest that the economics is going to change dramatically.
Now are we building a hedge with partnering for success and driving internal productivity? That’s the way we live life around here okay? Now the partnering for success will be hitting and some would say this is coincidental but we will be hitting it's mid-stride right around the time that the bridge is being implemented and that’s not by accident.
And we will go to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I want to go Jim can you talk a little bit about the strategic partnering that you’ve done with the union?  Yes.
And could you elaborate a little bit more on how you have tried to form a partnership with them when what we see is a little bit of angst over this contract extension? Maybe just to put it a little bit more I mean you’re making a big investment by paying each member $10 000 today and so what do you expect to get tomorrow?  Well Howard this is a good question I mean I think again just starting at 50 000 feet here for a second we’re exiting a period where every few years we had a dramatic event and we’re entering a period of 10 years of stability.
So that’s the big picture.
Now having said that the (indiscernible) was close there there were emotions on both sides of equation but I think eventually everybody centered on this huge business opportunity we have got with the 777 and we came together.
Now just as in the past every few hours we had to go through a period of rebuilding relationships we now have an opportunity to do it for a 10 year period and I think Ray and his team are reaching out and I would also say that the unions the union out there is also reaching out.
I think both sides I’m seeing signs of both sides seeing the size of this opportunity through the drama heartfelt as it was and there are still some emotion but I think we’re now focused on the business opportunity.
There is more interaction right now between IAM-751 and the management in Seattle than there has been in a long time.
I mean I think there is they are beginning to come together.
So I think there will be a period where we have to work together where emotions will stay play a rule but I’m convinced for the 10 year opportunity in front of us like we have got I think fairly quickly we’re going to come together and capitalize on that.
Well follow-up if I can a little bit.
I mean can we see you know either some change I mean obviously you offer a lot of new people and opportunity to enter the workforce and that will lower the average age over time and that’s constructive development and also not spending all of the capital to move a plant somewhere else.
Could you at least provide us with a little bit of indication of how that’s helped competitiveness of the Boeing company?  Yeah I think with the agreement that we were able to come to with the union that became the best opportunity for the company.
You’re right it's capital avoidance versus moving the work it is using some of the best very best aerospace workers in the world that don’t have to go down the learning curve to get things done.
A very committed set of folks around the Boeing brand and around our customer.
So this was the right answer for both economic risk and leadership reasons.
Now having said that if we didn’t come to that answer we were prepared to move the work not withstanding some of the risk I mentioned but given the agreement I think this is the right answer for the company and it will benefit us going forward both with our customers and economically.
We will next go to Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
So you know to get back to one of the early questions cash flow guide for ‘14 is considerably below I think where most people were.
So could you give us some more granularity in terms of some of the key issues for example 787 deferred how much are they likely to be up? Your 787 tooling was up more than I guess than the fourth quarter how much is that up? Do you have to pay the $400 million on the A-12? You mentioned the IAM how big is the cash bonus? And then some color if you could on progress payments and excess advances? Thanks.
Okay Cai I will take a shot of that.
I don’t think I captured all of that but I am sure you catch me if I don’t.
Deferred there is no change in deferred and then that kind of profile as we have said kind of reaching the $25 billion by late ‘14? So that has not changed in from what we talked prior.
And with the ‘13 to ‘14 the biggest driver certainly be in timing and as I said we had some real favorable timing in the fourth quarter that initially we expected to be in early ‘14.
The cash taxes I talked about that but again when you step back the cash taxes on the 787 are the result of improved performance on the 787.
So continuing to kind of come down that learning curve and improving unit by unit we are going to pay more in cash taxes.
And so there is some headwind in ‘14 that wasn’t in ‘13.
And then as I said making the successful transition over on the tanker will have fewer airplanes we will deliver on the 767 this year from last year.
So those are the big moving pieces.
And then everything beyond that is more rather smaller than those pieces.
So that’s what it is.
We understand it.
Team is very focused on cash management as you have seen over the last couple of years and how we have executed on meeting our objectives and quite frankly exceeding them a couple of years in a row.
So it’s early we are going to stay focused on it.
And just one other point you mentioned A-12 that was a non-cash so there is no impact there.
But again looking forward it’s all about us meeting our production rates and coming down on that learning curve on the 787.
Those are the two biggest elements as we look forward in continuing to grow cash flow going forward.
So you had also mentioned the investment in the 87 your 787 tooling was up in the fourth quarter is that going to be up and how big was the IAM bonus and IAM pension?  Yes I don’t expect the tooling to be up.
There was a one-off in there related to suppliers meeting summit key performance objectives.
So I wouldn’t see that growing over time.
The IAM agreement was about $300 million.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question is from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Yes good morning Jim and Greg.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Agee</strong> Hey Greg can I just circle back quickly on the 787 delivery guidance you mentioned there was going to be less of the Change Incorp aircraft delivered this year?  Yes.
Agee</strong> Is that just – is it driven by the customer timing and acceptance? Are you still struggling to complete some of the early ones? And then just related to that if you could also address how things are going in Charleston in terms of there has been some articles written just reducing the flow times the part shortages Jim mentioned I think you have made some progress but you are talking about adding some people maybe you could just provide a little more color?  Yes.
Well let me maybe start there and then I will bring you back to deliveries but certainly when you look at flow time you look at unit cost at Charleston whether it’s final mid or at it made great progress there.
And the team has been very focused on continuing that progress going forward.
We have experienced some – a higher number of jobs behind the schedule in the mid-body section and that’s really due to if you think about it you are introducing the Dash 9 at the same time going to 10 a month.
And just a reminder a most significant structural change in the airplane going from a Dash 8 to a Dash 9 is in the mid-body.
So to address this we have applied additional resources we know how to do this and we will get those jobs back to what we view as a more acceptable level.
So we got mitigation plans.
They are building at 10 a month.
And as you have seen we just finished that first airplane at 10 a month.
So we know what to do here.
We got the right people addressing it.
And this is again this is just all part of bringing this program up to a wide-body rate that obviously has never been done and they are doing it successfully.
But there is going to be points in the production system where you are going to have to put additional resources from time-to-time and this just happens to be one of them but stepping back from there that team is doing a great job as is obviously the team endeavor [ph].
On the 87 deliveries for the year yeah there is fewer EMC some of that’s customer some of that is that the airplanes that are in flow this year are longer flow.
So they have more outstanding work to be completed and some of them had in 2013 so you kind of got to take that into consideration and then at the same time as I mentioned you have got additional flow in there for Dash-9 again progressing well but as we got to introduce that into the production system and get the flow time being equal on the Dash-8 to the Dash-9 there is some transitional period there and then of course on top of that we’re introducing 17 new customers in 2014 so there is some consideration for that through the 2014 delivery.
So those are kind of the big moving pieces within 87 deliveries.
And we will go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to circle back on this kind of came up on a couple of previous question but maybe from a different point of view.
When we think about maybe a little bit of a longer term picture and we have got the transition between the 737NG to the 737 MAX.
We have got the R&amp;D program ahead of us on the 777X.
How should we think about that as a potential impact on margins? I mean do you expect a smooth transition I guess first part of the question between the NG and the MAX that would be interesting and then two it seems like despite a scope of the project even though it's a derivative a new big wing on a big airplane but that’s I don’t know $8 billion plus or minus a couple of billion sized program right? So how should we think about those as headwinds in the future?  Well Ron I will take a swing at that one.
I mean my view is that the next 10 years are significantly derisked when compared with the previous 10 okay? And why do I say that? You mentioned derivative elements in the new and the two big programs lie in front of us I would add to Dash-10 to that 787-10 technologies harvested largely from the 787s that have now matured.
Lord knows we went through the maturational process not as elegantly as we would have liked but we’re now in a position that we can move those technologies into our new platforms and so it is a huge opportunity because the economics of a new 777 the Dash-10 and the MAX are very strong customer acceptance as you have seen is very strong and the risk that we will absorb in developing them as well as introducing them into production is I would characterize it as significantly less than we have had over the last 10 years and now that doesn’t mean that these are free throws okay? But just more specifically on a 37 I mean it's basically the same line there are some changes to the structure obviously and certainly the engine build up and the engine itself is different.
777 will also use the same line you’re right the developing the wing is something that lies in front of us but it's our fourth generation airfoil with the composite materials [ph] we’re going to use on that wing.
So we have got some experience with it it's bigger but scaling up is something is one kind of a challenge a completely new material for any kind of an airfoil is a totally different kind of challenge challenge that we observed in the last decade and the Dash-10 the third derivative type program is really a stretch of the Dash-9 with some modifications that actually give us an opportunity to make the Dash-8 Dash-9 and Dash-10 more common.
We’re going to use the which will reduce the production risk to the program overall.
So whether add a 50 000 foot level or a program by program we’re highly confident that these are programs where we can harvest the growth opportunity that our customers have told us are there would the huge number of orders with them on all those planes.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
You are welcome.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And now we have Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just wanted to go back in terms of some of the free cash is just directly is advances a source of cash this year? And then related to that can you talk a little about cash deployment? Are you still thinking 85% of that will go back to shareholders this year or given the $15 billion in cash from the balance sheet could we see a higher number this year?  Yes I think you will see a higher number this year Sam.
And we are obviously as I said we are committed to executing on that balance deployment the $10 billion of authorization in the dividend.
So I think I said before plus or minus 80% it’s going to vary from year-to-year but I expect this to be north of that in 2014.
So we are committed to doing that.
And then just on the R&amp;D can you breakup a little bit the $3.2 billion this year how much of that is commercial versus defense because it just looks like you are going to see the growth in the commercial I am trying to thinking should we assume that that’s going to continue to grow until the MAX entering into service?  Yes it depends.
It’s kind of flat.
It’s about $1.2 billion $2 billion.
So you are seeing a slight increase there in ‘14.
And again that the Dash 9 coming down 37 MAX picking up in investment and that will peak in ‘15 and then again early introduction on the 777X and the 10X.
So those are kind of the big moving pieces in ‘14.
As you look to kind of ‘15 and now and certainly we are early in having that discussion but we are going through program by program and doing what Jim said where are we leveraging our prior investments in technology where are we applying replication and really where are we leveraging in kind of key technologies that we have on other programs real obviously team focus on.
Affordability and disciplined operating rhythm around R&amp;D expenditures and I think frankly you saw some results of that in ‘13.
So we are continuing to kind of work through the next three to five years on that profile but again real focus on affordability there.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now retune you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We are running a little tight here but we do have time for some questions from the media for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we are ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And we will go to Jon Ostrower with The Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Jon.
Good morning.
Just looking back at the IAM contract debate Boeing really talked how airplanes are being sold for lower – sorry much higher relative discounts than the past as you look at Airbus’ next move potentially putting new engines on the A330 and you are looking that as a lower cost option for delivering the kind of efficiencies that airlines are clamoring for.
As you look at it from a strategic perspective is there any regret from your perspective about not continuing to invest in the 767 as a lower cost offering to airlines we have more of these I think 767 fleets?  Absolutely no regret I think if you look at the operating performance of virtually any of the 87 family compared with whatever they may do with the A330 and it’s pure speculation Jon as far as I know.
I know nothing.
The operating advantage that we have is very very compelling.
Now could they build an airplane and lower the price to a point where it brings even on some NPV analysis maybe but paying for that the development you alluded to and still having it all work would be tough in that kind of environment.
So no we are highly confident that we have got an answer for anything they might do with the A330.
And the 767 as you know is alive and well selling freighters to great customers like Federal Express and will become the basis of a 40 year plus as some people say I don’t know how long it will be but some people say that the tanker program will last 40 years.
That’s a pretty good deployment of that capability in my mind.
Next we go to Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Jim my question arises out of the recent Machinists deal which as you know they had to give up their defined benefit pensions.
Many (indiscernible) workers and others in Washington state are pointing to your personal defined benefit pension which will pay out more than 3.6 million a year.
I’m asking where is the shared sacrifice from you and other top executives? What would you tell them?  I think the IAM deal first of all was a necessary deal that makes this company very competitive okay? Now in addition we do have a very very large even after that deal and some other deals that we have cut.
We still have a very large pension obligation that we need to address over the next few years and we will address it and we’re not prepared to have a discussion about that today but the principle of dealing with that in a fair and equitable way is something that we’re mindful of but stay tuned.
Our next is from Al Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to ask last summer you were saying in terms of the U.S.
budget cuts and sequestration that we’re not out of the woods we’re going into the wood.
I wonder if you could talk descriptively about how that picture has changed now that we’re seeing more clarity on the 2014 horizon and also just on the commercial side in terms of your sense of the readiness of the suppliers to support your ramps in production?  On the commercial side?  Yeah.
As for sequestration I think what really happened with the deal the Ryan-Murray deal was sort of one way to think about it simply is that it delayed the full impact of sequestration by 18 to 24 months by about a half okay? And so it's sequestration still lurks out there.
It could be dealt with legislatively again.
There is time to have a rational debate about that and in the meantime there is relief for 18 to 24 months so that’s the quick way to think about that and in terms or readiness and Boeing by the way as I think both Greg and I said in our remarks did very well with that incremental funding in terms of program allocation.
Supplier readiness look it's an incredible part of the work that we do to be prepared for this rate breaks.
It's growing well we have gone through a series of rate uppers over the last 2 or 3 years.
We’re actually entering a period now over the next 2 or 3 years where there is a more there is the rate changes is dramatic and therefore there will be somewhat less pressure on suppliers but we’re feeling very confident in their ability to deliver the program that we have described to you out in the next few years.
And next we will go to Andrew Parker with Financial Times.
Please go ahead.
Jim I wonder if I could ask you a sort of broad macroeconomic question please you all have seen I mean for some time now China India Indonesia several emerging market economies reporting economic slowdown and now we’re seeing significant currency volatility of a currency like the Indonesian currency against the dollar.
Are you at all concerned that this is going to have a negative impact on your commercial aircraft or the backlog in other words are you alert and concerned about the risk that some airlines as a result of lower growth currency volatility you could actually cancel orders differ deliveries et cetera.
How do you look at it?  We haven't seen that yet and we have had no sort of leading indicator discussions with people either.
So I think from time-to-time we do have these currency flurries.
China as they go through their leadership transition there is some uncertainty and a point or two of slowdown in the overall economy as they try to get their feet underneath them with the new leadership.
I don’t think the China story has changed firstly.
I see the currency as a country by country.
And I think the big picture and so I don’t see an epidemic at this stage.
And the other thing to be my flow is that half of the planes we sell are a very very big value proposition to these airlines.
The planes they are replacing are dramatically inefficient versus the ones that we have whether it’s the new 777 and 787.
So a 10% move in currency even the 20% move in currency is it going to get in the way of providing 30% 40% improvements in overall economics that these planes have.
So we are a little insulated in that way too.
Our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Hi.
Obviously you had blockbuster year for orders last year just wondering if you can give us a little bit of color for what you expect for 2014 and also what your thinking is for book-to-bill do you see orders exceeding deliveries?  Well I think this year will be as we look at it it feels like at least a book-to-bill of 1-to-1 coming up this year.
Alright that’s it.
Operator we have time this morning for one last question please.
And that will be from Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
Please go ahead.
Hi there.
You mentioned the customer by customer variation in the reliability for the 787 so I just wondered if you can say more about that I mean why would there be differences from one customer to the next? And what kinds of reliability what are maybe sort of the top one or two reliabilities you are just still dealing with on that?  Well each customer has different ways of using and operating the airplane.
There is also some randomness about it but 98% which is the average is a pretty good number.
About I think about 45% of the fleet is operating above the 98.5% which is getting closer to our 99% plus objective.
So there is just sort of standard randomness but also some operating things the operating differences across the airlines but there is still some software debugging that’s going on.
There is some electromechanical systems that have to be replaced a little more often than we want them to be replaced but all those trends are coming down.
And so we remain confident that we are that this year we are going to reach our goal of getting over 99% reliability.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for member of the press if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I am turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s first quarter 2014 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in today’s press release and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning everybody.
Let me begin today by acknowledging the families and loved ones of those aboard Malaysia Airlines flight 370.
Our thoughts and sympathies remain with them at this time.
In accordance with international protocols Boeing is serving as a technical advisor to the NTSB and support of Malaysian authorities and we appreciate the ongoing efforts of all parties involved in the investigation.
Turning back to the subject at hand this morning I’ll start with some comments on our first quarter performance in the business environment.
After that Greg will walk you through details of our financial results and outlook.
Now let’s turn to Slide 2.
Building on our momentum from 2013 Boeing delivered strong first quarter financial results including healthy revenue increases solid core operating margins and double-digit growth in core earnings per share.
During the quarter we also return significant value to shareholders by repurchasing $2.5 billion of Boeing stock and increasing our dividend pay out to $540 million.
Revenue at Boeing Commercial Airplanes was $12.7 billion and operating margins grew to 11.8% a result of higher volume and a favorable delivery mix.
We delivered 161 commercial airplanes in the first quarter including 18 787 Dreamliners and we added the net new orders of 235 airplanes.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported revenue in the first quarter of $7.6 billion and also generated solid operating margins.
During the quarter BDS captured numerous key contract awards including a $2.4 billion order for U.S.
Navy to support full rate production of 16 P-8A Poseidon Aircraft an order from the U.S.
Army for 82 Apache Block III helicopters and in March the Government of Qatar announced its intent to purchase 24 Apache helicopters and three 737 based AEW&amp;C aircraft.
Noteworthy program milestones included the first C-17 delivery to the Kuwait Air Force the first Peace Eagle delivery to the Turkish Armed Forces and the successful completion of On-Orbit Testing for the first Inmarsat-5 satellite.
In summary we delivered another strong quarter of operating performance achieved significant program milestones captured orders totaling $19 billion and returned significant cash to shareholders.
All of which Greg will cover in more detail in just a moment.
With that let’s turn the business environment on Slide 3.
Global customer demand remains high for our fuel efficient and value creating commercial airplane family as evidenced by our strong orders intake during the quarter.
Global passenger traffic trends remains strong and air cargo traffic continues to gradually improve.
Despite some variation in emerging market growth rates we see no softening of demand for our commercial airplanes given the compelling operating economics and increased fuel efficiency that our airplanes provide.
In fact underpinning the strength of this cycle relative to past ones is a sustained higher level of replacement demand fueled by compelling airplane economics and the rapid return on investment that comes from replacing older less efficient aircraft with a dramatically more efficient new technology airplanes we are building today and will introduce throughout this decade.
Furthermore deferral request from customers are still running well below the historical average request to accelerate deliveries meanwhile continue at a study an encouraging rate.
This ongoing demand coupled with our sizable backlog of more than 5100 airplanes which is balanced geographically and across customer operating models reinforces our plan production rates and we believe position us for a significant and sustained growth in the years ahead.
For the superior commercial airplane product line that provides customers a broadest range of size and range capabilities.
In addition to unparallel operating economics we continue to expect a book-to-bill ratio above one for the year.
In the Twin-Aisle segment we expect 2014 will be a strong order year for both the current 777 family and the new 777X models.
All Nippon Airways announced intention to purchase both the 777-9X and additional 777-300ERs illustrates the value that these airplanes bring to the market and reflects our intended strategy to pair orders when possible to meet customer fleet needs and support the production bridge to the 777X.
Based on 777 proposal the volume firm orders and options we’ve confidence in filling the remaining 2016 production slots and we anticipate active sales campaign currently underway will readily solidify 2017 and 2018.
With the firm backlog of nearly 300 current 777 continued strong customer demand and airplane availability this decade we have high confidence in executing a successful transition to the 777X.
The 787 Dreamliner is operating at our plan production rate of 10 per month.
And both our Everett and Charleston facilities have made great stride on rate stabilization and introduction of the 787-9.
We delivered 10 787s in March and including April deliveries to-date we have delivered total of 133 787 to 18 customers.
The fleet is flying in average of more than 260 flights per day with overall dispatch reliability trending positively at above 98%.
More work to do there for a number of customers but good progress underway nonetheless.
787-9 flight testing and production are progressing well.
And we now have rolled out our 6-9 from final assembly.
We remained on track to deliver the first 787-9 to Air New Zealand around the middle of this year.
In the Single-Aisle segment airplane interest – airline interest I should say in our new fuel efficient 737 MAX remains high cumulative orders have surpassed 1900 to-date.
In April we also delivered the first next generation 737 produced at the increased rate of 42 per month.
And we’re on-track to further increase 737 production to 47 per month in 2017.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security The President’s FY2015 budget request demonstrated solid support from major Boeing programs including KC-46 Tanker V-22 Apache Chinook GMD NASA's space launch system and commercial crew along with satellite programs including those in the proprietary area.
Well funding for the FAA team was not included in the budget request may be officials have identified additional Growler models as a top priority for funding consideration by Congress this year.
Our FAA team family provides exceptional value for customers with proven technology for needed missions at affordable costs.
We continue to work with Congress the Navy and potential international customers to reiterate the aircrafts value proposition.
International Defense Space &amp; Security business represented nearly 30% of BDS revenues during the quarter and remains at 35% of the BDS backlog as we continue to leverage our unique one Boeing global advantage.
We also continue to target organic growth through investments and technology and innovation in areas such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligent surveillance and reconnaissance cyber security and a few but critical future large-scale programs as identified as priorities by our customers like Long-Range Strike new class and the T-X trainer.
The relative strength of our Defense Space &amp; Security business stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven and is being delivered on budget and on schedule.
Across the enterprise we remain intensely focused on driving further efficiency quality and productivity gains to improve program profitability and importantly to fund investment and future growth.
Our market-based affordability initiative within Defense Space &amp; Security as generated $4 billion of cost reductions over the past three years.
And we are on plan to drive out another $2 billion in annual operating costs.
We are also seeing early benefits from our partnering for success initiative with our suppliers with further improvements expected to materialize over the next few years as production ramp-ups on our new airplane programs occur.
Before I turn it over Greg.
Let me comment briefly on the set of related developments in the first quarter that would materially improve our competitive position enhance workforce stability and reduce business risk for us and our customer.
Following completion in January of a long-term contract expansion with our Machinists union in the specific North West we successfully negotiated long-term expansion with our Machinists in Saint Louis.
These unprecedented agreements essentially ensure a decade of labor continuity for us at our customer.
With economics and productivity incentives that will improve our global competitiveness A key feature in those agreements is retirement plan change which we are also flowing across our non-union population.
We started the year with approximately 15% of our workforce our modern define contribution pension plans.
After and initial transition period we will now have about 80% of our workforce covered by defined contribution plans.
These changes are strategic and fundamental to the way we are structure in the company to reduce risk ensure the health of our balance sheet and enhance our competitive position all well providing employees with attractive and competitive benefits and further driving long-term shareholder value.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg?  Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let’s turn to Slide 4 and we will discuss our first quarter results.
First quarter revenue increased 8% to $20.5 billion driven by strong commercial airplane deliveries.
Core operating margins increased to 10.2% in the quarter primarily driven by solid productivity gains of both businesses and improved commercial delivery mix.
First quarter core earnings per share $1.76 was driven by higher commercial airplane volume and continued strong operating performance.
Excluding the $0.19 of research and development tax credits we’ve receive in the first quarter last year EPS this quarter grew 14%.
At previously announced during the first quarter we recorded GAAP non-cash pension curtailment charges of approximately $330 million associated with the announced move in the define benefit pension plans to define contribution plans for over a 100 000 of our employees.
These charges did not impact core earnings per share.
And as Jim indicated we believe these pension changes in long-term labor agreements further de-risk our business and will improve the company’s long-term competitiveness and further drive value for all of our stakeholders going forward.
Let’s discuss commercial airplanes on Slide 5.
For the first quarter our commercial airplane business increased revenue 19% to $12.7 billion on a 161 airplane deliveries and increased operating margins to 11.8%.
Solid performance higher volume and favorable delivery mix contributed for the strong operating margins in the quarter and our testament to our continued focused on efficiently executing or rate increases and driving productivity.
Commercial airplanes captured $14 billion of net orders during the quarter and backlog remains very strong at $374 billion and over 5100 aircraft equating to approximately seven years of airplane production.
Gross inventory for the company included $36 billion related to the 787 program an increase during the first quarter of approximately $2.9 billion; this expected increase was primarily driven by higher planned inventory in support of the production rate increase to 10 per month and the introduction of the 787-9 program.
Included in the working process inventor are deferred production costs for the first quarter 787 deferred production balance totaled $23.1 billion a $1.5 billion increase from the fourth quarter of last year.
The $1.5 billion change in deferred production was driven by the plan transition to 10 per month rate additional 787-9 in the production system and a one-time IAM contract extension payment.
Excluding the IAM payment a change in deferred production during the quarter was slightly lower than the first quarter level.
Based on further production stability plan contracted supplier step down pricing and continued overall productivity improvements we expect a quarterly change in deferred production to decline in the second quarter.
We continue to expect 787 deferred production to peak at approximately $25 billion late this year and moderate at that level before beginning to decline shortly after we complete the transition of 12 per month production rate in 2016.
We continue to see good progress in key operational performance indicators and unit costs as we further implement production efficiencies and stabilize the overall production system on the 787 program.
While introducing the 787-9 into the production system and increasing production rates by over 40% the teams continued to make good progress on reducing 787-8 unit cost by more than 15% and improved final assembly flow times by more than 10% in the last 12 months.
More work to do but the teams remain focused on improving productivity flow times and quality going forward.
We also continue to see good progress on the 787-9 where we’ve seen a 30% improvement in unit cost and flow times from the first to sixth aircraft to rollout the factor.
We still have work ahead of us in the 787 program and anticipate continue improvement as we further stabilize at the 10 per month rate and increase 787-9 production.
We also remain on track to deliver approximately 110 787s in 2014.
Again the team remains focused on execution and improving productivity on the program.
Let’s turn now to Slide 6 to discuss Defense Space &amp; Security results.
First quarter revenue at our Defense business was $7.6 billion and operating margins were 10.2% largely driven by strong performance and delivery mix.
Boeing military aircraft first quarter revenue declined to $3.5 billion reflecting F-15 development milestones achieved in the first quarter of last year.
Operating margins in 9.6% in the quarter were due to strong operating performance which was offset by the first quarter of $48 million C-17 inventory related charge.
Global services and support increased revenue 6% to $2.3 million and reported solid operating margins at 12.1%.
Network &amp; Space Systems reported revenue of $1.9 billion and generated operating margin in 9% in the quarter resulting from continued focus on execution and productivity.
Defense Space &amp; Security reported a solid backlog of $66 billion with 35% of our current backlog representing customers outside the United States.
Turning now to Slide 7.
Boeing capital’s net financing portfolio decline to $3.5 billion on run-off that exceeded new aircraft volume.
Let’s turn to cash flow now on Slide 8.
Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $1.1 billion driven by solid operating performance and favorable timing of receipts and expenditures.
With regards to capital deployment we paid $540 million in dividends to shareholders and repurchased 19.4 million shares or $2.5 billion in the first quarter.
We continue to anticipate completing the remaining $8.3 billion of repurchase authorization over the next two years to three years.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investments to support future growth remain a top priority for us.
Let’s now move to cash and debt balances on Slide 9 we ended the quarter with $12 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Our cash position continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Turning now to Slide 10 and we'll discuss our outlook for 2014.
We're reaffirming 2014 guidance for revenue operating margins deliveries and cash flow.
And as a result of $150 million favorable IRS tax settlement we received early in the second quarter or increasing our core earnings per share guidance for 2014 by $0.15 to now be $7.15 per share to $7.35 per share.
GAAP earnings per share guidance is unchanged as the second quarter tax benefit offsets the first quarter pension curtailment charges I discussed earlier.
So in summary first quarter financial performance reflects the strength of our backlog the strong demand for our products and services and our continued focus on driving productivity and execution through the entire enterprise.
Furthermore is evident by our meaningful dividend increase in our higher share repurchase activity we continue to expect to deliver solid growth productivity and strong cash flows going forward.
So with that I’ll turn it back over to Jim for some closing comments.
Thanks Greg.
With a strong first quarter behind us we remained focused on disciplined execution quality and productivity improvements and meeting customer commitments.
Our priority is going forward remained clear but profitable ramp-up and production of our commercial airplane programs executing on our commercial and defense development programs driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen and position our Defense business with investments and growth areas a mid further international expansion and importantly providing increasing value to both our customers and shareholders.
Now we would be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) First we’ve got Rob Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Morning.
Morning.
A question for Greg on the 787 and the deferred.
You talked about the delta from last quarter and we should pull out the $300 million from the IAM.
So thinking about the $2 billion of headroom left to the peak of $25 billion it sounds Greg like year-end is the time for that.
Should we consider a curve perhaps incremental drop of about $1 billion maybe $6.50 million and $3.50 million declining like that to get to that target is that the right way to think about it or is it steeper or flatter? Than that?   Yes.
I mean just to point of clarity Rob not all the $300 million hits the 787 that was for all IAM members including folks that are on the 787 program but I think as you think about deferred going forward as I mentioned in my remarks we've got some quarter-over-quarter some step down pricing that we have with our supply chain that’s already contracted and at the same time continuing to make progress on unit cost and productivity and I mentioned that the progress that's been made up to now.
And I'll tell you there's a lot obviously in work around ahead of improved slow ahead of improved productivity and just like I think it will be go back in time when we stabilized rate on any program that’s were the team to really been able to capture productivity and that’s expected here.
So quarter-over-quarter we are going to as I said we will see improvement coming of this quarter into second quarter and we still again expect to peek at about $25 billion.
And then you know it will hold flat as I mentioned before relatively flat and then once we hit a 12 a month as where you will start to see as burning that of.
So we got to stay focused on productivity we got to stay focused on deliveries as we have and stay focused on rate readiness get into 12 a month.
So across the board you know teams to in a very good job staying focusing on those elements… So Greg just to clarify how would we think about the Delta just on 787 deferred when we factor in the IAM what piece was for that? It’s about $75 million.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question is from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
Good morning Cai.
So dig in a little bit on the 787 could you give us some color on how you spend on the Charleston mid-fuselage issue or the Charles behind down Mitsubishi weighing crack issue and then perhaps give us some color on when we should expect a step down pricing just start to kick in and which quarter? Yes sure Cai.
Let me address the jobs for so as you know we could a very concentrated effort into Charleston to focus on in particularly in the midbody and the teams making good progress.
So they have burned down a significant amount of job still some work to do but making tremendous progress and I certainly don’t see any impact on our delivery guidance for the year as a result to that so right focused the right people making good progress.
On MHI were essentially through all the MHI rework as of last night we have three airplanes left to go and again the teams executed that flawlessly and met all the requirements there is so I would say that that behind us at this point.
So all of that again playing rate into the deferred production and improvement that were expecting in unit cost.
On the step down we will start to see some of that in the next quarter.
As we introduce the next block.
So you will start to see that and obviously expect to see that through the balance of the year.
Thank you.
Should we be concerned that you only done one 787 delivery so far in April? No I think I mentioned before month-to-month you are going to see variance and deliveries certainly what you just describe had an initial impact on specific timing and at the same time we are introduce in the airplanes to 18 new customers this year.
So you are going to see a change in cadence month-over-month but like I said when you look at tail number by tail number through the balance of the year we are comfortable that we can get to the 110 deliveries.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Our next is from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning.
You talked about 777X transition and I would assume at this point you have a good sense of 777 demand later in the decade as you are working through a lot of the negotiations on combined orders for 300ERs and 777Xs but do you expect to be able to maintain 300ER production rates through the decade I mean could you describe your strategy just for the bridge and potentially any need you may have for discounting given the large production quantities that are planned for the A350 the A7 and potentially the A330.
Doug I’ll take that one.
I think the – based on the data we see we do have high confidence in being able to maintain production rates up until the introduction of the 777X there will obviously be some feathering in at the transition pint itself but by and large maintaining production rates.
Where do we get that confidence its in airplanes sold to-date its in proposals accepted its in campaigns that are ongoing today where as in the case of A&amp;A we are selling both 777-300ERs as well as the new Xs the requirement versus the alternatives still is favorable.
I think you are right there will be some pricing pressures associated with that that we’ve anticipated and the way we look at this which is why the most aggressive productivity program we have right now in our factories is on the 777 model to offset that and more but its – you have to remember the plane that essentially replaces the 777-300ER will be introduced after the first 777X.
The first 777X is a 467 passenger model the 8X which will be the one that directly replaces the 300ER wont come for a couple of years after that.
So there is plenty of running room where they can reap the economics of the base 777 in conjunction with buying 777Xs so it looks good as we talk to our customers and we do have a high degree of confidence in being able to do it.
So when you look at 2017 when things start to fall off at least when we look at firm orders are you already pretty comfortable with the discussions you're having that you can go out into 2018 for example maybe even a little longer and keep this up?  Yes I mean the pipeline gives us comfort and these are real discussions with – you have to remember the 777 customer base is one of the biggest and most loyal customer bases that we have.
So this is not discussions that are just happening in a vacuum these are with people who have both additional 777 needs in the medium term and then longer term would need the new model to significantly increase performance and productivity for themselves and there's a large overhang of options there's a large overhang of other forms of commitments that give us comfort that this will happen and there is almost 10 years from now until when the replacement model will be introduced so there's plenty of time to garner the economics of the base of 777.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
Yep you are welcome.
And next going to Joe Nadol with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Joe.
Just on the back to the 787 thinking through the next couple of years your rate is going to be flat at 10 a month.
You're going to have a mixed shift though from Dash 8 to Dash 9.
And so Dash 8s are actually going to come down in rate while the Dash 9s are coming up.
Your margins are higher right now your cash burn is lower per unit by far on Dash 8s but there is a lot of moving parts here as we think about the deferred profile.
Yes.
The question is when – on the Dash 9 when do the margins or the cash the unit margins on Dash 9s get better than they are in Dash 8? Well certainly when you look at the mix there is still going to be a lot of Dash 8s and that will be in the predominance of the deliveries for the next – a little while here next couple of years really they will still be dominated by Dash 8s.
So we’re obviously still expecting improvement on the Dash 9 and as I mentioned Joe even on the first six units we’re seeing the unit costs coming down.
So we’ve anticipated that in the current booking rates but I think mix really starts to come into play when you get much further out in the blocks and when you see the mix of Dash 10 Dash 9 and Dash 8s in there.
I think you’re still going to see some as we move further into the skyline you're going to see more people converting from Dash 8 to Dash 9 and potentially Dash 9 to Dash 10 just because of it fulfills their mission more efficiently so that mix will impact later in the block the near-term.
Can you compare the Dash 9 to the Dash 9 in terms of just early learning here what you're seeing? I mean you have given us a few different numbers but it's hard to string them all together.
Just compare and contrast a little bit? Yes.
I mean it's very hard obviously to compare the Dash 8s to the first Dash 9s considering where we are but I would say they are coming down the learning curve as we would expect them to so I think they are making good progress.
At the same time they are incorporating production efficiencies that we’ve realized on the Dash 8 they're getting into the Dash 9 and also working anywhere were they had opportunity to work any commonality on manufacturing processes and so on.
So again hard to compare tail number to tail number at this point because it's so early on the program but we're seeing the improvements that we would expect there we’ve certainly got more work to do but off to a good start.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
We will go to Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hey carter.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick clarification on a disclosure and a question.
Greg with respect to the Universe's program differences which were 1.8 versus the 1.5 in deferred production on the 87 I wondered if you could tell us what program that pertain to? And then additionally a question I just wanted to address kind of BCA absolute profit dollars and the guidance it looks like if you look at what you did in the – profit in the first quarter and were the guidance is for BCA for the year in absolute dollars.
On a kind of run rate basis it would imply the profit is down and the remaining three quarters just by the fact that the deliveries will be up and even on some profitable platforms like the 37 not just the 87.
So I wondered if you could help reconcile that and tell us how to think about what might be driving that or whether you got some conservatism there.
Sure.
to start with first – on the Universe's program almost 85% of that was 787 so as you look at it Carter you will see unit improvement quarter-over-quarter there and I always got to caution you that may not be the case every time because of the mix of deliveries through EMC Charleston and Dash 9s now and Everett but again we're seen in the right level of improvement unit-over-unit there so continue to focus in that area.
On the guidance certainly off to a good start early there's a lot of things obviously we’ve got to work through the balance of the year.
I think we've got good plans in place to do that.
We are making in some investments continuing to make investments in efficiency and the production system so you'll see some of those investments be hitting more later in the year that we will certainly benefit from years to come.
That we don’t have early on.
And then some mix in volumes differences between what were see in the service business in the first quarter through the balance.
So we are going to continue to focus on execution continue to focus on productivity and if we continue to do that will update you going forward but we are obviously focused on like I said those basic elements to continue to drive the production system and capture as much should be efficiency as we can.
Inc.</strong> On that unit versus program number there wasn't a negative delta of any significance for any of the other programs? – See more at: No.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question is from Sam pearlstein with Well Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC </strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
LLC </strong> Good morning.
If I look it looks like starting in 2014 a significant portion of long-term incentive comp now seems to be tied directly to total shareholder return.
I'm just trying to think about what does that make you do differently? How does that make you think about M&amp;A the returning 80% 85% of cash to shareholders and even dipping further into the cash balance? How do you get that stock to move the way you want it? Well I don’t see incentive program well is designed to change behavior I think is design to reinforce today that I think we have been talking about which is the balance innovation productivity customer satisfaction and shareholder returns.
I mean its and I wouldn’t characterize it has a seismic shift in our program we moved more of it toward what you would refer to its performance based if there is a TSR measurement that keeps us focused on relative stock price which sort of the question of all of those things.
And so we are just trying to tighten up and focus our management on the things that are important.
We are not trying to say different things are important.
LLC </strong> And if I can follow that up based on your buyback pace in the first quarter it seems like with the dividend you'll already have returned 85% of your free cash this year to shareholders.
Can we expect to see that going up?.
Yes yes I would say we are committed to deploying our cash efficiently and obviously up to a strong start in the first quarter.
We had 8.3 billion still under authorization that we planned use over the next two to three years so we will continue to focus in that area.
LLC </strong>  Great thanks.
Welcome.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much I have a two part question may half for Jim and half for Greg.
To go back to end of your opening comments about improved labor stability and more manageable benefit cost going forward.
How does that cause you to think about make versus buy comparing market based rates versus what you can potentially do internally and then I have a follow-up to that? Well I’ll swing at that one Howard I mean I think it’s a very important point you are raising with that question.
I think we have a highly valued workforce a number of whom are unionized; we now have a much more stable visible set of outcomes in front of us with them.
And which I do think coming out of an era where we may have on the margin relied too much on some outside work I think this gives us the option where its smart to do some of the work inside and I’m not trying to acquire big seismic shift.
I’m trying to say it gives us the option and given that it’s a highly valued workforce that has some new economics associated with it which is what we accomplished with the agreements I think it gives us the option to use the best mix of inside outside toward the end of the delivering reliably on-time highly valued products to our customers.
So I think its another arrow in the quiver as we strive to remain the world’s best aerospace company.
And then to follow that up I mean if I add back R&amp;D in the quarter to the operating margins at commercial and compare it with the year ago and maybe even adjust for 78 deliveries where there were 18 versus one.
You are on the order of almost 500 basis point improvement in profitability Greg I mean is there one or two things that you can point to I mean this did absorb some of the changes in the benefit class so it’s a pretty notable statement.
Yes Howard I would say predominantly improved performance on 737 and 777.
I would say were the biggest drivers in there but as I mentioned earlier and Jim has mentioned many times we're really focused on productivity across all cost elements certainly continue to work partnering for success but at but at the same time challenging our sales internally on any – all forms of costs period costs productivity and the 777 is a great example right 8 000 airplanes best selling aircraft ever and we’re still able to capture additional productivity gains there and so it's a great testament to the team's focus on that and that's really where you're seeing the improvement and obviously we’re trying – we are staying focused on that to continue to improve that going forward on all programs.
Thank you gentlemen.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Next we go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yes hey Good morning.
Good morning Ron.
Maybe just changing gears a little bit to the military side of the business.
When you think about the BMA portfolio and South Korea's decision and then the Brazilians’ decision to buy the Gripen C-17 winding down you've got Tanker you've got P-8.
Jim can you tell us maybe what’s your broad strategy on a portfolio and how do you sustain it? I mean I hear you that the Navy wants some F-18G to get put back in the budget.
And that probably will would be my guess but it’s a fight now right I mean it seems like it's a bigger fight now to keep those programs alive than it was before and how do you think about that down the road? Yes I mean there is no question that the budget discussion is getting more difficult and so every program is fighting for inclusion.
We're fortunate that a lot of our programs are in the budget come hell or high water but you do point out correctly that there are some moving pieces that we're going to have to manage and I suspect that they F-18 will – that F-18 line will remain open due to some possible orders from U.S.
Government which you characterize as probable I would tend to agree but we’ll see.
There's a number of International campaigns that will supplement that but C-17 is going away Tanker and P-8 will more than replace the C-17 when you look at the longer-term and there are some other big programs that are high priority for our country Long-Range Strike UCLASS T-X Trainer that I think will survive any budget scenario and Boeing is very well positioned on all three of those will we win all three of them hard to predict but winning one or two of them keeps the business intact and the industrial base intact even in a scenario where the fighters are winding down.
Remember the helos [ph] are growing and high demand around the world the satellites are growing in high demand around the world space is growing we’ve got the major program there on SLS.
So the core is growing the stuff that’s immediately going away is being replaced by more than it represents today and the longer-range programs a betting man would say will more than replace some of the tactical air pressure that we would see in the medium-term.
So whole equations near-term flat longer-term slow growth and very responsible management of margins all the way along that’s the role of that business in our portfolio.
May I ask a follow on to that? Sure.
Yes.
So when think about that business are there any – when we think about capital deployment I mean are there sort of anything in that military portfolio or area in that luxury portfolio that you would like to add onto from an M&amp;A perspective maybe bolt-ons or when you think about capital deployment into the military business how do you think about it and about investing in growth? I think about it in two dimensions smaller bolt on deals that provide vertical strength and that's ISR that’s cyber that's all the things that make platforms strong or make networks more secure.
There are either part of the platform we sell or something we can sell on its own the vertical strength and then services capability.
We have by far the largest base out there as you know; we've heard me say it we have a very large services business.
I think the services business can even get bigger and of course International you don't leave International out of the discussion because Boeing has a unique advantage we have a unique industrial base and engineering base around the world and affiliations because of our commercial business which is a leverageable thing when we start offset programs in support of military business.
So those capital in support of those initiatives on top of what I mentioned before which is more of a portfolio of products I think those are the strategies that will sustain this business and enable us to sustain margins and a slow growth environment.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
Our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you for taking my question.
I was hoping the team could give an update on partnering for success.
I think the analyst community realizes this is a big opportunity but has a lot of trouble translating it into the model.
Is there anything that you could offer in terms of the percentage of contracts that have been successfully negotiated? Have they been negotiated on track what on track means in any other granularity you are willing to offer?  Yes I mean again our assumption is a more for less world over the next couple of decades.
Okay and the partnering for success program offers a win-win to the suppliers that we do business with and the – and as I characterize before we are in the early innings of this game and I would say 25% to 30% of our base has reach some form agreement with us on how do go forward I would say another third we are in deep discussion we are close to coming to some agreements which are characterize by mutual benefit.
I mean this is not just we want share margin and be nice to us from that this is a broader business arrangement that does reflect the more for less world that I see out in front of Boeing.
And so these arrangements often do have price reduction associated with a significant price reduction associated with but also have benefits to our partners.
And so its we have already baked in substantial money into our EACs based on the agreements we’ve reached so far.
Now look this is a pure gravy I mean this the reason we are doing this as we have world out there is putting pressure on us that is putting cash pressure on us.
And we are trying to respond to that.
And so you see our margins sort of steadily improving that remains our objective.
And by the way we are working as hard in our internal costs if not harder then we are working on costs in our supply base I mean I feel quite proud and incredible standing in front of the supply base and telling them that I expect the same from them that I’m expecting from my team and so this is not a zero sum game this is a how do we win together game and the – you will – the financial impact of improvement we make in our business relationships we’ll be seeing will increase overtime over the next decade because a lot of these arrangements involve technology and procurement or things that will flow out and are growing over the next decade that’s when you will begin to see the impact but its already in the order of billion of dollars over a medium and long-term and there is more where that came from.
Its very thorough very helpful.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And that will be Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Greg I just wanted to ask you a quick question on the outlook in one of the BDS business is global services and support.
Yes.
You had nice margin performance there for the last several years and yet what you are suggesting over the next couple of quarters is a deceleration in the margin outlook.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the dynamic that might be going on there to help us understand why we would see a deceleration throughputs there.
Yes.
Well I mean Jason as you know especially when it comes to services and the thousands of contracts that exist any services organization mix really comes into play here.
So we are not anticipating any performance derogation at all its just purely mix quarter-over-quarter or through the balance of the year that is driving that but at the same time very focused on performance.
There is no question there is EOD budget pressure that’s out there that we continue to face day-in and day-out and manage our way through that but again the team is focused on executing flawlessly on the contracts they have and focused on productivity through the partnering for success and the market based affordability initiatives that Jim described.
So I wouldn’t read anymore into that other than what I just described.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) I’ll now return you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President and Corporate Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you we will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg if you have any questions following this part of the session please call our Media Relations team at 312 544 2002.
Operator we are ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time.
We ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And we’ll go to Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
And they have dropped out of queue.
We’ll go to Jon Ostrower with Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey Good morning guys Good morning Jon.
Good morning.
Just a follow-on question about partnering for success so you had last September announced the Heroux-Devtek order for the 777X landing gear.
That seems to be reflective of a few change in how Boeing was communicating about partner for success as far as its seriousness with the supply chain that this effort was going to continue whether they were on board were not.
As you kind of look at the current state of both side your supplier management organization with a new leader there and also getting companies like spirit to form up a final long-term contract as well as the absence of time with the Japanese as far as their role in 777X.
How do you see the relationship with those key players moving forward in the context of partnering for success and whether or not there is room to be essentially maneuvered to get the kind of cost-cutting that you guys are looking for on both sides? I think I would characterize the progress is good so far.
I think we’re finding yields that have mutual benefit significant benefit for our customers and as well as benefit for our partners and it sometimes takes time to find that – to find those deals as you've noted there's been a couple of events along the way that to reflect the seriousness of the discussions but we're making good progress and the benefit – the beneficiary of progress here will be the customers of the Boeing and the employees of Boeing.
Because it's going to create a stronger company and so I feel good about the progress while still at the same time recognizing that the discussions are not always easy.
They are difficult but Boeing's the ultimate strength we have here is that Boeing's perspective success is some based on our product lines and are people something that people want to be part of and so ultimately that what's bringing people together.
Next we’ll go to Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Hi Jim.
Good morning.
Quick question I’m just wondering if you could walk us through a little bit you’re thinking on how to approach Russia and Ukraine what Boeing's exposure is at this point? And if you see any risk to deliveries or titanium this year? Yes.
I mean the managing a global supply chain is chain is what we do its what we do every day and there are potential disruptions in many places around the world.
Right now everybody is focused on Russia as we are and we have good contingency plans in place if some unlikely but possible outcomes occur there.
And well to Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Can you hear me all right? Yes yes we can hear you.
Go ahead.
Okay I tried to pick up my handset last time so apologizes.
Coming through loud and clear.
Okay.
I wondered if you could talk about how does this effort to move engineering talent around help you.
And don't you need your engineers in the place where the products are built in order to have the best efficiency there? So how is moving them more efficient? And also don't you risk losing engineers in Washington say by these kinds of moves? Those are concerns obviously that have been raised locally in Washington state and I just wanted to hear how you might address that.
Yes.
I mean I think there is – the fundamental principle here is as the world's largest aerospace company that has been put together out of the path of a number of different – a number of different acquisitions over the years.
We have engineering talent around the company that is extraordinary.
And where we place work there is tension between engineering work being done right next to the product on one hand and on the other doing it in the place that has the best engineers for the task at hand or so-called centers of excellence and there will always be a balance there.
And what we're trying is achieve the right balance between centers of excellence and proximity that leaves us with the strongest company that will take us from $50 billion in sales we were a decade ago to numbers that are much bigger than that that we're headed towards and so it's an equation we're balancing all the time and what I do know is it will mean that we will not only be St.
Louis centric for certain kinds of engineers or Seattle centric for other kinds f engineers or Huntsville centric for other kinds of engineers it will be a blend all in the name of creating the strongest possible Boeing.
Our next question is from Dominic Gates The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jim.
Hi Dominic.
Hi I actually like to follow up on Al’s question.
Sure.
About the transfer of engineering work because it is top of mind with people here.
If we look at something like BR&amp;T shift to St.
Louis Charleston Huntsville out of Puget Sound whatever the business and strategic rational it seems like there are two possible negative impacts.
One is that there is because the growth elsewhere is less than the job eliminated here there is a net reduction and engineering positions.
And then secondly there is a terrible hit the morale among engineers here not just the ones who are not tagged for moving but everybody else here.
So are you – how do you address this concern about losing capability and hit to morale among your workforce here.
Well in the mines of most of us these moves strength in our company.
Strength in our engineering capability these are not designed in anyway say perform to week in our company is this pension between proximity and centers of excellence that I mentioned in answering Al’s question that were trying to balance.
Listen I realize that moving work around a very large corporation can be controversial at the local level I understand that and its but I think we eventually have to come together as a team and keep making progress this company is making progress and I think as we see further success in the future we will fight through the dislocations that happen not only in Seattle but in a lot of other places around Boeing as we try to optimize the right work placement for our engineering capability.
So we will keep working it.
Next go to Steve Wilhelm with Puget Sound Business Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hi Jim thanks for taking this one.
Sure.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about in terms of the 777X assembly.
What kind of robotization in automation are you planning both in terms of the wing assembly but also final assembly and how that going to look different from the current system.
We are always trying to move improve our manufacturing processes and a lot of our advance work is looking at some different forms of automation and we have not yet made the decision which specifically to deploy where and when but you will continue to see us make progress on productivity and automation beyond where we are today will play a role and it’s very important that we do that to maintain our competitiveness.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media.
And that will be Dan Catchpole with Herald.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk about the water quality rule that Washington is considering the company has raised its concerns with the dates that could affect company’s future in the state.
I was wondering if you could put any final point on that and give us an idea of what your concerns are about some of the possible unintended consequences of a stricter rule.
Listen I think this is one where we have been working very closely with the legislative and political leadership in the state of Washington we are very sensitive to both sides of this question obviously we want to find our way though this issue in a way that allows us to keep developing and manufacturing the world’s best airplanes but still be sensitive to some of the local sensitives.
I’m highly confident that we can find a solution here.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at 312 544 2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing-by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I am turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s second quarter 2014 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in today’s press release and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our Web site at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this Web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning.
Let me begin today by acknowledging the families of loved ones of those aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 17.
All of them and everyone affected by this horrific tragedy are in our thoughts and prayers at this time.
For the men and women and Boeing and others throughout our industry who are passionately committed to ensuring the safety and security of passengers and air crews this is a particular unsettling and painful moment in the history of civil aviation.
We are providing technical assistance to the investigation at the request of the NTSB which is supporting international authorities in the important work they have underway.
Turning back to the subject at hand this morning I’ll start with some comments on the quarter and our business environment.
After that Greg will walk you through details of our financial results and outlook.
Now let’s move to Slide 2.
Boeing delivered strong quarter operating performance across our production programs and services businesses with solid revenue double-digit core EPS growth and healthy cash generation.
Our strong positive performance through the first half of the year has allowed us to continue returning cash to shareholders and increase guidance for our full year EPS by $0.75 which includes approximately a $0.50 tax benefit.
Greg will discuss guidance in more detail in just a couple of minutes.
During the second quarter we did record a 272 million after tax charge on our fixed price U.S.
Air Force tanker program engineering and manufacturing development contract.
The charge was driven by higher spending needed to complete systems installation on the tanker to test that aircraft and maintain the schedule for delivering this vital capability to the war fighter.
As you may recall we noted in our Investors Conference that we were beginning to see some challenges in the build and systems installation process.
The increased spending is primarily related to additional engineering and systems installation rework required mainly to meet wiring specifications.
The issues at hand are well defined and understood which in no way mitigates our disappointment in having to take this charge but the actions we have taken to keep us on path to the next major program milestone which is to begin test line fully provisioned tanker aircraft in the first part of next year.
With a long-term potential market for the KC-46 tanker of up to 400 airplanes worth $80 billion it remains a franchise program for Boeing.
And we expect to realize strong returns over decades of production and in service support.
With that said let’s discuss our core operating performance during the quarter.
Revenue at Boeing Commercial Airplanes was $14.3 billion and operating margins increased to 10.8% a result of both the higher volume and a favorable delivery mix.
We delivered 181 commercial airplanes in the second quarter including 37 87-Dreamliners and we added net new orders of 264 airplanes.
So far in July we have booked another 282 orders including those announced by customers at the Farnborough International Airshow bringing our current net order total to 783 for the year already a book-to-bill greater than 1.
Boeing Defense Space and Security reported revenue in the second quarter of 7.7 billion.
During the period BDS captured numerous key contract awards including a $1.9 billion order of 44 U.S.
Navy and Royal Australian Air Force E/A 18 and F/A 18 aircraft a $700 million order for five years of AEW&amp;C in service support from the Royal Australian Air Force and a $200 million order for our 9th 702MP Intelsat satellite.
Significant program milestones included a successful missile defense system intercept test delivery of both the 4th P-8A P-8I to India and the 100th P-18G to the U.S.
Navy.
With that let’s turn to the business environment on Slide 3.
Global demand remains high for the superior fuel efficiency and economics provided by our family of commercial airplanes as recognized in the order totals I’ve mentioned earlier.
Global passenger traffic trends continue to be healthy and air cargo traffic is still gradually improving.
In addition to growth driven demand we continue to experience and foresee sustained high replacement demand where newer more efficient airplanes offer compelling economics and a rapid return on investment compared to keeping older less efficient airplanes in service.
Combining growth and replacement needs over the next 20 years we forecast global demand for nearly 37 000 commercial airplanes a 4% increase over the last year’s forecast.
Deferral requests from customers are still running well below at historically average while request to accelerate deliveries remain brisk.
This ongoing strong demand coupled with our already sizable and diverse backlog of more than 5 200 airplanes reinforces our planned production rates and outlook for sustained growth in the years ahead.
In the Twin-Aisle segment we continue to see healthy demand for both the 777 and the 777X which continue to out sell the competition by a wide margin giving us confidence in our ability to transition between the two airplanes.
As part of our focus on that transition we are looking to maximize production efficiencies with existing best practices from other programs as well as advanced new manufacturing technologies.
For example last week we unveiled a new robotic system for building 777 Fuselages this automated approach will increase first time quality reduce build times and improve work place safety for our employees.
On the 787 program we achieved major milestones with certification of 330 minute ETOPS and the on schedule certification in first delivery of the 787-9 to Air New Zealand.
Development of the 787-10 also is progressing to plan with the first delivery in 2018.
In the Single-Aisle segment demand for our new fuel efficient 737 MAX remains high with cumulative orders exceeding 2 100 airplanes from 43 customers the production bridge from today’s 737 to the MAX remains solid with the first MAX delivery in 2017.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; security we continue to see solid support for our major programs in the FY15 budget process.
We are encouraged by the actions taken in both the house and senate appropriations committees with regard to additional P-8s Apaches and EA-18G aircraft.
International Defense Space &amp; security business represented nearly 30% of BDS revenues during the quarter and remains at approximately 35% of the BDS backlog as we continue to leverage our unique One Boeing global advantage.
Our investments in technology and innovation for organic growth continue in areas such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligent surveillance and reconnaissance cyber security and the few but critical future large-scale programs identified as priorities by our customers like Long Range Strike UCLASS and the T-X Trainer.
The relative strength of our Defense Space &amp; Security business stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven and affordable and is being delivered on budget and on schedule.
We remain intensely focused on driving further efficiency quality and productivity gains to improve program profitability and fund investment and future growth.
Defense Space &amp; Security continues to make great progress on our market-based affordability initiative as we strive to take out another $2 billion in operating costs.
Along those lines benefits from our enterprise partnering for success approach with suppliers continue to accrue.
For example in collaboration with our partner Japanese aircraft industries we’re reducing cost of producing various 777 parts through value engineering a great joint effort that will help ensure the continued competitiveness of the 777 airplane in the marketplace.
In summary notwithstanding our disappointment over the charge on tanker our team delivered another strong quarter of core operating performance captured meaningful growth through new business and made great progress on further improving productivity and achieving important program milestones for us and our customers.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance Greg? Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let’s turn to Slide 4 to discuss our second quarter results.
Second quarter revenue of $22 billion was driven by 7% increase in commercial airplane deliveries and higher commercial services volume.
Core operating margins of 9% reflects solid productivity gains on production programs and across the services businesses offset by the impact of the tanker charge.
Second quarter core earnings per share increased 45% $2.42 a share on additional tax adjustments higher commercial volume and continued strong operating performance on core production programs.
During the quarter we recorded a tax benefit of $116 million for the 2007 and 2008 tax settlements that we discussed in April as well as an additional $408 million tax benefit related to the 2009 2010 tax settlement and the tax basis restoration.
The $425 million pretax charge or 272 million on an after-tax for the tanker program largely relates to additional engineering and manufacturing labor associated with challenges we encouraged in the wire installation as we move into the systems integration stage of final assembly on the initial test aircraft.
As we said before given the significant long-term Tanker market opportunity as Jim discussed we bid the EMD phase with the Tanker program aggressively with zero margin with plant profitability generated during the production phase.
Looking at our overall performance to-date on the program we have met all customer milestones and are proceeding with functional testing to be followed by the start of the initial Tanker flight testing in early part of next year.
As Jim noted despite our disappointment in encountering these challenges the issues are well understood no new technology is required to resolve them.
And we believe the program is sufficiently provisioned and has a solid path forward.
We are confident we’re taking the right steps to fulfill our promises to our customer.
Excluding the Tanker performance encountered in the quarter we continue to make great progress across other areas of the business.
Let’s now turn to commercial airplanes on Slide 5.
For the second quarter our commercial airplane business increased revenue 5% to 14.3 billion on 181 aircraft deliveries and including a record 124 737s and 30 787s.
The business also increased operating margins in the quarter to 10.8%.
Higher volume and our focus on efficiently executing on our rate increases and continuously driving productivity led a strong operating performance during the quarter than more than offset the $238 million pretax charge related to the EMD Tanker contract at BCA.
Commercial airplanes captured $17 billion in net orders during the quarter and backlog remained very strong at a new record of $377 billion over 5 200 aircraft equates to approximately seven years of production.
In the second quarter while at a declining rate 787 deferred production increased $1.1 billion to 24.2 billion largely driven by increase in our rate of production on the 787-9 and inventory pull ahead to efficiently optimize our production and minimize -8 disruption as we introduced the aircraft into our production system.
Based on further production stability plant contracted higher step down pricing and continued overall productivity improvements.
We expect the quarterly change in deferred to improve over the remainder of the year.
The cash flow profile of the 787 continues to improve as we drive productivity throughout the production system.
We continue to see good progress on key operational performance indicators and unit cost as we further implement production efficiencies and increase 787-9 production.
As we continue our efforts to optimize the production system and maximize efficiencies at the 10 per month rate the team continues to make progress in reducing 787-8 unit cost by approximately 13% and improved final assembly flow times by more than 10% over the past year.
Travel work has also been significantly reduced declining by greater than 30% since this time last quarter.
We are also continuing to see good progress in the 787-9 productivity where we’ve seen 50% improvement in unit cost and a 25% improvement of flow time from the first aircraft to the seventh aircraft to rollout the factory.
Overall we’ve made solid improvement on the 787 program.
However great deal of work ahead of us as we increase -9 productions introduce the -19 into early stages of our production system and continue to optimize to drive further productivity and profitability on the program.
We remain on track to deliver approximately 110 787s in 2014 and again the team remains focused on day-to-day execution and improving long-term productivity and profitability on the program.
Let’s now turn to the Defense Space &amp; Security results on Slide 6.
Second quarter revenue for our Defense business was 7.7 billion and operating margins were 7.5% a strong performance on production programs and favorable delivery mix offset by the $187 million pretax charge on the EMD Tanker contract.
Boeing military aircraft second quarter revenue declined to $3.5 billion reflecting delivery mix and operating margins of 4.7% in the quarter again impacted by the tanker charge.
Global Services and Support revenue at 2.3 billion reflects slightly lower volume in the maintenance mod and upgrade business and strong operating performance across that business drove operating margins to 11.6%.
Network and Space systems reported revenue of 1.9 billion on lower commercial satellite volume and generated operating margins of 7.8% in the quarter.
Defense Space and Security reported a solid backlog of $63 billion with 36% of our current backlog now from international customers.
Now turning to Slide 7 Boeing Capital’s net financing portfolio declined to $3.4 billion on run-offs that exceeded new aircraft volume.
Now look at cash flow on Slide 8.
Operating cash flow for the second quarter was 1.8 billion driven by solid operating performance and timing of receipts and expenditures.
With regards to capital deployment we paid $530 million in dividends to shareholders and repurchased 11.4 million shares for $1.5 billion in the second quarter.
We continue to anticipate completing the remainder of 6.8 billion repurchased authorization over approximately the next two years.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investment to support future growth remains the top priority for us.
Moving now to cash and debt balance on Slide 9 we ended the quarter with $11 billion of cash and marketable securities and our cash position continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us very well going forward.
Turning now to Slide 10 to discuss our outlook for 2014 we’re increasing our core earnings per share guidance for 2014 by $0.75 to now be $7.90 to $8.10 a share reflecting the $408 million tax benefit and strong core operating performance that more than offsets the impact of the tanker charge.
Guidance for revenue operating cash flow and delivery remains unchanged.
Commercial airplane operating margin guidance for 2014 has increased to now be greater than 10% on continued strong operating performance.
Over the remainder of the year we anticipate BCA margins to be impacted by higher 787 deliveries some additional fleet support and additional investments in productivity initiatives.
Defense Space and Security operating margin guidance for 2014 is unchanged at approximately 9.5% with lower margin guidance in BMA offset by higher guidance into the DS&amp;S business.
In summary second quarter performance reflects the strength of our backlog the strong demand for our products and services and our continued focus on driving productivity throughout the entire enterprise.
And furthermore as evidenced by the meaningful dividend increase and a higher share repurchase activity we continue to expect to deliver solid growth productivity and strong cash flows going forward.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jim for some closing comments.
Thanks Greg.
With a strong first half behind us and the team that is focused on sustained strong business performance we’re ready and committed to deliver on our strengthened outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Our priorities remain clear the profitable ramp up in production on our commercial airplane programs executing on our commercial and defense development programs with the emphasis on tanker driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen and position our defense business with investments in growth areas midst further international expansion and all the while providing increasing value to both our customers and shareholders.
With that said we’d now be happy to take your questions.
Despite the admonition it's going to be sort of a two part question and part of its -- so there's two parts to it.
If we think about it the tanker -- you probably missed the program cost by about 10%.
Can you help us understand why you've killed all the bugs in the program? And then second if we adjust margins for R&amp;D and maybe exclude what appears to be 787 revenues your margins on the core business continue to improve.
So the question really is with that kind of improvement why aren't we seeing some of that translate into even better numbers on the 787? Because if you are getting the core business there some should spill into the other business.
Thank you.
Let me address your second question first on margin improvement.
You are right I mean I think again the continuous focus on productivity whether it’s within our four walls or through the partnering for success initiatives is driving a lot of that.
And there has been improvement on the 787.
We’re certainly not at the levels that we expect.
So we have high expectations on driving margins further on that program but we have seen improvements on that program as well as I’d say on the core program in particular the 37 and the 777 so continuing the focus there Howard big priority for us big priority within partnering for success certainly at 787.
With regards to the tanker program you know certainly as we worked our way through the integration on that first aircraft and learning from that and understanding from the challenges we were faced with we certainly understand the scope of work that needs to be done on the balance of that aircraft as well as aircraft two through four and that’s giving us the confidence to understand again how to get completion.
This is not new technology or innovation this is basic kind of blocking and tackling who work through the redesign on the engineering effort primarily around the wire harnesses and then the manufacturing labor to work through installing those.
So we have got some of that activity completed on the first aircraft enough to move into first flight which will be late in the third quarter this year and then the balance will obviously be scoped that will be applied on those other airplanes.
If you look at kind of some of the things that are done on this program maybe versus some of the others lab so we have wet fuel lab we have a lighting lab and those are all put been put in place and right from the beginning of the program to de-risk the program.
So we have a very functional wet lab where we’re actually running fuel through pumps and valves to validate that on the ground so when we get in the air that minimizes that risk.
And so there’s things like that Howard that have been put in place that we’re continuing to make our way you know making progress on as well as working our way through the functional testing on that first airplane.
So that’s kind of how we’re thinking about it.
Again we’re comfortable about the path forward we’re committed to meeting the customer milestones through the balance of this contract and that’s what the team has been focused on.
And the long-term profitability I should also mention on this program and that objective is unchanged as we work into the production phase of the contract.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Greg just a question on the BCA margins which you know ex the charge look like they were very strong at 12.5 you know given the 787 mix it’s a pretty high number and I wondered if you could help us with that a little bit you know the universe’s program differences were about $2 billion and I wondered if you might give us some color on that and let us know if there’s any or there’re negative differences on any of the mature production programs and did those program on the 73 and 777 you mentioned they were better but were those at record margin levels or was there something else going on in terms of period expenses I know the R&amp;D was a little bit lower but any color you can provide on how those margins compared to the historical trend?  Yes I mean program to program they varied slightly I mean certainly 37 and 777 continue to have solid margins we did have a slight increase on the 787 as well and you know the team is doing a very good job manning during the period expense whether it’s the G&amp;A or the R&amp;D or the fleet support.
Now when you look in the back half obviously we got more 787s in there so we’ll have some dilution on the margin from that perspective and a little bit higher period expense that I talked about I think on the last call where we got more new customer introductions going on so we’re going to spend a little bit more on fleet support to ensure that our customers have a smooth transition of entering that airplane into service.
That predominantly was what’s driving the back half but again we’re staying very laser focused on looking for further opportunities there and continuing to drive productivity but I would tell you that these safe programs are running very well and they’re doing a very good job executing on these rate breaks at the same time continuously focused on productivity.
And were the 37 and 777 differences negative?  Negative I’m sorry I don’t quite understand.
Meaning were they -- did you subtract from those programs meaning was their unit profitability better than their program profitability in the quarter?  Yes.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you good morning.
When you look forward over the next I would say four to five years and think about how you’re investing in BCA and you go through completing the 787 in max models and then you’re moving forward the 777x how should we expect R&amp;D and CapEx to go over that time period what’s the trajectory projection we should think about for those.
Well let me maybe I’ll start with CapEx and then we talk more about R&amp;D.
But certainly on CapEx I think for next year you’re going to see levels from all of this year and that predominantly almost all of it really investing in the future so this is all about the additional great breaks coming up along with productivity.
Jim talked about the 777 automation so we are making some investments in the production system as well but again a lot of that is driven on the growth so after that Doug I think we’ll start to see the CapEx moderate at I’ll say kind of more normal levels at a stable production rate going forward.
On the R&amp;D certainly you know we will peak out here on R&amp;D on the MAX in about 2015 obviously 787-9 ramping down but -10 ramping up and then feathering in 777X and -10 in there so we’re continuing to look at those profiles over the next couple of years and how they will play out in meeting our entry into service date but we’ll see slight increases in the next year but again we’re managing it very tightly and I know Jim has talked a lot about how we’re managing development we talk about a lot at the Investor Conference and we’re continuing to do that optimize our spending.
But should we think about it as these sort of ebb and flow here that things should be somewhat flat when we expect with the 777X as we’ve seen improvements in the past some kind of a ramp up out in the 18-19 timeframe is that we looking at that type of a difficult trajectory?  I’ll jump in here Greg is tired Doug.
Okay.
Listen this development program the two design pillars of the remaining part of the decade were aborting major pileups of engineering with concurrent work being done and the second pillar was not absorbing as much risk in each development I mean in other worlds capitalizing on some of the hard fought technology hands would have to not adding risk to that.
And so I think those comments imply a design on some of pressure but nothing like your question imply I mean our plans do not have big pileups in R&amp;D along the way is more characterized by very manageable no major year-over-year spikes now we’ll report on that as we get close to this but the design of this is moderation would be a word that I use rather than precipitous in any given year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we go to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Jim and Ray I was hoping you guys could maybe reflect a little bit on Farnborough and what transpired there particularly just given the A330 NEO announcement and you think it might affect the competitive bounce a bit and as well as 777 I think some of that I hope to see a little bit more other activity there but I understand that these campaigns can take a while to pull up?  Well we did have a 150 777X orders at least the four Farnborough but look the competitive question and I know that’s what you’re really driving here one way to look at the A330 NEO is that it replaces an ambition to have a second A350-800 model.
So in some respect it’s a tread of older technology re-engine up for newer technology and I’m not sitting with the Airbus guys as they make these calls but F1 we’ll look at it old technology for new and whereas we’ve got in the wide body space five new airplanes all of which exceed the competitive performance of what we’ve seen from our competitor and so I really like that line up and I think if you look at year-to-date orders wide bodies for example I think you will see a very healthy dose of I forget exactly someone to mid 200s wide bodies and I think with the Emirates cancellation our competitor may be negative for the year.
So that is a more strategic timeframe than what happen during three days at Farnborough but I really like the relative strength of our wide body offerings those five air planes all new all selling briskly with a sort of a mix of new technology and reengineering technology that our competitor has.
There is a little bit of a concern among investors that book-to-bill might start to flip I was hoping that you could offer a little bit of perspective on that during your comments there.
I mean I think we continue to see risk demand as we’ve said I mean as I mentioned in my remarks deferral requests are well below historical averages for our company move the airplane up accelerate the delivery far above what we’ve historically had and the reason for that is this new technology that we’re offering pays back so quickly even when compared to airplanes that haven’t reach their full life out there I mean you can for the least rate you have to pay incremental capital you have to deploy the payback is so quick with oil prices that don’t promise to come down with the geopolitical world that we are in payback so quickly that this replacement demand is half or some segments more than half of the demand not just growth not just underlying GDP growth or growth in aircraft.
So it is in our book-to-bill for example in July is already above one-to-one and we’re halfway through the year.
So we haven’t seen signs of it yet.
I realized that it is a professional sport to call the cycle in this industry that we’re in but this industry has not seen this kind of replacement economics since the 707 and that was in the mid 1950s where the payback was so dramatic and the performance was so different.
So we’re seeing those signs of it yet.
That’s a lot of the great color.
Thanks a lot.
You’re welcome.
Yes so your deferred on the 787 went up by 1.1 billion maybe give us some color on how much that was the rate increase and how much was the inventory pull forward which is essentially discretionary move on your part to improve? And give us some color on the pattern in the third and fourth quarter.
I mean we’re going to get the zero and the impact on the deferred from the fact that while A330 NEO is probably not as efficient as the 787 it’s certainly priced lower given the orders they have received and you know what response you’re going to make and what impact does that have on 787 deferred? Thanks.
Okay let me -- I will talk about the deferred and then I’ll hand it over to Jim who can talk more talk about kind of pricing on the 787.
But you’re right our airplane is much more efficient.
So on the 787 on deferred Cai about a third of that growth we saw there was inventory pull head to support -9.
And as I talked about in my opening remarks I mean seven airplanes and we’ve seen 50% increase in unit cost so it really gives you a sense of the cadence and the work that people are focused on to improve productivity on the program as you think about the kind of the path forward to the end of the year certainly learning curve.
We got to continue to come down the learning curve as we have and that includes obviously on the -8 but obviously with more -9 in the flow so got to continue to work that.
We do have some supplier step down through the balance of the year.
There is some model mix movement that will take place in the balance of the year that should be favorable for deferred.
And then as you’ve mentioned I mean quarter-over-quarter I’d say month-over-month we are making inventory decisions to pull forward components if they’re ready get them into the pictures and do all much pre-work as we can and frankly that’s why you’ve seen us being able to stabilize that production system.
So that’s kind of the given take that’s going to take place through balance of the year.
At the same time we’re not doing as much pull ahead as we have because we’re more stable at end of month.
It’s really-really around -9.
And then again continue to focus on stabilizing the production system in all positions of the assembly.
So that’s kind of I’ll see the moving pieces as you look through that end of the year Cai.
As I said to you certainly this is a big focus area for us but the day-to-date focus on that program is on unit cost and cash that’s the focus which ultimately I recognized in deferred but that’s with that team is executing to -- again good progress but again we got to continue to comedown that learning curve through the balance of the year and going forward to drive profitability and ultimately impact deferred.
Yes Cai your question about A330 NEO as compare the most comfortable airplane would be the 787-10 in terms of remission.
Look our strategy is to produce the most capable airplane and then share the value with our customers that that value produce and obviously the values to components one is efficiency that’s all about fuel big advantage -10 compare to the A330 NEO in the neighborhood of mid double digits kind of advances and also performance.
I mean I think the reach of the airplane little greater.
And so we feel very comfortable even under scenarios where as your question implies they would have to accept less-price for a less capable airplane.
We feel very comfortable when we sort of model that all out that our returns are good and the capability of our airplane sustains value for both us and our customers.
And so I think I understand why they made this decision.
It’s a far less capable airplane and don’t have to make decisions on how they price it and how they market it.
But these aren’t pancakes we’re dealing with.
These are airplanes major investments that produce a lot of value and they are good.
I was intrigued with the comment that you increased by a small amount the accrual rate for 787.
I think that's if I'm not mistaken the first time you've done that except for the time that you extended the accounting quantity by quite a bit.
And I was just wondering if you could give us any detail on what gave you the confidence to do that.
Well certainly again coming back to partnering for success that was one of the bigger elements of the movement within the quarter Joe.
And like we talked in the past on the partnering for success efforts 787 is the big our number one priority.
So started to see some of that come together with our suppliers and reaching agreements and we booked it.
And that’s essentially what drove the change quarter-over-quarter.
Greg do you feel like that there's room for small steps if things keep going in that direction in the coming periods? Or that 787 margin is something we are going to have to wait a while for or is this something that -- how do you feel about I guess the prospects? I think it’s going to take time Joe there is no question about it.
I mean quarter-over-quarter I wouldn’t expect a lot of movement.
But we have a plan by supplier by component and working with those folks.
So it really kind of gets to how we can accelerate those discussions or negotiations and reach up an agreement.
The more time we spend on partner success the more mature we’re getting with those discussions and we expect to do that.
But it’s going to take some time but clearly again it’s the number one priority and focus and we have a plan and so we got to continue to execute that and work with our partners.
Because the long-term certainly prospects of this program are extremely beneficial to everybody including our suppliers.
So we continued on the journey that we started here.
Greg maybe a question for you on cash flow it's been pretty strong year-to-date when you consider the headwinds from the 67 and the union bonus.
And I look at the full year and there's been no raise there and I'm assuming the tax benefits are no cash.
But it still would imply the second half of 2014 cash flow is half of what it was in the second half last year despite lower deferred production growth.
So maybe can you just walk us through how much conservatism is there or other puts and takes? I mean remember last year too we had a lot of timing benefit very late in the fourth quarter which I don’t expect at the same level as we were going to experience this year.
We got more cash taxes by close to $1 billion this year compared to last year and again some of that is back loaded when you compare.
But I would just say very focused obviously on generating cash we’re comfortable with our approximately $7 billion cash flow and if we see that improving through the next quarter then we’ll update our guidance going forward.
But at the same time when you look at the long-term prospects on cash flow for the company that is unchanged I mean delivering on this backlog and executing to our plans is going to generate a significant amount of operating cash going forward and we’re going to deploy that in the most efficient and effective way possible.
So continue to focus on Myles again it’s hard to compare fourth quarter or third quarter this one.
Because a lot of moving pieces within the quarter but again if we see opportunities to improve that we will but we’re comfortable with where we’re right now.
Jim just maybe you could just give us some thoughts on the outlook at BDS.
I mean your backlog continues to be very strong.
Book-to-bill was a little under one but you gave some comments in your opening remarks about the longer-term outlook there.
I mean do you think that we're going to be able to sustain kind of this $30 billion-plus revenue number given your outlook?  Yes I do I mean I think the math for that business is over time tanker replaces C-17 actually little more when you look at the numbers.
There was a couple of big development programs coming up.
Three that I mentioned in my remarks there is a couple of other ones.
Our opportunity to win those a couple of those is good which would mitigate risk on the fighter side as the F-18 and the F-15 over the next decade face some setting.
And then the upside is international.
I mean one of the unique things Boeing has is strong company to country relationships built over the years largely in our commercial business that has broad industrial base and cooperation in many of world’s key countries that help us in campaigns both on the BDS and the commercial side.
And there is a lot of action out there.
I mentioned the 35% of our backlog I would probably say somewhat more than that as a percentage of our discussions of the pipeline out there.
And historically we’ve done well.
So that adds up an equation with the helicopters and space and some of the other things staying flat or slightly up.
That adds up to an equation of flattish growth with maybe some upside.
But with the U.S.
defense market being what it is.
I think we want to keep our feet underneath this our costs under control because there is a unpredictability about that.
We think we’ve got that risk covered.
We think we understand it but it remains a bit of a wildcard and we want to be ready if there is a wildcard and I think we will be.
That’s helpful.
I’ll stick to one thanks.
Greg you talked about improvement on the 787-9 in terms of the unit cost.
As you look out when would you -- I think you talked about the 787-9 being better from a cash perspective long-term than the 787-8.
When do you see the 787-9 catching the 787-8 from a cash perspective? And what are you assuming in terms of the 787-9 as a percentage of the production mix over the next 12 to 18 months?  I would say David you’ll see that probably around the 2016 timeframe when you look at what’s in the production flow and the mix between -8 and -9 that’s probably where you’ll really start to see the benefit of the -9 system.
I’m sorry I lost you on the second question.
Just what you're assuming when you talk about deferred coming down per quarter.
What you're assuming for the 787-9 as a percentage of the production mix over the next 12 to 18 months.
I can tell over the cost space you’re looking at more about a 40% of that cost space is assumed to be about that -9 some of that obviously is already done and then there’s some assumptions in there about key customers that we will convert from -8 to -9 but generally that’s kind of the profile you see over the entire cost space.
Okay great.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could just address the situation that got a lot of press around the Ex-Im Bank and the financing.
I'm just time to think about if that were not to get renewed should we start to see BCC's portfolio start to turn in the other direction? Or what would it take for BCC's assets to start to go back up?  Well first of all Sam I think the chances are good.
My assessment is that the the bank will be reauthorized now there’s risk it won’t okay but I just want to give you my view and so addressing that risk.
You know the Ex-Im bank has come down as a percentage of our customer base in terms of what percentage relies on them and that has reflected a lot of liquidity in the capital markets but there are times when the markets are less friendly that the Ex-Im bank does go up and becomes a significant percentage.
The -- I think the issue is more about level playing fields with our competition than it is Boeing goes under without the Ex-Im bank okay.
I mean I think this idea of unilaterally disarming US manufacturers while European manufacturers continue to get copious kinds of Ex-Im type support is something that -- and that traces back to -- I don’t think the political infrastructure will do that.
So it’s more an issue of that of losing some campaigns out there where that is important if we didn’t have the Ex-Im bank.
Scrambling using our balance sheet somewhat more and we worked with the net earning assets at BCC down significantly over the last few years.
So there’s some room there but it would be more an issue of competitiveness than it would be an issue and that’s a big issue okay it’s a huge issue that it would be the balance sheet of Boeing and the credit rating of Boeing being threatened.
Thank you.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Jim I was wondering if you wouldn't mind just talking a little bit more about the cycle itself.
And your view on how this cycle plays out.
We don't have any production rate increases per se in front of us for a couple of years.
Can you -- how long do you think we can sustain production rates over the course of the rest of this decade? What other growth drivers might you have if we are plateauing in production per se? And are there plenty of opportunities out there to drive earnings growth through margin expansion if you have plateaued from a production perspective?  Yes I mean just starting at the highest possible level I mean one of the reasons we like being the world’s largest aerospace company participating in many sectors some commercial some defense some state there obviously is some risk mitigation value of diversification some things are up some things are down so that’s an overall thought and we still like that thought.
The -- but I know your question is more centered on the commercial part of our company and again you know we are in a driven by Boeing in a big technology change out cycle here that is responding to oil prices you and I can whether it’ll be $90 or a $130.
These airplanes payback at any considerable oil price in this unfriendly world we all live in.
So starting with the 787 and it’s now flowing through the rest of our wide-body product line promises to flow into our narrow-body product line sometime in the next decade and the next decade we don’t know yet.
This offer huge efficiency and maintenance advantages that do encourage people to retire plans earlier than they would where these alternatives not available so and they pay back.
So every sign I see is that this technology change out is going to led just look at our airplanes 777X is going to keep going over the next decade or so that I can see right now.
So that’s the difference compared to normal cycles.
And so that supports the argument that says it’s extended and it’s really hard to call.
And we have a lot confidence in our production rates they do drop a little bit in ’17 and ’18 and in the 777 and in the 87 that we talk about.
So we see the extended growth market here.
Okay.
And then on the earnings growth side in that context and their focus on margins maybe little bit about the big driver see there?  Well I think the big drivers are going to be in our commercial business.
We tend to have lumpy earnings when we take too much risk in development.
And I think which is why the mantra of de-risking the decade in front of us has been something that where we’ve all after having gone through 787 experience we all thought a lot about and so flowing the right amount of technology into the 787-9 787-10 the 737 MAX 777X-8 and 777X-9 enough to capture enough of this technology advantage but not more than people willing to pay for or more than what drive risk that we’re not willing to absorb we try to think a lot about that and as I imply and I think it was I forgot who ask the question it might have been done on R&amp;D.
By design we sort of got a stability both in our research and development spending and in the amount of risk associated risk were taking during that and when you ask stability in this business and you get these programs driving margins as we’ve I think demonstrated over the last three to four years you can make money in this business and I think you’re going to see more of that.
That is helpful thank you.
Sure.
Thank you we will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg if you have any questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at 312 544 2002.
Operator we are ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Jim you have got a big birthday coming up next month.
And can you just walk us through what we can expect on August 23? Will you be at your desk and has the Board approved you staying on past age 65?  The heart will still be beating.
The employees will still be cowering.
I’ll be working hard there is no one to decide where continuing to build the succession plan and alternatives to succeed me eventually but there is no discussion of it yet.
So there still be asking questions of me.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jim and Greg can you talk a little bit more just in simple terms on the tanker of how the design went off in terms of the wiring harnesses? And it seems like a pretty straightforward problem.
What caused the issue?  Just like I’d say any development program once you reach the point of integration whether you’re integrating the structure of the systems and wiring and that’s where you’re really give the capability of the how things are coming together in the efficiency.
Structure of those airplanes came together extremely well where the challenges laid were really around the wiring and the wire harnesses themselves and redesigning effort to either move those wires or do whatever rework is required is really what we’re dealing at.
We started to experiencing that on the -- started the integration on that first airplane and that continued which really required us again to put some additional effort in place to go back and do redesign on those harnesses and along with that system installation and the manufacturing labor associated with it.
That is basically what is it and again it’s well understood as I mentioned prior to one of the questions it’s not a technology leap.
We know how to do it.
We have done some of it already on that first airplane so we’re building off of that experience.
And again we’re looking continue to de-risk the program and drive performance through the balance which is again a reason why we put those labs or maybe investment in some of those technology labs and we’re already seen the benefits of making that investment today.
So team is very focused they know what needs to get done and it’s all about focusing on meeting customer commitments and that is our priority at this time.
And we’ve got a plan to go execute to do that and it’s a day-to-day hour by hour and the team is very focused on again the task at hand.
Going back to the Ex-Im issue -- you seemed to imply a little bit that the -- you might be prepared to use the balance sheet but -- if you had to.
But given that we know the arguments on both sides Jim would you be prepared to support some reform of Ex-Im going forward that perhaps restricted or limited the either the type of aircraft or the type of customer that had availability to it which would at least preserve the broader competitive position even if perhaps Ex-Im fell a bit behind what the ECAs offer.
But would you support some sort of reform? Well I think we have been supportive of reform over the last number of cycles.
I mean as you know the terms and conditions are a function of a treaty that basically the OECD nations debate and sign and we have supported over the last couple of cycles increasing rates increasing fees making both of those more commercial term in nature.
So that -- and do it in concert with the other ECAs around the world.
And we’ll continue to support this move toward more close alignment with commercial terms and we’ll continue to support all kinds of efforts like that done in concert within the treaty.
I think where we get uncomfortable is when we say oh tractors you can’t land against tractors or gas turbines or wide-body airplanes.
I mean why are -- why do we pick certain elements that some raise as not in need of support while the rest of the economy is.
I support none of that.
Hi gentlemen.
In terms of the robotization of the 777X line I wondered if you could talk about plans to expand that throughout other production lines in the future and also what that has to do with the competitiveness in terms of Europe and maybe China way in the future.
I think automation is and I know you’re aware is we’re starting with the 777 Fuselage.
Lot of good work being done hope of expanding it to both improve the quality of our airplanes to cost of which we produce them and the safety for our work and safety for our workforce.
And yes it is fair to say that overtime we would anticipate expanding that capability.
There are other examples besides automation of the fuselage.
There is paint shop 777 wing.
I was out in Seattle recently and toward that a terrific job being done using automation to paint major structures.
So we are focused on that to improve our cost quality and lives of our workers.
And we will expand it overtime.
Operator we have time for one last question please.
On the tanker issue we have seen a couple of warnings from DOCD and the DAO that the program could run 6 to 12 month late.
And they haven't said anything about wiring harnesses or problems with the wiring.
They've talked more about concerns about software and the aggressive flight test rates.
Can you address those issues and are those things under control? Or is there a risk of further delays and further cost increases? We don’t see that today.
I think on the flight test we have from the very beginning as part of the fixed-price development contract proposed a more commercial like flight test program.
Our customer has agreed with us.
When viewed parametrically it seems shorter than other flight tests that are done in other ways not as efficiently.
So we disagree with that assessment.
And other than the problems that Greg described on the wiring separation wiring bundles some of that detailed design.
The rest of the program is moving along well in part because of these laboratories we’ve set up at our own cost to de-risk systems quickly to fuel system before installing it on the airplanes.
So doesn’t mean that something can’t crop up in the future but we don’t see it now.
That concludes our earnings call again.
For members of the media if you have further questions please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you for standing-by.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Boeing Company’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I am turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for the Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s third quarter 2014 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in today’s press release and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our Website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
I’ll start with some comments on the quarter and our business environment.
After that Greg will walk you through details of our financial results and outlook.
Now let’s move to slide two please.
Boeing delivered another strong quarter with solid operating performance across our production programs and services businesses which drove a 19% increase in our core earnings per share.
This performance has allowed us to continue returning cash to our shareholders through our strong dividend and share repurchase program.
Revenue at Boeing Commercial Airplanes increased 15% to $16 billion and operating margins were strong at 11.2%.
We delivered 186 commercial airplanes in the third quarter including 31 787 Dreamliners and we added net new orders of 501 airplanes.
Boeing defense space and security revenue was $8 billion in the third quarter and operating margins increased to 10.8%.
BDS captured numerous key contract awards in the quarter including NASA’s commercial crew spaceship program with a potential value of $4.2 billion.
And the first order for the 02 Phoenix small satellite.
Significant BDS program milestones include delivery of the first Chinook helicopter under the latest multi-year contract with the U.S.
Army successful launch in orbit of the seventh GPS IIF satellite and delivery of the first four upgraded Airborne Warning and Control System aircraft for France.
With that let’s turn to the business environment on slide three.
Strong growth in the commercial airplane market continues to drive demand that supports our planned production rate increases over the remainder of the decade.
Net new orders for the year of 1011 are well above our planned output and our record backlog of more than 5500 aircraft represents more than seven years of production at current rates.
Given the 737’s robust backlog of more than 4000 orders we plan to increase production from the current rate of 42 per month to 47 in 2017 and then increase production again to 52 per month in 2018.
Furthermore the compelling value proposition of the 787 and its sizeable backlog of more than 850 orders are driving production rate increases from today’s per month to the previously announced rate of 12 per month in 2016 and then up to 14 by the end of the decade.
We also are increasing production on the 767 from the current rate of 1 per month to two per month in 2016.
Notwithstanding a somewhat richer mix of global economic and geopolitical developments throughout this year which we are monitoring very carefully global passenger traffic trends are strong and air cargo traffic continues to gradually improve although the latter still remains a watch item for us.
We continue to see replacement demand as an increasingly important market driver with airlines opting to introduce newer more efficient airplanes with compelling economics and a rapid return on investment rather than keeping older less efficient models in service.
Our new technologically advanced airplanes not only have far better fuel efficiency and lower maintenance costs but also often deliver higher passenger and cargo revenue increase residual values greater range and a better overall passenger experience.
All of these elements provide significant value to our customers over the life of the aircraft.
When we look at that combination of growth and replacement needs over the next 20 years we forecast global demand for nearly 37 000 new commercial airplanes.
Near term the customers continue to demonstrate confidence in their fleet plans with deferral requests still running well below the historical average and we continue to have requests to accelerate deliveries.
This ongoing strong demand coupled with our large and diverse backlog underpins our outlook for sustained growth in the years ahead.
In the Twin-Aisle segment we continue to see healthy demand for both the 777 and the new 777X which are outselling the competition by a wide margin giving us confidence in our ability to transition between the two airplanes.
We also continue to enhance the value proposition of the 777 for customers with our relentless drive of product improvements that will further increase operating efficiencies.
Year to date we have 45 orders and commitments for the 777.
We expect demand for the 777 to remain healthy through the end of this decade with an anticipated average order capture around 40 to 60 airplanes per year to support the transition to the 777X.
We’ll continue to evaluate our options for the most efficient way to transition from the current 777 to the 777X as the new airplane enters final assembly in the 2018 timeframe.
We are also introducing new manufacturing processes and technologies that allow us to further optimize the 777X production system.
As we mentioned before a smooth production transition is a top priority on this program.
On the 787 program we achieved several noteworthy milestones including delivering the fifth 787-9 as well as the first 787-9 with GE powered engines.
Both the GE and Rolls-Royce engine types are now certified on the 787-9.
In addition our Charleston facility delivered its first 787 at its planned production rate of approximately three per month which supports the overall current production rate of 10 per month.
Production performance at Charleston continues to progress nicely.
In the Single-Aisle segment demand for our new fuel efficient 737 MAX remains high with cumulative orders totaling nearly 2300 airplanes from 47 customers.
The production bridge from today’s 737 to the MAX remains solid with the first MAX delivery expected in 2017.
Turning to defense space and security we continue to solid support for our major programs in the FY15 budget process.
We are encouraged by the actions taken in the both the House and Senate Appropriations Committees with regard to additional Apaches and EA-18G Growlers as well as strong support from both on P-8 and Tanker.
Our international business represented 28% of BDS revenues during the quarter and 37% of the BDS backlog as we continue to leverage our unique One Boeing global advantage.
Our investments in technology and innovation for organic growth continue in areas such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance and the critical few large scale future programs that are priorities for our customers like Long Range Strike space launch system UCLASS and the T-X trainer.
The relative strength of our defense space and security business stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven and affordable.
We continue to focus on driving further efficiency quality and productivity gains to improve program profitability and fund investment in future growth.
As part of these efforts BDS continues to make strong progress on our market based affordability initiative as we strive to reduce operating costs by another $2 billion to ensure competitiveness through the ongoing downturn in domestic defense spending.
Our announcement in December of plans to consolidate some of our defense service and support work into Oklahoma City and St.
Louis is one example of those efforts.
Decisions that affect our workforce are never easy but we are fortunate to have a growing commercial business with employment needs that have helped mitigate some of the impact on our people.
In summary our team is executing on our business strategy by meaningfully growing revenues generating solid operating performance on improved execution and capturing strategic new business.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let’s turn to slide four to discuss our third quarter results.
Third quarter revenue increased 7% to $23.8 billion driven by growth in our commercial airplane business.
Core operating margins increased to 10.2% reflecting solid productivity gains in both businesses.
Third quarter core earnings per share increased 19% $2.14 on higher volume and continued strong operating performance.
Let’s turn now to our commercial airplane business on slide five.
The third quarter our commercial airplane business increased revenue 15% to a record $16.1 billion on a 186 airplane deliveries.
The solid BCA operating margin of an 11.2 % reflects strong program execution offset by the impact of higher 787 and 747 deliveries and higher fleet support for new customer introductions.
Commercial airplane captured $69 billion of net orders during the quarter and backlog achieved a new record of $430 billion and over 5500 aircraft in seven years of production.
In the third quarter 787 deferred production cost increased $947 million to $25.2 billion largely driven by the increase of 787-9 production and the continued inventory pull ahead to efficiently optimize in production and minimize disruption as we introduce the aircraft into our production system.
Similarly on the 787-10 we’ll continue to look for opportunities to accelerate our build plan in early 2015 to mitigate early introduction risk while preparing to increase the overall 787 production rate to 12 per month in 2016.
The team continues to reduce unit cost and improve float time on both the 787-8 and 787-9 through continued focus on optimization of the production and maximizing efficiencies.
Overall we continue to make solid progress on the 787 program however we still have work ahead of us as I said introducing the 787-9 in production preparing for the 12 per month rate and again introduction the 787-10 while drive efficiencies across all aspects of the program.
The team remains focused on solid day-to-day execution risk mitigation and improving the long-term productivity and profitability and cash flow going forward.
Turning now to defense space and security results on slide six third quarter revenue for our defense business was $7.9 billion and operating margins increased to 10.8% due to strong performance across the business.
Boeing Military Aircraft third quarter revenue increased 3% to $3.5 billion reflecting higher volume on our P-8 program.
BMA operating margins also increased to 12.4% on continued solid program execution.
Global services and support revenue of $2.3 billion and operating margins were 9.7% largely due to deliver mix in the quarter.
Network and space systems reported revenue of $2 billion reflecting timing of ULA launches and lower government satellite volume.
Operating margins increased to 9.3% in the quarter on strong program execution across the portfolio.
Defense space and security reported a solid backlog of $60 billion with 37% of our current backlog now from international customers.
Turning now to slide seven Boeing Capital’s net financing portfolio increased slightly to $3.5 billion on some new aircraft volume.
Now turning to cash flow on slide eight.
Third quarter operating cash flow before pension contributions was $1.7 billion driven by higher commercial airplane production rates and solid operating performance somewhat offset by timing receipts and expenditures in the quarter.
During the quarter we made a plan to discretionary pension contribution of $750 million.
With regard to capital deployment we paid $525 million in dividends to shareholders and repurchased 8 million shares for a $1 billion in the third quarter bringing our year to date repurchase activity to 39 million shares or $5 billion.
The capital deployment to date continues to demonstrate the strength of our portfolio and our backlog and our commitment and confidence in the business performance going forward.
We expect to complete the remaining $5.8 billion repurchase authorization over approximately next one to two years.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investment to support future growth remains a priority for us.
Let’s move now to cash and debt balances on slide nine.
We ended the quarter with $10 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Our cash balance continues to provide sound liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Turning now to slide 10 we’ll discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2014.
We are increasing our core earnings per share guidance for 2014 by $0.20 to now be $8.10 to $8.30 on continued solid execution.
Based on strong operating performance combined with the impact of timing of receipts and expenditures we are increasing our operating cash flow guidance before pension contributions for 2015 to now be greater than $7 billion.
In addition as a result of our continued focus on execution and disciplined cash management we are lowering our outlook for capital spending by $200 million to now be approximately $2.3 billion for the year.
This performance allowed us to further return cash to shareholders as we continue to aggressively repurchase shares and pay dividends.
Remain confident in our long term cash generation potential given the focus on execution our ability to deliver on the unprecedented backlog and our unmatched portfolio of products and services.
We are also increasing our BCA operating margin guidance to be approximately 10.5% on improved operating performance.
In the fourth quarter we expect BCA margins to be impacted by higher deliveries of 747 and 767 some additional planned fleet support costs for new customer introductions higher R&amp;D on the 787-10 and 777X as well as additional investments in productivity initiatives.
In summary third quarter financial performance reflects the strength of our backlog the strong demand for our products and services and our continued focus on driving productivity throughout the enterprise.
With that I’ll turn it over to Jim for some closing comments.
Thank you Greg.
With three solid quarters behind us we are focused on closing out the year with continued strong business performance that will allow us to meet our customer commitments and our investments in the future recognize and reward our team for their work and continue to return cash to shareholders.
Our priorities in 2014 and beyond remain clear profitably ramp-up in production on our commercial airplane programs executing on our commercial and defense development programs driving productivity and affordability throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen and position our defense business with targeted investments and further international expansion and all the while providing increasing value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Now Greg and I would be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will be from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Yes good morning.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning Doug.
When you look at the year so far and you’ve had very strong margins in BCA in this quarter your unit margin turned significantly positive which is new.
Yes.
But on the other side deferred production on the 787 moved slightly above your guidance level and I would say free cash flow for the quarter was low given your guidance even before pension.
So I’d like to understand better how you see the operating performance the strong operating performance we’ve seen turn into cash going forward? And specifically when do you see the 787-8 and the 787-9 each turning cash positive? And what else drove the high unit margins in the quarter is that something that we should expect to continue? Okay.
Well Doug let me start with cash flow.
Certainly you are right I mean strong execution across the business and across the programs and that’s certainly driving our cash flow to date.
And as I mentioned before there’s timing quarter between quarter when you – relates to advances and milestone payments.
So that – some of that is what you are seeing – equate that to timing is what you are seeing on the quarter.
And as I mentioned we’ve been pulling forward 787 inventory and particularly around 787-9 to ensure that that program enters into the production system in a very smooth manner of which it is doing.
We also got some timing C-17 orders that we’ve talked about.
So those again are related to timing throughout the balance of the year.
So we still expect to see very strong cash flow through the balance of the year and really coming from the elements we talked about continuing to execute on the deliveries on the productivity as well as the 787 unit cost.
Now when you look forward into 2015 we expect to see continued growth in cash flow again through the execution on the production rate additional productivity international orders and that will be somewhat offset by our cash taxes and 777X R&amp;D starting to kind of come into play [but that could] (ph) you’ll see growth.
And then from there forward as we talked about you’ll continue to see operating cash flow growth throughout the balance and again that’s all executing on our production rates and continuing to drive productivity.
I am not sure if I covered all your questions.
Well if you look at the – you are talking about moving inventory forward related to the 787-9 and I am trying to understand if you – if it’s possible to put that aside for a moment and think about how the 787-8 and 787-9 are each performing in terms of costs are those – is the 787-8 cash positive yet if were to look at it on a standalone basis? Can you give us a sense of where that is today relative to I would call more one-time items related to inventory timing? Yes yes no – as I said before we are not cash positive yet.
We expect to be cash positive in the 2015 timeframe and that will be a blend obviously of 787-8 and 787-9 but if you step back and look at unit cost on 787-8 and 787-9 they continue to progress well as I’ve talked about on prior calls as well as I would say the other key indicators that ultimately make into deferred and cash around flow time and overall cost of quality all of those trending in the right direction on the program.
So obviously we expect that to continue continue to expect to come down the learning curve on the 787 as well as step down into [prior] (ph) pricing and continuing to work the productivity initiatives all of that ultimately contributing to cash flow over the long term of the program.
Okay okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just staying on the deferred so wondering if you could – if you have a new estimate of where it might take or if we are sticking with [about 25 even though] (ph) we are already a little bit over? And then just honing into the 787-9 I think the pull forward you’ve talked about the inventory is a little more than maybe you expected a year ago could you maybe give a little more concrete – give us a little more on exactly what’s going on there is this payments to suppliers that are happening in advance? I guess quantify it a little bit and help us get a sense as to when maybe flips the other way?  Yes maybe just to kind of help when you look at just over $900 million of growth in deferred in the quarter there’s about a couple of hundred million dollars in there that’s related to 787-9 pull forward.
So essentially what they are doing is as these products become more mature in the production system and the suppliers are performing we are pulling those components and migrating those into the production system to allow a smooth transition as we are operating it at 10 a month and Ray and the team have a done a fantastic job in doing that and you are seeing that in the results we are making our – obviously our deliveries.
And so that kind of methodology they are utilizing in the production system is a risk reduction certainly impacts deferred on the near term but as far as the long-term profitability and risk reduction on the program absolutely the right thing to do.
And as I’ve said to you in the past the program team out there is focused on unit by unit improvement on all aspects whether it is quality unit cost or flow time and ultimately cash and that’s certainly what they are managing but there’s some near term as I said risk mitigating activities that we’ve taken into account here that do impact near term on deferred but are absolutely the right thing to do for this program and that’s what you’ve seen in the quarter and you are going to continue to see some of that as we start to pull forward 787-10 products and get those into the production system derisk the overall production system and get ready for 12 a month.
On the overall deferred there’s really no change I said it would be approximately $25 billion we are at $25.2 billion but again keep in mind last two or three quarters we pulled forward 787-9 and that wasn’t in the original plan there’s no question about that but again absolutely the right thing to do.
So we are continuing to focus on it but like I said Joe it’s all about making rate and making unit cost improvements unit over unit and that’s what the team continues to focus on.
If I may this is violating the one part one question but just to keep on the point – Yes.
I understand the 787-9 pull forward is a couple of hundred and I think maybe it was $300 million or so $300 million or $400 million last quarter.
Okay.
I understand that but it doesn’t seem like sequentially the other part of deferred really came down.
It seems like that was maybe $700 million and change last quarter $700 million and change this quarter so is there any more color on the 787-8? Yes no – 787-8 continues to make progress.
So we are continuing to make progress there and as we have.
So there’s really I would say they are continuing on the trajectory of reducing unit cost as we’ve been on.
Okay thank you.
Okay.
Yes thanks so much.
Hi Cai.
Not to beat a dead horse but if we take out the pull forwards which is not execution it doesn’t look like the 787 deferreds are coming down that much.
Hence it is pretty – I am confused as to why you got a $1 billion positive swing in unit cost or about $500 million profit which were the programs that were profitable or more profitable in the third quarter versus in the second quarter and how does that all [square] (ph) with the trend in 787 deferreds? Thanks Yes I mean on overall unit we saw improvement on the 777 quarter over quarter and about flat on the 777.
Now I’d give you some perspective on the 777 we also had a block extension 200 units that included the investment [to go up to 52] (ph) but also most of that those 200 units were MAX airplanes.
So I think it really gives you a sense of the value this airplane is bringing to the marketplace and at the same time the focus on productivity that you are seeing on not just that program obviously on the other program.
So good performance I would say on the core programs and continuing to make progress on the 787 but when you look at unit versus program Cai you also go to take into the account as I’ve talked before mix.
So you’ve got more early build on the Charleston and more 787-9s in there in Q3 and even with that you’ve seen improvement when you compare unit to program.
So continuing to make progress still got a long way to go but I think they got good plans in place they are monitoring them we’ve got the enterprise engaged on how to capture more productivity and then going forward obviously partnering for success and supplier step-down as we introduce new blocks into the production system.
So all of that adding to the improvement in unit costs going forward.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick clarification on the 777 your comment about near versus program did the 777 program margin change in the quarter? And then as a follow-on the period expenses and fleet support that called up both in the release and in your prepared remarks.
Yes.
Greg can you help us understand maybe how impactful that is to the full year margin and then maybe help us understand the cadence of those expenses quarter over quarter have those been growing sequentially each quarter or were they high one quarter versus the others any help there will be much appreciated? Sure.
Our 777 margin did improve slightly in the quarter and again a lot other things I talked about on the 787 are obviously embedded into the 777.
So we are continuing to try to reduce the unit cost overall on that program.
So you are seeing some of the results of that.
On the period expense I would say the moving pieces within there are fleet support and as you know we are introducing more new 787s to customers this year than we have in the prior years and we want to ensure that that is a very smooth transition.
So we are making investments in fleet support to ensure that they do have – able to introduce those airplanes very smoothly into their operating system.
And then R&amp;D so you are starting to see in the back half here you’ll see 787-10 really starting to ramp up and you all see early introduction of the 777X R&amp;D.
So those are primarily the moving pieces.
You also got a little bit of mix in the fourth quarter BCA margin where we will have a couple of more 747s that’ll be dilutive on the margin basis.
But again we are going to continue to manage that as we have.
And if we see an opportunity to improve that margin in the fourth quarter we’ll certainly capture those gains.
All right thanks.
Great.
Thank you for taking my question.
Good morning.
Greg I wanted to ask a bit about the buyback activity year to date and what the right way to interpret it? In the prepared remarks I heard you sort of reaffirm that you’ll finish the rest of the authorization over the next one to two years.
Yes.
I am curious when we think about the buyback year to date and the fact that it’s been at an elevated rate is that a disagreement with the market on the price of the stock is that the expectation of continued strong execution going forward? What is driving the decision to buy back at an elevated rate? I’ll [say the latter] (ph) that’s the I mean when you step back just think about and I’ve talked about this a lot because there is a lot of big moving pieces in here as I’ve talked before on advances or milestone you step back and you think about last year and this year combined over $16 billion of cash generation coming from the core operation and you look at that and then you look at the production rates you look at the record backlog and the fact is I think we’ve got maybe three or four production rate increases going forward that we need to execute we’ve already been through almost $17 billion to date.
And that’s what’s giving us the confidence.
The risk profile obviously has changed dramatically and the continued focus on execution and repurchasing $5 billion of stock this year really again looking forward looking at the strength of the backlog looking at our ability to execute on that backlog and capture additional productivity and that’s what’s really driven us to buy back the shares at the pace we have been buying back.
And we put the authorization in place obviously to utilize it and we are going to continue to do that as we fit but it gets back to just the fundamentals and I think the competitive differentiator in the marketplace in the marketplace where you are looking at 5500 airplanes in backlog and we know where they are we are very happy with the quality of that backlog [gets to] (ph) execute on that and executing on that flawlessly and I think the team has done a great job and I think we are going to continue to do a great job going forward.
And is there a potential to revisit or even increase the authorization going forward? Yes we certainly will do that as we [fit] (ph) Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow up on the question about some of those period expenses which is that if you look at the BCA [tied-ins] (ph) that would imply something like a mid-8% margin than the fourth quarter and I would think a lot of those things like R&amp;D the [mix to 787-8 787-7] (ph) etcetera really don’t change going into next year so is that how we should be thinking about BCA into next year as well? Yes.
I think as you think about next year obviously we’ll see strong growth coming out of BCA going into next year again executing on the production rates and we’re also expecting a little bit higher services revenue going into next year.
Now on the margin front we’re going to have a little bit more R&amp;D than we had this year and again that’s a ramp-down obviously of the 787-9 ramp-up of the 777X and the 787-10 and then again improvements on 787 margin expected into next year and then we’re going to continue to make investments in 777X automation as we’ve talked about I think in the past.
So those are kinds of moving pieces if you think about going into next year and then of course we’re continuing to focus on the productivity initiatives I discussed.
That’s generally I think the best way to look at it for next year and again on the top line we know we need to do and on the bottom line we’re going to continue doing what we’ve – what we have been doing this year and last year on productivity.
Okay.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Our next question is from Rob Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just on something you said a couple of questions ago about the importance of execution and also volumes rate increases and we’re all sitting here waiting for free cash flow per share to get into the double digits and into the mid-teens perhaps what’s the timeframe when do you have the confluence of this rising execution and at the same time the volumes that will drive – that long awaited steeper slope in the cash flow is this 2017 when you hit the next rate on the narrow body because the 787 component of it seems to be moving a little bit to the right here when you said earlier sometime in the 2015 time frame 787-8 goes breakeven – Yes.
So when should we be thinking about a change in the slope on the free cash flow curve? Well as I say you are going to– we’re going to see growth next year and expect to see growth thereafter and it’s really again executing on the production rates.
Now once you get to a peak rate I would say that’s where you really maximize the cash flow of just the basis of the elements of driving the cash flow between progress payments and delivery payments.
So once we get to peak rate is really where you should see the real potential or peak potential from the company and then again the partnering for success and the other initiatives more mature out in that time frame.
But again the top line is pretty solid when you look we know the rates we know we need to do execute on far fewer than what we’ve had to but – and we’re making investments today.
We’re making investments in that growth whether it’s 787-10 or whether that’s MAX or 777X.
So obviously those investments will peak in as they get I’ll take kind of the [key minus] (ph) entry into service and so there’ll be some offset there.
But again we continue to see a strong cash flow profile going forward driven on those elements of the business.
Right.
But Greg how do we factor in the fact that your peak rates keep moving to the right and not because they are delayed they just keep getting higher? Well I wouldn’t say that rates have moved to the right they moved up.
That’s what I mean getting higher.
So you have new peaks further out at higher levels? Right.
And continued investment to get there.
So it’s a little – when you’re talking about maturing at a peak rate are we talking about the 10 per month on the 787 the 12 the 14 the 42 the 47 or the 52 on the narrow body how do we think about what’s a peak rate what’s a mature rate? I think all of those are going to come into play and as you know they’re all pretty much staggered throughout that next five-year period but when you talk about investments as an example we’ve already made the investments [these are] (ph) accounted for the investments that go into 52 a month on the 737.
So again I think this is a demonstration of the strength of the market and the strength of the portfolio and again I wouldn’t call it moving investments or moving rate to the right it’s more moving rates up.
Yes.
I wasn’t trying to suggest they are delayed I meant going higher.
Just a quick one for Jim.
Jim we’ve seen a lot of movement in the price of oil here and I know that airlines’ fleet plan on a long-term basis but at what price of Brent crude might we see some demand destruction? Well the airlines – first of all airlines tend to buy on the sort of the distribution around a mean.
So and above to all that distribution is pretty wide.
So their behavior tends to be driven by that more than a point (indiscernible).
Having said that our analysis shows the price of oil could still fall a long way before our planes are anything other than compelling economically.
I mean this generation of new planes that we’re introducing anywhere from 16% to 24% more efficient than the planes they are replacing this replacement generation is it has more compelling numbers associated with than any generation I’ve seen since the 707.
So our analysis – we (indiscernible) on both interest rates and price of oil and you got to go a long way from where we are now before you begin to see even incremental impact.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you both.
Okay.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just a clarification question for you and then one for Jim as well.
On the clarification can you just talk about or clarify the cadence of cash and deferred on the 787 is it the case that the 787-8 787-9 move into a profitable state as the 787-10 is ramping up and therefore things kind of stabilize is that the right way to think about things on the 787? I think it’s a combination or certainly getting to 12 a month getting the 787-9 rate up are really the stabilizing factors obviously and continue to come down the learning curve internally and then the step down pricing on the supply chain are really the big drivers in there.
Yes.
But then offsetting that will be some deferred build on the 787-10 is that right? Correct.
Yes.
Like I said you know if there’s opportunities to pull some of this forward and I’ll say verified in the production system we’re certainly going to do that as we have with the 787-9 and as you’ve seen it has been very successful.
But that’s kind of a quarter-by-quarter month-by-month decision that we’ll make as we get closer to those products moving into the production system but 12 a month is a big milestone on deferred production.
Right.
And Jim the question for you is just the phrase productivity gains and partnering for success (indiscernible) throughout this call give us an update on where we are with partnering for success and what you at this point knowing what you know about the success of that program to date and the productivity gains that you’re seeing – what kind of margin expansion opportunity do we have here for the commercial business in particular? Well you’re seeing the beginnings of the impact now in the margins you’re seeing in our businesses.
So pretty robust margins we have plans to keep them in that neighborhood at least and I would say we’re still in the first 25% of this initiative.
We’ve probably matured deals with somewhat over a third of our supply base there is discussions with another third and then there’s another third that we’re jousting with a little bit.
So seeing the beginning of the impact now still a lot more in front of us than behind us and I think it is going to be fundamental not only to our profitability but also the profitability of the people we work with.
I mean we’re taking cost out of our mutual business activities and those that are working with us are getting in many cases more volume from us part of the arrangement.
So this all gives us more flexibility on either taking it in margin or using it in price of the marketplace when we face those situations and if we hadn’t have had this program we wouldn’t be able to respond properly and so we’re going to keep pushing this one.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
And we’ll go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi maybe Greg the advances they were as a use of cash in the quarter – Yes.
And I’m coupling that with I think the best commercial BCA bookings quarter in your history and certainly I would imagine relative in your prepared remarks said that orders are coming in well ahead of your expectations for the full year so can you play out why advances aren’t more of a source to your original benchmark for cash flow and [what’s offsetting it] (ph) Yeah.
No absolutely I mean as you know on initial order there is no lot of cash that comes with that initial order most of the cash associated that’s with progress payment.
So that’s where you’re seeing an offset and it’s purely just timing of progress payments one quarter to another.
So there’s nothing else to read into that other than timing on progress payments.
In other words there is no help that you’re getting from the outside sort of activity for your guidance on cash flow? Yeah.
No I wouldn’t say and you’ll see more strength in the fourth quarter.
So that’s where you’ll definitely see some timing in there.
And then as we talked about you got a little bit of inventory when you look at it on a net basis inventory build up on 737 and 787 that are also offsetting that.
But again I would – I just equate that to purely timing.
And one clarification the C17 is that a cash headwind to this year on [white tails] (ph) or is it all virtually into 2015 that we have to think about? No.
It’s this year.
Okay.
Yeah.
It’s this year.
All right thanks.
You’re welcome.
Our next question is from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning Jim and Greg.
Hi Peter.
Good morning.
Jim you’ve mentioned the last couple of years that the majority deliveries having gone for replacement versus growth I wonder if we can just put a finer point on that about how long do you think that this window continues to exist where we are seeing the majority of deliveries go for replacement before we tread back to kind of the historical growth estimates that have been associated with deliveries? Yes.
I mean if you look back in history history is sort of 75% growth 20% to 25% replacement and starting with really the 787 it’s the replacement has been double that.
Okay.
So a real (indiscernible) has changed.
So about half replacement half growth.
I think you’re going to see it continue for a while as the new technology we’ve developed rolls through our model families.
For example you’re seeing it on the 787 today as it replaces the older medium sized wide-bodies and you’re beginning to see it on the 777 as we spiral the number of those technologies now into the 777 you are beginning to see it on the MAX and so I think that’s going to continue probably for another decade or so with a more robust mix of replacement versus growth which is the good thing about us in the sense that it will keep us disconnected from over all GDP trends.
This is what gives us a multiplier on GDP.
And I think it’s and it all stems from the inventiveness of our people and staying out in front of the marketplace and our competition in that regard.
Yes.
And just if I could just follow up to that one of the things that’s been driver this has been the elevated fuel prices.
So I know to Rob’s question about you would have to go a lot lower but someone analysis kind of indicate that you saw oil at $70 for an extended period you see some destruction is that the only thing number materially below that? Yes.
I mean we would not see much impact at $70 okay.
And it would have to be much difference than $70.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Based on our analysis.
Thank you.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
And that will be from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Noah.
Good morning Maybe since I am last I’ll do one more deferred question I guess I’m wondering now that you’re at $25 billion is it possible to more precisely pin down what the word approximate means in the approximately $25 billion and I know that’s maybe [splitting] (ph) but I think a lot of your stakeholders really care if it is going to really kind of hover around $25 billion while it’s flat before coming down or if it needed to be $26 billion or $27 billion before it comes back down.
And in that answer if you could also address since the inventory pull forward that you’re doing which makes sense was unanticipated and not in the original plan are there any other potential new strategies that could come about that you could tell us about that we could in front of? Yes.
I mean that’s certainly the 787-10.
I mean if we have an opportunity to do that for all the reasons I talked about on the 787-9 we’ll absolutely do it and that’s supporting profitable growth going forward and it’s a risk reduction and it is absolutely the right thing to do and again I think the 787-9 performance demonstrates that.
And so that’s probably the one that comes to mind where we – if we have opportunities we will.
It could impact near term deffered but I’ll say a long-term productivity and profitability for the program will benefit as a result of that and ultimately cash flow.
You know on the deffered a year ago I said approximately $25 billion there is obviously been a lot of moving pieces within that number and the 787-9 performance on a unit cost basis and I think try to give you some color on the progress that’s being made there they are making good progress so expect to make more absolutely.
We would like it happen faster absolutely seems very focused on it and then making rate and the team has done a good job on making rate and then the suppliers step down.
So all of those sentiments within deffered are being managed all around profitability and cash flow.
Quarter to quarter they are going to change.
There is no question about that depending on what’s taking place in the production or where we can pull forward certain elements even if 787-8 inventory if we compose (indiscernible) we pull that in at the same time.
So it’s going to more around Noah but as we enter into more 787-9 and we have the opportunity again to risk mitigate.
We’ll do that as well but we’re managing it obviously with a weighted focus mindset on cash generation and long term profitability and cash generation for the program over the long term.
So yes there is near term decisions that you’re going to see but they are absolutely the right thing to do to drive again solid growth on both top line and bottom line for the program.
Okay.
I guess given we’re over – a little over $25 billion we’re not breakeven yet on 787-8.
We’re pulling forward a little more on 787-9.
We have yet pulled forward on 10 each of those being a couple of hundred million dollars.
It sounds like the approximate could translate to $1 to $2 billion rather than $100 million to $200 million.
Is that a fair assessment or is that too large? Well I think it’s certainly we’re going to continue to do this quarter over quarter I mean I certainly don’t see a profile to get to $2 billion but it’ll depend on the decisions we make on pull forward and if we decide to do that and our continued focus on unit costs so obviously it’s about making rate and coming down on the unit cost and we’re going to continue to focus on that.
But like I said is all about making investments now that have – ensure that we have long-term profitable growth on the program.
We hope next year on a cash flow basis on the program it certainly will be much better than what it was this year and again it’s all those things that we’ve talked about and during 2015 we expect to be cash positive on the program.
So we’re going to continue to execute on that and I would say kind of continue the productivity enhancements that the team has developed on the program that again really benefit not as much today but definitely next year or next month or next quarter and following years to stabilize the production system and maximize the efficiency.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
You are welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now return you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any other questions after the session ends please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we’re ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And first go to Doug Cameron with Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning Jim and Greg.
Good morning Good morning Doug.
On the defense side actually this bridges both parts of the business you previously indicated in regulatory filings that you may make a decision on [a big chunk] (ph) in St.
Louis in the sort of first second quarter of 2013 time frame given the transfer or upon transfer of some commercial work there in Wichita as well I wonder if that sort of decision-making time frame is still valid or in fact bringing the commercial work in fact may change your mind regardless of what happens on the military side? Well the key factors around any significant decision around St.
Louis eventually gets to F-15 and F-18 production.
We are pleased to see in the current budget proposal that F-15s are supported in the FY-15 budget which takes us out through the end of 2017 the international orders on F-15 take us beyond that.
Now that’s not yet etched in stone with our government so could there be a significant decision first part of 2015? Yes.
Does it look if we may be able to navigate through that? Yes.
But I wouldn’t want to say categorically that a decision wouldn’t have to be made at that time.
Obviously longer term Long Range Strike is a program that we think we are well positioned to win which would certainly St.
Louis over the longer term perturbation we would have face into shorter term.
Our next question from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg News.
Please go ahead.
Hi a quick question on 747-8 just wondering if there are any plans to reconsider the 1.5 per month rate this year given what we’re seeing with sales and the dwindling backlog?  Well we were pleased to see that the cargo market growth has accelerated and in this last quarter is up.
Our best analysis as we sit here today says that the marketplace will support the rates that we have in place.
The macro picture is improving we’ll just to have to look at it every quarter and make a decision for the Boeing Company.
But for right now we see – we think we are in the right spot.
And next go to Dominic Gates with the Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Dominic.
I wanted to ask about the 737 market share obviously the MAX is doing extremely well but you started a year behind the Neo the expectation was that basically sales of the Neo would tapper off and sales of the MAX would catch up but looking at market share now the Neo is showing no signs of wining just to say that huge order from Indigo and it looks like 737s is that like 40% market share.
We’ve also got news that Airbus maybe looking at a longer range version of A321 which may make it even more attractive.
So you’ve always insisted you end up with 50-50 or approximately that can you elaborate on where that’s going and how you see that happening? Dominic you are breaking up a little bit.
I think I got the question.
Our view of where it will end up based on our discussions with customers based on our pipeline hasn’t changed.
I mean you are right we started a year-and-a-half behind the other guys.
If you look at the trajectory of where we are at a similar point in time where they were we are right we are in a similar place.
So the market share will be what market share will be but our view hasn’t changed on that at all.
Our next question is from Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jim it seems as though the partnering for success percentages that you stated a little earlier on the call haven’t really changed much in the last few quarters.
We keep hearing it’s roughly a third are engaged a third are sort of in the converting stage and a third [you have] (ph) yet to engage.
Can you explain why that – that’s not – we are not yet seeing any real shift in getting more suppliers into the tent?  Well I didn’t mean to leave the impression that we are not making progress because we are.
I think if you take a granular look a number of partners have – are working with us on our partnering for success basis.
So I didn’t want to leave the impression we are not making progress we are.
And I think it would be fair to say that over the last three to four months that another 10% of our partners have started working with us a concrete basis.
Maybe that’s a better way to answer that question.
Operator we have one last question in the queue and we will take that now.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
[Also considering] (ph) the 11.2% margin in BCA could you provide historical contact on that is that a record or a near record and it was higher in the past what factors made it happen then relative to now? Well I mean it certainly is we had a strong quarter it really went across all the production programs.
I mean I haven’t gone back and looked at whether it was a record or not but it certainly goes to the focus that team has on driving the productivity and even to Jim’s question prior on partnering for success and we are starting to see the benefit of that.
So just solid execution across the board.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to The Boeing Company’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I am turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in today’s press release and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning everyone.
Let me begin today with a brief review of some recent strategic achievements followed by comments on our strong 2014 operating performance then an overview of the business environment.
After that Greg will walk you through our financial results and outlook in greater detail.
Now let’s move to slide two please.
Boeing is entering 2015 stronger healthier and better positioned in its markets than any time in recent memory.
Our strategic accomplishments over the past 24 months alone provide a compelling picture of the progress we have made to enable sustain growth and improving profitability as we near the start of our second century in business.
During that timeframe we captured more than 2 700 net new Commercial Airplane orders grew our market share and deliveries with six successful production rate increases including reaching our target 10 per month on the 787 with more than three per month following steadily from our capacity expansion in South Carolina.
We completed a comprehensive refresh of our Commercial Airplane product line with the highly successful launches of the twin-aisle 787-10 and the 777X on a combined 400 orders and commitments and the launch of the single-aisle 737 MAX 200 with a 100 airplane order from Lion Air.
Starting with the hard-fought technology gains of 787 we have built a substantial technological lead in commercial aviation particularly in the high-value twin-aisle market.
And by listening to our customers and applying our proven technologies and lessons learned in summary we have derisk a decade of new product development while expanding our edge in the performance and efficiency of our airplanes.
Turning to Boeing defense space and security despite a top domestic budget environment BDS continued to strengthen its relative market position and competitiveness.
We have accomplished this by driving significant new efficiencies in response to the environment in order to meet government customer needs and fund investments in technology and innovation including in space programs where we have restored our technological lead and market position in satellites autonomous spacecraft missile defense and human space flight.
To the benefit of both businesses we also secured unprecedented production continuity and improved economics with long-term labor agreements at our major production sites in Puget Sound St.
Louis and Philadelphia and we retired significant and long-standing legal and financial risks from billions in potential liability on matters such as the A-12 program to the short-term threat to our balance sheet from Defined Benefit Pensions.
As you know by the end of next year approximately 90% of our workforce will participate in Defined Contribution Plan which provide attractive and competitive benefits to employees without the risks to our balance sheet.
Going forward we remain ever focused on driving productivity and executing on our growth initiatives which are fundamental to our success.
To meet customer demand for our market leading Commercial Airplanes we have five more rate increases ahead of us over the remainder of the decade.
These higher production volumes will provide additional opportunities for driving step function gains in productivity for us and our suppliers through lean plus capturing the value of quality and our partnering for success efforts.
We are equally committed to breaking the cost curve on our new development programs and delivering them on time with performance as advertised.
To that end we have focused our engineering teams on designs that are more producible common systems and parts across airplane families and our disciplined gated development process.
We have also increased our investment in manufacturing and production innovations including automation to increase quality and safety in the workplace and reduce load times.
Overall for 2015 and throughout the remainder of the decade these recent achievements in the marketplace in our operations and in our financial performance set the stage for expected significant cash generation the flexibility to invest for growth in support of our customers and the increasing return of cash to shareholders.
With that as perspective let’s discuss our 2014 results on slide three please.
Strong fourth quarter results driven by higher commercial deliveries and solid operating performance capped an outstanding year.
We continue to develop -- to deliver on our strategies to convert our backlog into profitable growth and to drive productivity and affordability throughout the company.
For the full year we reported record revenue and core earnings per share solid operating margins and strong cash flow much of which was returned to shareholders.
Boeing Commercial Airplanes reported record revenue of $60 billion for the year on higher production rates and an industry record 723 delivers which expanded our global market share leadership in deliveries for the third consecutive year.
2014 was also an exceptional year for new bookings as we captured commercial gross orders of 1 550 airplanes and record net orders of 1 432 airplanes which increased our backlog to nearly 5 800 airplanes.
When combined with strong orders from our Defense business total company backlog grew to a record $502 billion.
Other Commercial Airplanes key milestones in 2014 included successfully reaching the 42 per month production rate on the 737 and announcing plans to increase the 52 in 2018.
Model certification and delivery of the first 10 787-9 completing preliminary design review on the 787-10 and breaking ground on the new 777X composite centers in Puget Sound and St.
Louis.
Boeing defense space and security also had a very strong year with solid revenue healthy margins and significant new business wins and program milestones.
Key contract awards captured during the fourth quarter included an order for two 702 high-power satellites multiple long-term international service contracts including a 25-year order from the Australian Government to train rotary wing aircrews valued at approximately $500 million and finalization of the NASA Commercial Crew Award announced in the third quarter.
Noteworthy program milestones in the quarter included the first flight of the 767-2C test aircraft for the KC-46 tanker program the selection of the V-22 by Japan to fulfill their tilt-rotor aircraft requirements and U.S.
Government funding for EA-18G Growler production.
Finally our strong operational performance trend significant cash flow and confidence in the future all supported by our December announcement of the new share repurchase authorization totaling $12 billion and a 25% increase in the quarterly dividend.
With that let's turn to the business environment on slide 4.
Our view of the business environment remains positive given favorable global air traffic trends improving airline profitability and the continuing need for efficient and value-creating products we provide.
Strong growth in the commercial airplane market continues to drive demand that supports our planned production rate increases over the remainder of the decade.
Net new orders for 2014 that I mentioned earlier were essentially twice our 2014 output and our record backlog of 5 800 airplanes represents approximately eight years of production at current rates.
Replacement demand remains an important market driver with airlines continuing to introduce newer more efficient airplanes with superior economics and a rapid return on investment in place of older less efficient models and service.
Notwithstanding a fuel price environment today that is well below the 15-year average the value proposition for our airplanes remains a compelling one.
Historically we have seen aircraft orders more correlated to airline profits.
And as many of you may recall we closed the business case for and launched the 787 when oil was at $40 a barrel.
Furthermore based on discussions with our customers more oil prices have not substantially changed their views on fleet planning for their commitment to existing delivery schedules.
Our new technologically advanced airplanes not only have far better fuel efficiency and lower maintenance costs but also often deliver higher passenger and cargo revenue increased residual values a better overall passenger experience and greater range allowing for new city pairs and more optimal routes.
All of these elements provide significant value to our customers over the life of the aircraft.
Overall we see low fuel prices and positive traffic trends as beneficial to our industry and growth prospects.
Our long-term outlook also remain strong as we expect the combination of growth and replacement to drive the need for nearly 37 000 aircrafts over the next 20 years.
In the twin-aisle segment we continued to see healthy demand for both the 777 and the 777X which are outselling the competition by a wide margin giving us confidence in our ability to efficiently transition production between the two airplanes.
In 2014 we captured 63 new orders for current 777 models giving us 217 firm orders in backlog.
We expect demand for the 777 to remain healthy through the end of this decade with an anticipated average order capture of around 40 to 60 airplanes per year to support the transition to the 777X.
With the new airplanes -- with the new airplanes scheduled to enter final assembly in the 2018 timeframe this transition will leverage new manufacturing processes and technologies being proven on the current 777 to optimize the 777X production system.
On the 787 program which delivered a twin-aisle industry record 114 airplanes in 2014 we remain focused on continued production efficiencies and support our future planned rate increases to match the strong market demand for the airplane.
Since the first customer flight 787 fleet has now flown -- has now safely flown approximately 30 million passengers more than 400 million miles while saving 1 billion pounds of fuel providing game-changing efficiencies and capabilities to 29 customers worldwide.
In the single-aisle segment demand for our new fuel-efficient 737 MAX also remains high with cumulative orders totaling more than 2 660 airplanes from 57 customers.
The Development of the MAX remains on track for the first delivery in 2017.
Turning to defense space and security we continued to see solid support among U.S.
customers and Congress for our major programs.
In addition to the Growler funding I mentioned earlier the FY ‘15 budget signed into law in December fully funds other core Boeing production programs such as the Apache helicopter and the P-8A Poseidon.
Key development programs like tanker and Long-Range Strike also were fully funded and additional funds were added for the Space Launch System.
We continue to see strong international demand for our offerings as well particularly in the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region.
In 2014 international customers for our defense space and security represented 28% of revenue and 36% of our current backlog.
While notable alone for its size the strength of our international defense backlog also comes from its diversity across our product and services portfolio and the geographic mix of its customer base.
Our investments in technology and innovation for organic growth continue in areas such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance and the critical few large-scale future programs that are priorities for our customers like Long-Range Strike UCLASS and the T-X Trainer.
The relative strength of our defense space and security business stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven and affordable supported by our ongoing market-based affordability initiative which is focused on reducing operating costs by another $2 billion to ensure competitiveness through the ongoing downturn in domestic defense spending.
In summary our business strategies are aligned to the realities and opportunities of our markets and our teams are executing them well to deliver topline and bottom-line performance and capture new business to sustain our growth and profitability for the decades to come.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg? Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let's turn to slide 5 to discuss our full year results.
Revenue for the year was a record $91 billion reflecting 5% growth from last year driven by higher deliveries in our Commercial Airplane business.
Core earnings per share totaled $8.60 for the year representing a 22% increase.
The increase in core EPS was driven by strong operational performance across the company.
Adjusting for the tax items in the A-12 litigation settlement 2013 core earnings per share increased 14%.
Operating cash flow for the year was also very strong at $8.9 billion.
The robust cash generation was driven by higher deliveries solid core operating performance favorable timing of receipts and expenditures and capturing the early benefits of our disciplined working capital initiatives.
Let’s now move to our quarterly results on slide 6.
Fourth quarter revenue increased 3% to $24.5 billion driven by strong Commercial Airplane deliveries.
Core operating margins increased to 9.6% reflecting solid productivity gains in both businesses.
Fourth quarter core earnings per share increased 23% to $2.31 on higher volume and continued strong operating performance.
Fourth quarter 2013 included again $0.34 for the A-12 litigation settlement.
Let’s now discuss Commercial Airplanes on slide 7.
For the fourth quarter our Commercial Airplane business increased revenue 15% to $16.8 billion on a record 195 airplane deliveries and solid operating margins of 9.3%.
The margin benefit from the higher volume mature program was offset by the impact of higher 787 deliveries and the anticipated increase in period costs primarily for investments to support future growth and productivity.
Commercial Airplanes revenue for the year was a record $16 billion an increase of 13% as we successfully executed on our planned production rate increases resulting again a record deliveries totaling 723 aircrafts.
Commercial Airplanes captured $27 billion of net orders during the quarter and backlog grew to a new record of $440 billion and nearly 5800 aircraft.
Specifically on the 787 we exceeded our delivery guidance for the full year as the team worked hard to deliver 114 787s and in total we've now delivered 228 787s to 29 customers 14 of which were new customers in 2014.
We continue to see progress in key operational performance indicators as we further implement production efficiencies and stabilized the overall 787 production system.
On the 787-8 we've seen a decline in unit cost of approximately 30% over the last 175 deliveries and on 787-9 we’ve seen declines of 20% since the first delivery.
Based on this progress our production schedule and planned productivity investments we continue to expect the 787 to be cash positive during 2015 and we still anticipate deferred production to decline shortly after we’ve achieved the 12 per month production rate in 2016.
No change to these fundamental milestones.
In the fourth quarter the 787 deferred production increased $960 million to $26.1 billion and we now anticipate 787 deferred production to grow at moderate levels for the next several quarters as productivity improvements on both models offset timing of supplier negotiations further investments to optimize the production system and our decision to maintain higher employment levels to ensure the continued smooth introduction of the 787-9 and further incorporate additional productivity and reliability investments.
These focused decisions and efforts are expected to continue to drive long-term efficiencies margin improvement and cash generation on the 787 program.
Overall our focus and priorities remain unchanged for the 787 program.
Solid day-to-day execution risk reduction and improving long-term productivity and cash flow going forward while continuing to have smooth ramp up on the 787-9 production prepare for the 12 per month rate introducing the -10 while again driving efficiencies across all aspects of the program.
Let’s turn now to Defense Space and Security results on slide eight.
Fourth quarter revenue for our defense business was $7.6 billion and operating margin increased to 12.1% due to strong business across the portfolio.
Revenue for Boeing Military Aircraft declined to $3 billion in the fourth quarter resulting from lower planned C-17 and F-15 deliveries.
Operating margins increased to 12.3% in the quarter driven by solid operating performance.
Network and Space Systems revenue declined to $2.2 billion in the fourth quarter on lower government satellite volume.
Operating margin at N&amp;SS was 8.8% in the quarter.
Global Services &amp; Support reported 2% increase in the fourth quarter revenue to $2.4 billion on higher MM&amp;U volume and generate strong operating margin of 14.9% driven by higher operating performance.
Defense Space and Security reported a solid backlog of $62 billion with 36% of our current backlog now representing some customers outside the United States.
Let’s now turn to slide nine.
Operating cash flow for the fourth quarter was $5 billion.
The strength of our cash flow was driven by higher volume strong operating performance favorable timing of receipts and expenditures and again early benefits of our disciplined working capital initiatives.
With regard to capital deployment we paid $519 million in dividend to shareholders and repurchased 7.8 million shares for $1 billion in the fourth quarter bringing our total 2014 repurchase activity to 47 million shares for $6 billion.
And as Jim mentioned earlier we announced in December that our Board of Directors increased the share repurchase optimization to $12 billion and increased the dividend 25% up 88% in the last two years.
We expect to complete the repurchase authorization over approximately the next two to three years.
Our capital deployment to date continues to demonstrate the strength of our portfolio and backlog and our commitment and confidence in the business performing well going forward.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investment to support future growth remains priority for us.
Let’s now move to cash and debt balances on slide 10.
We ended the quarter with $13.1 billion of cash and marketable securities and our cash position continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Again our financial strength allows us to continue to invest in key growth areas of the business returning cash to shareholders and execute our cash deployment strategies going forward.
Turning now to slide 11 we’ll discuss our outlook for 2015.
Our guidance for 2015 reflects solid core operating performance higher deliveries at Commercial Airplanes business while reflecting the near-term investments needed to support our efforts to drive long-term growth and productivity.
Core earnings per share guidance for 2015 is set to be between $8.20 and $8.40 per share and excluding the 2014 tax settlements totaling $0.71 per share.
2015 earnings per share is expected to grow between 4% and 6%.
Revenue for 2015 is forecast to increase to be between $94.5 billion and $96.5 billion representing growth of between 4% and 6%.
Our 2015 Commercial Airplane revenue guidance is between $64.5 billion and $65.5 billion reflecting 8% to 9% growth as we execute on our record backlog.
The 2015 commercial delivery forecast is now between 750 and 755 airplanes and 787 deliveries for 2015 are expected to be essentially in line with the 10 per rate -- 10 per month production rate plus a few early build deliveries.
Commercial Airplanes operating margin guidance is set to be between 9.5% and 10% on improved operating performance offset by greater dilution impact of higher planned research and development spending higher 787 deliveries and further investments to support future growth.
Defense Space and Security revenue guidance for 2015 is between $29.5 billion and $30.5 billion reflecting the continued challenging defense environment particularly offset -- partially offset excuse me -- by the ongoing international growth.
Operating margin guidance of the defense business is now between 9.75% and 10% reflecting continued productivity efforts offset by the impact of lower volume and delivery mix.
Supporting our long-term growth plans we expect research and development spending for 2015 to be approximately $3.5 billion with about 70% related to 787 particularly driven by the planned increase in 777X and 787-10 development while at BDS we continue to invest in key strategic growth opportunities going forward.
We expect operating cash flow for 2015 to be greater than $9 billion reflecting higher deliveries strong operating performance continued 787 productivity and capturing the final C-17 orders.
This is somewhat offset by higher cash tax payments and favorable timing of receipts and expenditures benefited 2014 results.
As we look forward we expect further growth in operating cash flow in 2016 as we continue to execute on our backlog capture additional productivity gains and improve 787 cash performance.
Capital spend guidance for 2015 is approximately $2.8 billion driven by the new 777X facilities and equipment Charleston expansion to support the 787 rate increase and other investments to support continued growth and productivity.
Our required pension contributions in 2015 will be minimal as a result of legislative pension changes.
We are now foregoing discretionary pension funding in 2015.
As we look into the next quarter we expect first quarter revenue core EPS and cash flow could be the lowest during the year based on timing of deliveries phasing the expenditures and advances.
First quarter EPS is estimated to be approximately 20% of our full earnings.
So in summary Boeing’s 2014 financial performance and the 2015 financial guidance reflects the strong demand for our products and services the strength of our backlog and our continued focus on driving productivity throughout the entire enterprise.
With that I will now turn it back over to Jim for some final thoughts.
Thank you Greg.
2014 was another year of strong operating performance and significant cash generation as we successfully executed on our record backlog that allowed us to return cash to our shareholders while still prudently investing to sustain our growth and competitive advantage.
Built upon an underlying foundation 2014 was a very strong year for Boeing as we continue to deliver on the significant and sustained growth and increasing profitability and cash flow that our strategies were designed to produce.
Thanks to the tremendous efforts of our employees our partners and customers around the world.
We achieved critical strategic milestones in both businesses.
Continued focus and execution on production and development programs that are important to our customers and maintain our relentless focus on productivity to enable continued investment in our future all of which sets the stage for further growth and sustained business performance for customers and shareholders in the years ahead.
Now we would be delighted to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning Carter.
Just some quick clarifications about your comments on deferred production Greg and a question.
Did that change result and any negative margin impact on the program and how far rightward did it shift the cash breakeven point you had talked about in the past? And then just from a high level does it change -- does the differencing in the profile a deferred production here represent a change in how you’re managing the program or thinking about the long-term risk profile or return profile on the program? Is it reactive in anyway? Just from a high level is there something more we should read into that and how you’re approaching risk and return now? Yes -- no I think that there you shouldn’t look at any differently Carter.
I think when you step back and you look at how this program has performed it’s performed very well 114 deliveries last year and obviously we’ve reached the record production rate higher than any wide-body in aviation history and we are planning to go up.
The fundamental milestones that you talked about with regard to cash positive we still expect that in '15 and we still expect deferred to decline shortly after we hit that 12 a month that we are planning for in '16.
So those things have not changed.
We obviously -- as I discussed we see next two to three quarters similar growth than what we’ve seen and then later in '15 the decline at a healthier rate.
But all of that is anticipated in the guidance we gave in cash flow.
And at the end of the day that’s what matters.
You’ve seen our results in '14 you see our guidance for '15 our cash all that is again taking into consideration.
And the program margin? Program margin was just down slightly in the quarter but not significant.
Okay.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
And next we will take Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I am interested you’ve got -- I mean you’ve had very strong cash in Q4 so we are looking at more than $9 billion in operating cash in '15.
And then I was surprised to see deferred continuing to rise.
Could you walk through really two things here the puts and takes of getting of your cash -- operating cash flow in '14 to '15? And then when you look at how much you’ve got in the balance sheet you’ve got now cash in STI of over $13 billion and you’re going to generate more than $6 billion in free cash flow.
How do you expect to deploy that? You should have declining risk here.
This is a lot of cash.
And it seems like it’s a lot more than you would really need to manage the company on the balance sheet today.
Well as you know Doug one of the strategies we had in place was to derisk the decade and we’ve certainly done.
The risk profile going forward is a very different than it was in the past.
And so continuing to execute on delivering on the backlog focusing on the core operating performance again improving the 787 cash profile and of course capturing those final C-17 that’s the biggest driver from '14 to '15.
We are going to have higher cash taxes because we are improving unit costs on 787.
And we have again slightly higher R&amp;D all planned out 777X and 10X.
So those are kind of the moving pieces from '14 to '15.
With regards to deployment you’ve seen what we did last year.
You see the authorization we have in place it’s in place to utilize it and we plan to do that.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning Howard.
Good morning.
Nice numbers.
Thank you.
One question related to 787 and sort of orders related.
As I look at it this year is more of a year to fill in some holes and demonstrate that the products you have have extended legs.
Could you address some of the opportunities with some specificity on 777? And then also on what you’re finding from customer feedback on the 787? And what kind of movement there is to Dash 9s? Let me take a swing at that one Howard.
On the 777 the good issue there obviously is the bridge transition to the bridge because I think the market is focused on the launch of the 777X a very robust launch.
As to the bridge there is 63 orders this year that Ray and his team secured bodes well for the 40 to 60 we need over the next few years to get to the bridge.
So I am feeling increasingly comfortable there.
Long-term demand for the airplane there is no competition for the airplane.
So I feel very good about the long-term demand for the airplane.
I think on the 787 I think what you’re going to see is a mix from Dash 8s to Dash 9s to Dash 10s and that we saw moving around this skyline as that’s accommodated.
That’s all good news for The Boeing Company in the sense that we’re usually selling more capability for higher price and that dynamic I don’t see changing.
I think we are still -- we are little bit hampered by the number of orders we have I mean that’s without the 20 21ish.
I would anticipate toward the end of this year and in the next year a rekindling of orders on the 87 as we get a little closer to the end of the decade.
People begin to pick up options.
The moving around of the Skyline was subsided a little bit.
And the airplanes performance quite frankly I cited it in my remarks the airplanes performance to be candid is better I think by and large than we sold it at.
And we are very pleased with the operating costs the fuel savings obviously and the thing that is often left unnoticed here is that this grows the market.
This airplane enables wide-body or any kind of body quite frankly city pairs that have never been enabled before.
And so I’m sort of making up the number but it's 20% of the demand for this thing is opening up capacity between city pairs that was not available before because of the performance of the airplane.
So it’s a little bit longer answer than you wanted but that’s my dump on the subject.
Thank you much.
Thanks.
And we’ll go to Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
Good morning.
Greg I had a couple for you on just deferred.
So wondering if you could as you’ve done the last couple quarters quantify if there is any pull-forward from building Dash 9 inventory if you could give us a sense sequentially if Dash 8 and Dash 9 unit costs declined and if this was just mix related that you didn't see any deferred reduction sequentially? Yeah there was no pull-forward in the quarter Joe.
There was more Dash 9.
It was about 30% more Dash 9 mix in third quarter versus fourth quarter.
So that obviously had an impact.
And then we had more reliability enhancements in the fourth quarter than we did in the third.
And again that’s something that we are really trying to be proactive and get those embedded into the production system so they are there when we deliver the airplane.
But those are really the big moving pieces between 3Q and 4Q.
So the unit costs on both models did decline sequentially or they were flat? They did come down in the quarter.
Okay.
And then just one final clarification when you say you expect the program to be cash flow positive in 2015 that’s deferred building but you deliver a few of the early production aircraft and you’re also including advances in advance of that production rate increase to help to get you to cash flow positive.
Is that right? Yeah that’s right Joe.
No change.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
And we’ll go to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So you are talking about the deferred going up another it sounds like $2.5 billion over the next three quarters that's a pretty big change.
Could you give us a little bit more granularity in terms of how much of that is inventory pull-forward how much of that is buffer stock and how much of that is other items? Yeah.
I guess Cai I’d put it into three categories.
First of all let me just back up.
The things we are doing on this program every day are all about driving cash and profitability over the long-term.
So there is going to be decision we make quarter-over-quarter or frankly between last year and this year and forward that are enhancements to the production system over the long-term that are proven we've done them on other programs and now it's about implementing them on the 787.
So there’s some of that in there that’s really again focused on investments over the long-term of the program.
On as far as labor we are coming down on unit cost but we are coming down in a lower rate than what we expected or anticipated.
And again we are doing that at these higher labor levels to really achieve the stability incorporate those reliability enhancements I talked about.
And then these productivity initiatives again they are going to take folks to work through each one of those at every sequence of the bill and we are working that.
And we are working at an enterprise level.
We are leveraging across Boeing.
So we know where the bottlenecks are or some of the challenges are.
So now it's about reaching -- when we reach the 10 a month capturing that and improving upon that.
On the supply chain side we’ve talked about the timing of some of our discussions and negotiations and some of those have moved out to the right and I think I’ve mentioned before that we're seeing a benefit in doing that.
These guys are still coming down the learning curve.
We are helping them in encapsulate productivity enhancements that we are seeing or able to achieve in Charleston and Everett we want to get that back into the supply chain.
And then from there we’ll mature our negotiations.
So again a near-term sacrifice but much long-term benefit frankly for us and our supplier.
But those are really the three main categories that we are faced with over the next kind of year and to the end of '15.
But very focused again on the long-term and very focused on improving cash in the program and none of those fundamental have changed.
Can you quantify any of those three items? No I can’t Cai.
I mean those are the main three categories like those are ones we are working on.
There is no I see significant split between the three of them.
Thank very much.
You are welcome.
And next we’ll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
I just wanted to see if you could help me out on two things.
One is on the C-17 can you talk about how many are on the balance sheet at the end of the year of 2014 and how many you are assuming will be there at the end of 2015? And then just looking at the share count assumption you have embedded in your guidance? That would seem to imply a pretty sizable buyback in order to get 40 million shares down on average over the course of the year? Can you try and size at all you are thinking around that? Well on C-17 we’ve got seven that remain unsold Sam.
We delivered seven last year.
We’ll deliver four in 2015 and then four in ’16 and then probably about two in ’17.
So we are in active discussions with customers for the balance of those aircraft remaining and we are highly confident that we’ll sell those and be able deliver them over that timeframe.
On the share count like I said earlier you saw what we did in ’14 we up the reauthorization.
So we are very focused on that and we’ll continue to execute and utilize that authorization.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Our next question is from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Morning.
Hey.
Greg if I kind of look at the last three years you’ve been running if you correct for the 787 after-tax 14 bucks a share pretty consistently over that period of time or about $10 billion? As you level off on the 787 any reason we shouldn't think about that as a starting point of discussion? I'm sorry Myles I wasn’t tracking exactly what you are focused on.
It’s over the last three years you correct for all the 787 inventory build… Yeah.
You’ve been doing a consistent level of $10 billion or about $14 a share in free cash flow.
Yeah.
Any reason that shouldn’t be the starting point of a discussion once you do level out on this 787 inventory? No.
I think that’s fair.
Okay.
That’s fair.
I mean obviously you've seen it it’s a significant focus area for us and any -- all elements around working capital and we are going to continue that effort going forward.
Just one clarification were there any adjustments on the accounting blocks in the quarter? Yes.
737 an increase of 200 of -- all of which were MAX airplanes.
Okay.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
And next we’ll go to Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the trajectory of CapEx and R&amp;D as we move out into ’16 ’17 maybe even into’18 just kind of relative to where we are going to be in ’15 we are going up down sideways on those items? All I mean CapEx this year obviously is just tied to the growth right it’s on the successful launch of this 777X the -10 and then of course 787 rate combined with 737.
So those are the real of a -- fundamental drivers of the growth in CapEx.
This year will be increased because of preparing for the entry into service of those aircraft and we will probably have a similar year next year and then it will start to decline from there.
And again all tied to growth all tied to the successful launches of those programs combined with productivity we’ve got additional productivity initiatives in here including the automation that Jim talked about and so that’s kind of the profile on CapEx.
For R&amp;D again 777X and 10X as 787-9 certainly winds down and 37 I’ll say MAX continues at a similar spend rate.
If you look at the entry into service on 777X you’re going to see a profile from here but again you’re going to see 10X declining.
So we’re continuing to manage it and look at further ways to optimize the R&amp;D spend as Jim has talked about a lot.
But for this year we’re seeing that about $3.5 billion and I think managing it very efficiently and taking advantage of a lot of things again that Jim highlighted in doing it in a more efficient and effective manner.
Just one quick follow-up on the 777 can you talk a little bit about what the impact is going to be on your ability to deliver aircraft late in the decade as you said they’re in the 777X will that be coming in at the slower flow time and will your ability to deliver come under some pressure as throughout late in the second… Well I don't think our ability to delivery will come under pressure but you'll have a very similar to what you’ve seen on the 787.
You’ll have some additional flow time associated with those early introductory units and that will get feathered into the current 777 as we deliver those.
So yeah I’d say it’s well planned out phasing in strategy that was really leveraged off the success of the 787 and that’s the plan going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Welcome.
And next we’ll go to Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Yes.
Good morning Jim and Greg.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey.
Jim I appraise you on the work here let me give you one.
Jim this book-to-bill ever go down again it’s another strong year? How are you thinking about ’15 and your comment on the 777 bridge you’re getting increasingly comfortable there? Yeah.
The 63 new is it was characterize that as just replacement of the -200 or could you give a little more color there? Thanks.
No.
I mean I think the -- I mean two examples with the ANA and Cutter where there was a blended order of both the new airplane the X as well as one of the current models.
I think in both cases the 300ERs and I’d maybe for getting exactly the model type in one of those cases.
But I think it is a sign that the capability is an enduring capability and the competition is -- I hate to say it this way but there is not much competition to this capability.
So versus any alternative both the old and the new make sense and it’s more a matter of satisfying demand and running a competitive airline that drives them to buy both types.
And so we’re in a fortunate position here.
And it's one that we will shamelessly take advantage of.
And on book-to-bill for ‘15.
Book-to-bill its early in the year I think it will at least be one to one would be is the way it looks now and we’ll see as the year goes forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Our next question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You’ve obviously done a fantastic job getting airplanes out the door.
Just wanted a follow-up on profitability however one would think unless I’m thinking about it wrong that given the volume of airplanes that the company has delivered that profitability in the quarter would've been better at Boeing Commercial Defense seemed to do wonderful.
And then as we go into next year without the volume of airplanes going out the door and given the overhead absorption that again margins would be higher than what you guys are projecting them to be? Yeah.
I mean in the quarter Ron 37 and 777 unchanged from quarter-over-quarter so no change in margins there.
And as I mentioned we did have a block extension on the 37.
This is really associated with period costs.
As you know we’re seasonably high in fourth quarter around taxes and fleet support and just the amount of deliveries we have.
And then some investments we've made across the business whether it takes several reliability or in some of the fleet management efforts.
So I’d say high in the quarter but not something that it would take forward from here.
Okay.
Okay.
And then one follow-on if I may in the defense business we haven’t talked heck a lot about that.
Whether any contract close out one time types of things in the quarter that boosted margins there? Nothing significant.
No.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Okay.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And that will be from Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just on the improvement cost on 87 I think you said that you took cost down about 30% over the last 170 odd airplanes something like that? Yeah.
175.
Right.
So now I'm guessing with the unit deferred as it stands a little over $30 million.
And I know there is some puts and takes and some things in that number that probably on aircraft specific.
But I’m guessing airplanes are costing these days somewhere around $130 million.
To get down to a breakeven level I would imagine you need about another 20% cost reduction from here give or take back to the envelope can that be done inside of a year with the volume of airplanes we’re talking about? Well we continue to have plans to reduce the unit cost on the program run whether it's through our only internal efforts or working with the supply chain.
So those initiatives are all laid out and now we got to go execute those and we have plans in place to do them.
Again this is stuff we know how to do.
We've done it on other programs and we’re putting obviously additional focus on that and this again remains a priority for us.
So at the same time we’re continuing to invest in productivity as I talked about.
As we get more mature with the production system we see more opportunities to do things better and more efficiently but they taken in investment.
So short-term investment -- short-term challenge but long-term significant gains for the program.
And that’s really where we got everybody focused.
Okay.
And then just a clarification from earlier your guidance embeds the buyback that you’ve talked about? Yes.
It embeds some point of buyback.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Jim and Greg.
If you have any questions following this part of the session please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we’re ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And first go to Jon Ostrower with Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jon.
Good morning Jon.
Just a bit of clarity on the math that you guys presented on the 77 deferred production.
Obviously you’re passing $26 billion on deferred cost with 1 100 airplanes to go in your accounting block.
So you're booking a positive margin on 787.
Just really flat out mean to zero those deferred costs just really simple back on the envelope you need to be generating $25 million in profit per plane starting today.
And obviously there’s a curve in there and you guys haven't hit the unit breakeven yet so the $25 million figures even higher than that.
So I mean at what point of the assumption that you’re putting to your accounting efforts that are generating your record earnings.
Ultimately do they reflect the reality of the 787 programs cost reductions ultimately keeping the program stable? Well Jon.
I guess I’d start with as I said the fundamental milestone around the 787 being the cash positive than the deferred planning after we reach 12 a month 2016 haven’t changed.
And the focus on the program hasn’t changed.
It’s all around again being more efficient on each unit in capturing additional unit cost.
There are initiatives within the supply chain.
Obviously there is initiative within our factory and we’re working to capture those and continue the journey on the successful productivity we have in the program today.
That’s what everybody is focused on ultimately leading to again cash positive in 2015.
Our next questions from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg News.
Please go ahead.
Oh hi all.
Good morning.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Just wanted to follow up on something that we saw late in 2014 Zodiac had some issues with C deliveries and certification and I know it affected some 787 deliveries.
And they had cautioned that it's taking longer than they had anticipated to straighten some of those issues out.
Just wondering if you see any trickle over into Q1 and if this is potential a warning sign or red flag as you prepare to ramp up 737 and 787 production.
I think there is no question that seat supply did impact some deliveries and some fall in our production system.
We are working through it now.
We see it being resolved this year.
We regret any impact it has had on our customers but it’s all been within our plans and within our guidance as we work through it.
I think the supply base is adjusting to these higher volumes both 787 and anticipated higher volumes and another programs and I think they'll be ready.
And next we’ll go to Doug Cameron with Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The quarterly defense question Jim you got some -- you got funding for some old Growlers in the 2015 budget.
What are your thoughts of the timing for the future of this impious line and does it depend at all on what happens with the Long Range Strike contest which is upcoming? Yeah.
I mean I think the statuses where true costs to the end of the decade on F-15s which is a big pieces of St.
Louis.
We’ve regained momentum on F-18s.
I think in the minds of many there remains a need beyond that order.
So there is a good chance that that line could continue at least to the end of the decade.
Although we do not yet have firm orders that's an assessment.
And there is no question that when we win Long-Range Strike and I'm sounding as confident as I can because I do believe we will that it will solidify the future of St.
Louis for many many years to come.
Our next question from Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Hello gentleman.
Question for Greg.
You mentioned delivering some early 787s this year early build 787s.
There is something like 11 airplanes.
Mostly the Terrible Teens as they are called that have been sitting there for four years and more.
And about a year ago a couple of customers seemed that those were earmarked for a pulled out Transaero was one of them.
So two questions about -- two parts to a question about that.
First of all is there any chance those have to be written off or sold so cheaply that it's almost the same thing and we get some accounting charges for those plans? And then secondly it looks like you want to deliver maybe three this year maybe three next year very slow output.
Is that a deliberate strategy because of the hefty unit costs every time one of them enters the delivery stream? Not at all.
The timing of the deliveries is really solely tied to when we finish the work on the aircraft.
And frankly it's a matter of prioritizing the teams that have taken them off the production line and moving them over on the early build.
So that is the only thing tied into that.
It’s really just about finishing up the aircraft for the customers.
With regards the aircraft themselves we continued to see a viable market and we are in active discussions with many customers related to those airplanes.
So that is fundamentally how we're handling the EMC airplanes and you are right.
I mean we are work through them in a prudent fashion and we do expect to deliver three or four this year.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media.
And that will be from Christopher Drew with the New York Times.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good morning.
Jim you mentioned space and I was just wondering if you could talk us a minute about what it's like to compete with SpaceX with their lower cost and aggressive lobbying and political clout in Washington? In various ways that you Boeing and the United Launch Alliance compete with them and what you see happening in the long run in some of these areas? I have respect for SpaceX.
I think they offer more limited mission types than we do at this stage.
But their combination of focus on gaining capability at improved cost is going to benefit the market.
It will make us a better competitor in some segments where cost has become more important.
I suspect that we will retain the lead in those segments where often manned type missions that go a long way into many places we’ve never been before.
I see the advantage we have there will sustain itself for a long period of time.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for member of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to The Boeing Company’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analysts and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I am turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing’s first quarter 2015 earnings call.
I am Troy Lahr and with me today are Jim McNerney Boeing’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Greg Smith Boeing’s Chief Financial Officer.
After comments by Jim and Greg we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
As always we have provided detailed financial information in today’s press release and you can follow this broadcast and slide presentation through our Web site at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals included in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risks which is detailed in our news release and our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this web presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning everybody.
My comments today will focus on our positive first quarter performance and what we see as a continued healthy business environment.
After that Greg will walk you through the details of our financial results and outlook.
Now let's move to Slide 2 please.
Building on the strong performance trend we sustained through 2014 Boeing delivered solid first quarter 2015 financial results including higher revenue healthy core earnings -- healthy core operating margins and double-digit growth in core earnings per share.
We also continued to return cash to shareholders in the first quarter by repurchasing $2.5 billion of Boeing stock and increasing our dividend as promised by 25% for a payout of $639 million.
Revenue at Boeing commercial airplanes increased 21% to 15.4 billion and operating margins were 10.5%.
We delivered 184 commercial airplanes in the quarter and added 110 net new orders.
Key milestones in the quarter included delivery of the first 787-9 built at Boeing South Carolina.
The opening of our South Carolina propulsion systems facility and start-up of an automated wing panel assembly on the 737 program in Renton.
Boeing defense space and security reported revenue in the first quarter of 6.7 billion and generated strong operating margins of 11.1%.
Key contract awards included orders for 43 AH-64E Apache helicopters a multi-year combat logistics support contract and an order from SES for an all electric 702SP satellite.
In addition the U.S.
Air Force selected the 747-8 as the next Presidential Aircraft.
Noteworthy program milestones in the quarter included launching the first two all electric propulsion satellites double stacked on a single rocket and building - and breaking ground on the crew access tower which will support the commercial crew program and replicating a best practice to bolstering performance on development programs by establishing a single unified defense and space development programs organization.
Our success with the similar structure put in place at commercial airplanes starting with the development of the 787-9 shows that we can leverage synergies and expertise across different development programs to reduce cost and risk and better ensure performance as promised to our customers.
This new organization will oversee current and future development efforts including work on the KC-46 tanker the 747-8 Presidential Aircraft our commercial crew spacecraft and space launch system rocket the 502 small satellite and our St.
Louis based 777X work package.
In summary we delivered another strong quarter of operating performance achieved significant program milestones cash at orders totaling $15 billion and returned significant cash to shareholders all of which Greg will cover in more detail in a moment.
With that let's turn to the business environment on Slide 3.
Strong airline profitability healthy global air traffic trends and our backlog totaling more than 5 700 aircraft all combined to underpin our plan production rate increases over the remainder of the decade.
Our long-term outlook also remains positive as we expect airline fleet growth and replacement demand to drive the need for nearly 37 000 commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
As evidenced by the healthy pace of orders during the first quarter conversations with our airline customers continue to center on new purchases or accelerating delivery slots.
Deferral requests are still running well below the historical average these remain very good times for our industry.
As I mentioned on last quarter’s call historically airplane orders are highly correlated to airline profitability.
And lower oil prices have not fundamentally changed our customers view on fleet planning or their commitment to existing delivery schedules.
The rapid return on investment from new more efficient airplanes remains a compelling factor in purchase decisions and a fuel price environment that remains even if it remains well below the 15 year average.
As a remainder in addition to far better fuel efficiency and lower maintenance costs our new technologically advanced airplanes also often deliver higher passenger and cargo revenue increased residual values a better overall passenger experience and greater range that grows market opportunities by allowing for new city pairs and more optimal routes.
All of these elements provide significant value to our customers over the life of the aircraft.
Further to those points demand for both the 777 and the 777X remains strong.
The 777 production line is essentially sold out for 2016 approximately half sold out in 2017 and has a healthy number of slots already sold firm in 2018.
As we've discussed before the new 777X is scheduled to enter final assembly in the 2018 timeframe and will leverage new manufacturing processes and technologies being proven on the current 777 to optimize the overall 777X production system.
We will continue to assess most efficient way to phase in this new technology and adapt as necessary to ensure we meet our customers' commitments.
On the 787 program we have now delivered more than 250 airplanes including 20-9s.
Notable among the strong new bookings during the quarter was ANAs order for three 787-10s 787-10 development remains on track for first delivery in 2018.
In the single aisle segment demand for our new fuel efficient 737 MAX also remains high with cumulative orders totaling more than 2 700 airplanes from 57 customers development of the MAX remains on track for first delivery in 2017.
Turning to defense space and security we continued to see solid support for our major programs.
The President's fiscal 2016 budget request included increases for core Boeing production programs such as P-8A Poseidon Apache and Chinook helicopters key development programs such as tanker Long-Range Strike and commercial crew also saw budget increases.
International demand for our offerings remains strong particularly in the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region.
During the first quarter international customers for defense space and security represented 23% of revenue and 37% of our current backlog.
Our investments in technology and innovation for organic growth continue in areas such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance and the few critical future franchise programs like Long-Range Strike and the T-X Trainer which are priorities for our customers.
The relative strength of our defense space and security business stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven and affordable supported by our ongoing market-based affordability initiative which is focused on reducing operating cost by another $1 billion on top of the $5 billion already achieved which will ensure competitiveness through the ongoing downturn in domestic defense spending.
Overall our business strategies are aligned to the realities and the opportunities of our markets and our teams are executing them well to deliver increased top line and bottom line performance support the needs of our customers and capture new business to sustain our growth and profitability for the decades to come.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg? Thanks Jim and good morning.
Let's turn to Slide 4 and we’ll discuss our first quarter results.
First quarter revenue increased 8% to 22.1 billion driven by strong commercial airplane deliveries.
Core earnings per share for the quarter increased 12% to $1.97 driven on higher commercial airplane volume and continued strong operating performance.
Let's now discuss commercial airplanes on Slide 5.
For the first quarter our Commercial Airplanes business increased revenue 21% to 15.4 billion on a 184 airplane deliveries and reported operating margins of 10.5%.
Strong operating margins in the quarter were primarily driven by higher volume continued focus on productivity and program mix.
Commercial Airplanes captured $9.8 billion of net orders during the first quarter and backlog remains very strong at 435 billion and over 5 700 aircrafts equating to approximately eight years of production.
Specifically on the 787 program we continued to expect the program to be cash positive during 2015 and we still anticipate deferred production to decline shortly after we’ve achieved the 12 per month production rate in 2016.
No change to these fundamental milestones.
We continue to see progress in key operational performance indicators for the 787 program as we further implement production efficiencies while meaningfully increasing the 787-9 production and managing through some near-term disruption in supply chain largely around cabin interiors.
Despite these challenges and with a lot of hard work from the team we delivered 30 787s in the quarter and made further progress on reducing unit costs.
On the 787-8 we’ve seen a decline in unit cost of approximately 30% over the last of 190 deliveries and furthermore the 787-9 unit cost declined approximately 25% over the first 20 deliveries.
In line with our expectations and as declining rate 787 deferred production increase 793 million to $27 billion in the first quarter and as we previously discussed we continued to anticipate 787 deferred production to grow at similar levels for the next couple of quarters before seeing a healthy decline in the growth later in this year.
We remain focused on the solid day-to-day execution risk reduction and improving a long-term productivity and cash flow going forward.
We continue to manage the smooth ramp of the 787-9 production compared for the 12 rate per month introduction of the 787-10 while also driving efficiencies across all aspects of the program.
Let's turn now to Defense Space and Security results on Slide 6.
First quarter revenue at our defense business was 6.7 billion and operating margins were strong at 11.1% largely driven by solid performance and favorable mix.
Boeing military aircraft first quarter revenue declined to 2.7 billion primarily driven by planned timing of C-17 and F-15 deliveries.
Operating margins at 9.5% reflect delivery mix that offset improved operating performance.
Network and Space Systems reported revenue of 1.7 billion and increased operating margins to 9.6% in the quarter resulting from higher ULA earnings.
Global Services and Support revenue was 2.2 billion and operating margins increased to 14.1% on solid operating performance in favorable program mix.
Defense Space and Security reported a solid backlog of $60 billion with 37% of our current backlog representing customers outside the United States.
Next slide please.
Operating cash flow; operating cash flow for the first quarter was approximately a $100 billion driven by solid operating performance and as expected the timing of receipts and expenditures that were largely benefited late in Q4 of 2014.
We continued to expect 2015 operating cash flow to be more than $9 billion with the majority of that being generated in the second half of the year.
With regards to capital deployment as Jim mentioned we paid 639 million in dividends and repurchased 17 million shares for $2.5 billion in the first quarter as we continued to deliver our commitments to our shareholders and furthermore this reflects our ongoing confidence in a long-term outlook for our business.
We continued to anticipate completing the remaining 9.5 billion repurchase authorization over the next two to three years.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investment to support future growth remains top priority for us.
Moving to cash and debt balances on Slide 8.
We ended the quarter with 9.6 billion of cash in marketable securities and our cash balance continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us very well going forward.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 and I’ll discuss our outlook for 2015.
We are reaffirming our 2015 guidance for revenue operating margins core earnings deliveries in cash flow.
And overall we’re very pleased with the first quarter performance as the core operating engine continues to deliver strong results and we expect that performance to continue as we remain focused on production program profitability rate ramp up and ongoing productivity improvement.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Jim for some closing comments.
Thank you Greg.
With a strong first quarter behind us we remain focused on disciplined execution quality and productivity improvements and meeting customer commitments.
Our priority is going forward are clear and consistent.
The profitable ramp up in commercial airplane production executing well on our development programs driving efficiencies throughout the enterprise continuing to strengthen our defense business and importantly providing increasing value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Now we’d be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder in the interest of time we are asking that you limit yourself to one single part question.
And our first question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
You talked about -- there could be a number of questions to ask.
But you talked about being able to make some real progress with the 777 bridge.
Could you elaborate a little bit on that and Jim maybe talk about the quality and the characterization of the discussions you're having with customers? Yes I think 777 you've heard my speech before Howard unique airplane in terms of its capability and where its positioned in the market so a real opportunity to manage this bridge well.
So far so good I think last year's performance was good I think this year where we stand now we've got 25 orders and commitments in-hand today that's roughly half or just short of half of what we're looking forward for the entire year.
I mentioned the production skyline in '16 '17 and '18 and it's beginning to firm up.
So we're increasingly confident that we can implement this bridge and it's important not only commercially and to keep the rate going but as I mentioned in my comments we're sort of feathering in some new technology on the current airplane the ER so it's tested and de-risked by the time we get to the X.
So this bridge has lots of value for us lots of value for our customers.
So steady she goes.
Maybe just to follow up for a second you talk about feathering in some of this technology and in the press release you talk about accelerating some of the development milestones.
So are we to take that that in fact the R&amp;D programs are -- whether it's the MAX or the 10 or the X are coming in a little bit better than your current budgets? No what I would say is on budget slightly ahead on de-risking in other words things are -- we're spending about what we had planned but the technical advances or the reliability that we're shooting for is coming in a little bit more robustly than we'd hope.
And as you recall we've got a development organization that is 100% focused on development now and that gives us much greater visibility and much more objectivity around these kinds of milestones.
Next question is from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
So your 787 deferreds per unit built looked like they went from 32 in the fourth to 26 million maybe give us some color this looks like better performance than we'd expected was this better than your performance expectations? How did the 787-9 and 787-8 do? And is the 787-8 now in a cash positive mode with regard to deferreds? Yes what I would say Cai when you look over that timeframe we have seen improved performance in particular I noted on the 787-9 as they're coming down the learning curve in a very aggressive manner.
And I think that goes to the lessons learned off the 787-8 and getting those into the production system.
So that introduction of that airplane is going very well and as you know that will be close to half of our deliveries this year so that smooth introduction is important.
When you look quarter-over-quarter as you know Cai mix comes into play so we did have some early 787-9s actually the first two coming out of Charleston so that played into the shift quarter-over-quarter.
But I'd say fundamentally again the program continues to make good improvements on unit cost still got a long way to go but making good progress.
And maybe a follow-up you had mentioned the cabin interior disruptions what impact did that have on the 87? And when do you think you'll have that behind you? Well I mean Cai we delivered the 30 airplanes which was the production rate but it's disruptive it added additional pressure obviously on deferred and you see by the growth in the deferred we were able to offset some of that through our own productivity.
But certainly it's been disruptive there is recovery plans in place we're part of that recovery we're actively engaged with them and we don't see that impacting our deliveries through the balance of the year.
And next we'll go to Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
I'd like to just continue on that with the 787.
If you look at the increases that you're seeing in deferred and as I look at the numbers for this quarter it looks pretty much on the trajectory you described last quarter.
But can you parse this out into buckets? And what I mean by that is things that would be one-time investments I would say higher costs on early 787-9 deliveries and potentially other factors related to operations of the supply chain.
How would you divide this up? I mean how much falls into each category? I'd say roughly Doug it's about a third a third a third through breaking each one of those pieces down.
Certainly as we talked about maintaining some higher employment as we work through incorporating reliability and driving productivity initiatives obviously getting ready to de-risk for the 787-10 to 12 a month and the early introduction of the 787-9.
And as you know you’ve been covering this business a long time and this is about a smooth introduction you've seen on a wide body program and particularly one that is at record production rates.
And that's attributed to really risk reduction effort and focus early on in the program.
Some of the supplier negotiations that we talked about moving some of those to the right as we get more mature on the learning curve within those suppliers.
And then some of the productivity initiatives as I've highlighted where we're really seeing opportunities to drive further value in the program over the long-term but requires some upfront investment.
Those are very good business cases.
Those are absolutely the right thing to do to drive long-term profitability and cash for this program and those are obviously remain a top priority for us and at the same time we're looking for more opportunities to capture further productivity and cash that will require more investment.
So we're continuing to focus on that and again I think it's absolutely the right thing to do for the program and again driving long-term profitability and that's the focus.
And if I can on a follow-up on this on the 787-9 in principle I mean this is an airplane that will have higher pricing.
You've done design a lot of design work to lower manufacturing costs for it.
So in theory this should be a very attractive airplane from a profitability standpoint.
Can you give us a sense of when you expect the 787-9 to become cash positive? I don't really look at it that way Doug.
I mean I look at the program as a whole.
And the productivity focus is not just on the 787-9.
It's across the entire value chain of 787-8 and 787-9 but again on the overall profile when you combine the 787-8 to 787-9 we expect to be cash positive during 2015.
So that hasn't changed but the fundamentals again are more across the entire either supply chain or internally whether it's a 787-8 a 787-9 or a 787-10 where do we drive additional productivity.
Next we'll go to Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Greg I wondered if you might clarify something on the 777 for me.
I'm just sort of wondering what the implications of inserting some of these productivity investments into the ER production line are on the margin front for that program.
Is that -- by including those in the sort of end of line ERs ahead of the 777X does that have a negative margin impact of any significance? And then secondly how should we think about the impact of splitting the 777X into its own block and what that will mean for overhead and non-recurring investments is that a material upper in the other direction? How should we think about those impacts? First to answer to your last question is no.
As far as the introduction of this we extend the block by 50 units this quarter and that investment that we talked about that's going to apply on the 777 eventually 777X that cost is incorporated.
So those are in our booking rates this quarter.
I would tell you very smooth introduction.
When I say that proving out this technology outside the production system in an isolated -- again outside the mainstream production proving it out making it rate capable and then a smooth implementation as you're continuing to build 8.3 a month.
So a lot of that prove out again risk reduction investment upfront but long-term profitability in the program doing that outside the production system.
So we've been doing that and that'll stay the plan to implement that into the mainstream production.
So I don't view that as high risk.
I think the de-risking activity has been very prudent and if we see any issues along the way we have a plan B or I'd say an off-ramp to continue with the current production system.
So I think the risk is very managed.
Now the opportunity obviously is increasing or reducing flow time better quality and ultimately better unit cost.
So very good investments for us over the long-term of the 777 plus the 777X.
And was there any impact on the program margin as a result of the block extension? Yes.
Up or down? Slightly down.
And keep in mind too Carter escalation comes into play here that some of the productivity that came through in the booking rate some of that was offset by escalation that impacted the booking rates across all the programs.
But again strong productivity across all the programs.
Next we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the supply chain and the $2 billion increase in the gross inventory.
We know about the seat issue GE talked about not being able to deliver all the engines that they would have liked and so I guess to what extent do those delays impact that inventory number and where do you see issues in the supply chain that concern you as you talk about going up to 12 a month? Well I mean some of that Sam is just the fact that we're going up in rate.
So there is some of that.
The disruption we've talked about again the team has done a fantastic job managing through that disruption reaching back into the supply chain and helping wherever we can help out.
And there is recovery plans in place.
So watch item certainly been disruptive but certainly not something we see impacting the deliveries for the year.
And can you tell us when in 2016 you plan to go to 12 a month? Later in '16.
Next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Jim I was wondering if you might spend a few minutes talking about the defense business.
In particular comment on the sales efforts on the C-17 and then maybe provide some updated thoughts on say the next five years in the defense business historically talked about this being flattish with some programs coming up some coming down.
Maybe just an update there would be helpful.
I think the summary would be the outlook remains challenging but recently looking a little better as I read the political dynamics just overall comment about the marketplace particularly the US Congress driven marketplace.
But to the specifics of your questions C-17s we've got orders and commitments that leave about five to go.
We have a lot of action on those five so I think the team made the right call on when to curtail the program.
You always want to curtail these things where you end up having a little more demand than you've got airplanes at the end so hold pricing and production and that is playing out well for us.
I think in the face of sequestration the reason for my optimism and it's not wild-eyed optimism it's a matter of sort of Ryan Murray 2.0 sort of maybe extending the kind of budget compromise that had been fashioned a couple of years ago another couple of years and that may turn into a broader consensus dealing with sequestration in a balanced way.
So it's little more optimism that that will sort out and based on newspaper reports I've seen Murray and Ryan are working together again trying to come up with some kind of a budget compromise that would include the defense portion.
We're well marked up in the President's budget request more than our fair share of sort of the jump balls I guess is the way to put it.
And so our backlog remains strong our profitability because our productivity plans assume the worst and what we would like to do is be surprised and so that's the reason you're seeing strong margins in the first quarter in our defense business notwithstanding some timing on the deliveries which we'll sort out by year-end did that give you the flavor you were looking for? Yes just -- maybe just to put a little bit finer tooth on this.
You've got risk on F-18 F-15 towards the end of the decade its long talked about tanker and PA offsetting those declines.
Is that still the broad brush stroke view of the world? Yes and I think F-18 and F-15 may have more legs to them yet to be proven than the last time I made that comment so little bit more bullish there.
But long-term that is the way I look at it.
The only other thing I'd add to that is that there are three or four major development programs that are in play right now Long-Range Strike is one tanker is another one the U-class is another one and so there's some major programs and if we win our market -- sort of our market share's worth of those or maybe a little better that will provide some upside to the equation you mentioned.
Our next question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrell Lynn.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick question on customer advances it seems like more recently that's been more volatile than it has been in the past and just kind of thinking about it has there been a change in policy around how you collect the PDPs? Meaning with backlogs going out so far is it to your advantage to try to collect some of those PDPs maybe sooner monetizing it sooner than waiting eight years for those PDPs? Does that make sense? No change Ron.
No change.
I mean what you're really just seeing is just the timing of those.
And as you've heard me talk about before as you go up and rate obviously and with the strong order book we've seen more advances but the timing of those quarter-over-quarter very difficult to see a trend there.
And you really got to look at it over a year-over-year and frankly over a 24 month period because of the size of those some of those as well as milestone payments so very difficult to look at quarter-over-quarter base but no change.
I would say as far as cash flow goes the outlook for operating cash from us remains unchanged and we still see strong cash flow this year again greater than $9 billion and continued growth as we come out of '15 into '16.
Advances are certainly a part of that but just the core operating performance and the fact that our delivery rates will continue to go up as we deliver on the 5 700 airplanes.
So our view on cash flow again is very solid and remains unchanged And if I can just follow on with just a more technical question.
On the 777X I think you guys have said that the center wing box is going to be aluminum as oppose to carbon fiber.
What can we read into that with that move on that aircraft compared to what was done on the 787? I wouldn't read anything into it Ron.
Obviously when we go through the design of the airplane I won't pretend to be a design engineer here but everything's taken into consideration as far as efficiency of the operating economics of the airplane and the weights and that gets taken into consideration maturity of technology and obviously development costs and recurring costs to build the airplane.
So those are a few things that obviously is important key factors we take into account when we're making tradeoffs between one type of I'll say application versus another.
And there was no change there.
That was always the plan.
And next we'll go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Greg you did 10.5% of BCA margins in the quarter it looks like mix and volume would actually be modest helps for the rest of the year.
Doesn't look like R&amp;D should be much of a headwind and it sounds like the 777 kind of extension was a negative in this quarter.
So other than conservatism how do you put it to the 9% to 10% guidance for the year? I kind of put it into three main areas Myles.
I mean R&amp;D we do expect R&amp;D to pick up a little bit in the back half in particular 777X ramping up.
We'll have more 787-9 deliveries 787-9 deliveries and then with more 747s as well.
So that's I'll say the dilutive impact for the margins going through the balance of the year.
Having said that obviously we got everybody extremely focused on continued good productivity and we will through the balance of the year.
But it's really that mix that's driving it.
And just one clarification.
You said the majority of cash in the second half are you thinking two-thirds or are you talking 80%? Well I would say traditionally as you know we're back loaded but third quarter and fourth quarter will be heavier than first quarter and second quarter and again progress payments milestones and then just delivery profile.
Our next question is from Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to get a clarification from Jim and then a question for Greg.
Jim on the 777 you mentioned 25 orders and commitments but I think you printed just the seven orders in the quarter.
So are these still in process? Are they falling to Q2? Well we don't mention commitments unless things are largely done.
So things are largely done.
And there is timing considerations and some cases driven by customer requirements and things and so we let the customer decide when to finally approve and release.
But I have a very high degree of confidence in the 25 number.
And then Greg on cash flow just going back sort of follow-up to Ron's question.
So you probably have let's call it after tax a $1 billion to $2 billion tailwind on 787 deferred.
And you're guiding to a flattish operating cash flow somewhat flattish net income and I know timing's at work there a little bit.
But given that how should we think about the advance and inventory -- physical inventory balances at the end of the year here? I imagine that there is some offset to the deferred tailwind in terms of a headwind on advances and physical inventory.
Like I said Rob timing around advances in milestones can swing significantly quarter-over-quarter and as you said year-over-year.
So that comes into play as well as as I said delivery mix and even the way the orders are profiled through the balance of the year.
So again the outlook on cash flow for this year unchanged.
Greater than $9 billion that's what everybody's focused on generating.
Again quarter-over-quarter you're going to see variance in there.
And those elements I described are really what the big shifts in quarter-over-quarter; I'll say fluctuation you're going to see.
But nothing's changed on the cash flow Rob and we continue to remain extremely focused and I think you've seen $2.5 billion share repurchase in the quarter alone I think should give you some idea of the confidence we have in executing to our business plan and just the overall business environment and executing on the total backlog.
But Greg just to be clear you can do the 9 billion even if advanced balances decline? We don't anticipate any change from what we talk about when we gave guidance.
So again I see advances about flattish year-over-year from 2014.
But those are all scheduled.
We know where they're timed and we know where they're coming from and we have the confidence that we'll obtain all those as we normally do.
So I don't see any change there.
And our next question is from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Jim a question on the -- you mentioned the deferral request continuing to run at record low rates and kind of accelerated purchases.
Do you still feel confident about kind of the bookings environment? I guess it speaks to the health of your backlog but you still think you can get a book-to-bill one this year? Yes I think we'll get a book-to-bill of one I mean there -- when I look at the pipeline I look what's happened so far in the first quarter that remains how I see it coming in.
And I think that's a healthy sign after a number of years well above that but remember a lot of the demand out there is replacement demand new technology replacing old technology.
We're in a technology cycle now we're not tied to GDP growth.
We're tied to very favorable replacement economics and so half of our growth is replacement the half is sort of new routes new airlines opening up and new deliveries more tied to GDP.
But that's the nice thing about what innovation can do for you.
Yes and is there any concern about just in when you mentioned oil that you're not seeing any push back just related to that are you some of your leasing customers have asked production rates not to go up as where they as high as they indicated are you worried about kind of the capacity aspect or is it just related to replacement cycle? Yes I think said another way the replacement cycle numbers still work really well with oil at current prices.
Remember we launched the 787 at roughly 25% lower oil prices than we have today.
So we felt very confident then and we even more so do now in a higher oil price environment from then that is an attractive proposition for our customer.
And as I said the order trends relating more when you just look at the stats you look at the R squared the relate more to airline profitability than it does to temporary fluctuations in the dollar or in oil prices.
And they might be very profitable now.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And that will be from the line of Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Sort of a follow-up for the previous question actually it was about the sort of the comments you've made Jim over the last couple of calls about running below historical deferral cancellation rates.
Can you give me some more color on that? How are you tracking that? Did you look back at that metric to sort of where we are in prior cycles at this point in time or did you sort of like a rolling historical look back? Is there any way you can sort of give us some color on how you look at that metric and help us sort of think about it and quantifying it? It's sort of rolling look back the specific back metric.
I think this question I started working this into our presentations when we -- this is the forego last sir -- back in the last dip and people were concerned likely so about that metric and we just sort of kept it in place.
But just to my experience over the last decade we have remained at bottom-ish part of the cycle top part of the cycle.
The last decade or so we've remained below that historical average which is a good thing.
We can breakout the number for you a little more finally if you like but in general I think the point is valid through the cycles of last 10 years.
And Greg maybe a quick follow-up for you on the comment you made about advances came roughly flat.
I thought you said at the conference last month or they are going to be maybe down a little bit because of lack rate breaks or you just trying to PDPs or are there any other noise in the advances line that would cause that maybe disconnect or might I just -- did I mishear you? I mean I was talking on commercial there is a little bit more on the BDS side that's driving that.
That completes analysts' question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I'll now turn you to the Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you we will continue this morning with media questions for Jim and Greg if you have any questions following this part of the session please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we’re ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And we'll go to Jon Ostrower with the Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Question about Boeing South Carolina I am just -- withdrew their quest for election there late last week I am just curious Jim your thoughts on the site today and looking forward as far as the relations with the union more broadly? And whether or not there any lessons to learn from how Boeing is dealt with workforce there in terms of more broadly looking at what's going on back in Puget Sound and sort of how to manage that relationship and whether or not there potentially Boeing South Carolina your view to have sustained on union for to be a competitive site? Listen you're right they decided not to go through with the election presumably because they felt they didn’t have the votes but you'd have to ask them specifically about why they were through.
We are very happy with our relationship with our teammates down in South Carolina the site is technically and on manufacturing certification engineering basis doing very well I am very pleased with its progress.
But I also highly value the relationship that we all with our employees in Puget Sound.
I mean we -- one group has a union and one doesn’t we prefer to have a direct relationship with our employees but when they choose to have a union we want to work with them.
So it's not either or our task is to work with both environments and to grow them to their potential and so -- but very happy with developments down South Carolina that place is really doing well.
Our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg News.
Please go ahead.
Airbus said today that they're looking at boosting A320 production past 60 months and I am just wondering if Boeing is studying a similar increase in narrow body output.
And if there are concerns at this point about the supply chains ability to keep pace with some of the increases coming down? Didn’t see Airbus’ comments today but it's the -- I think our supply chain has anticipated robust growth probably from both of us they see the orders and the backlogs as we do we spend a lot of time talking with our supply chain working on them with readiness.
On readiness issues I should say we’ve announced 52 they count a little bit differently 60 is not -- is roughly the same as 52 54 I've forgotten how the math works.
But I think the supply chain is ready and we’ve spend a lot of time investing in getting them ready.
Our next question is from Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to ask for an update on tanker and very specifically we learned from the GAO report this month a couple of things first of all that the flight tests are -- you're going to start production ahead of the flight test.
So could you speak to the risk of that? And a very specific question the GAO report says that Boeing’s own estimates of the cost over on the initial development phase is $380 million is that amount covered by the charge you took last July the pre-tax 425 million or is that some anticipated new charge later? I am not sure about the last number….
There is no anticipated charge Dominic our….
I don’t know where they got it from.
I mean our estimates taken all that into consideration on first flight as well as completing the balance of the airplanes.
Certainly there is work left to be done here and we’re going to get the airplane into the air sometime this summer and that will be fully militarized and we’ll see how that goes and continue to execute the balance of the program.
There is no change to the financial position on program at this point.
Operator we have time for one last question.
And that will be from Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
I wondered if you could say a bit more about why you feel confident that the zodiac seat problems are resolved.
They have said today they got to the root of the problem but that they are still anticipating from disruption.
Can you tell me more about that what gives you confidence that it won’t disrupt your deliveries this year? I think that all of the problems are not resolved.
We do have a high confidence in the plan to resolve them we have and it's because our people are deeply involved with them in the resolution.
We don’t anticipate a lot of it being work through till the end of the second quarter.
But it's -- we’ve all figured out a way to work together that it's not going to disrupt our production plans and we’re pleased to see their response now to getting this fixed.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for member of the media if you have further questions please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Good day everyone and welcome to The Boeing Company's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
I'm Troy Lahr and with me today are Dennis Muilenburg Boeing's President and Chief Executive Officer; Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer; and Jim McNerney Boeing's Chairman.
After management comments we will take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
We've provided detailed financial information in today's press release and you can follow the broadcast and presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals in our discussions today are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release various SEC filings and the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim McNerney.
Thank you Troy and good morning to everyone.
As you all know in June our Board of Directors elected Dennis as Chief Executive Officer of the company effective July 1.
The move was the result of a dedicated effort over several years to develop the future leaders of this company including my successor as CEO.
This has always been a top priority.
Our aim was a seamless transition and continuity in our business strategy and overall direction and that's exactly how it's playing out.
I look forward to continuing to work with Dennis and Greg from my role as Chairman.
In a moment I'll turn this call and all subsequent ones over to them.
But before doing that let me just say a very few words about where we are as a company at the start of our 100th year which began July 2015.
These calls tend to have a heavy focus on our performance quarter-to-quarter and rightfully so.
But when you zoom out for a wider perspective a clear picture emerges of an enterprise that is unified in its mission and purpose to lead the industry.
It is as strong as it has ever been financially and is positioned to deliver sustained profitable growth in the years ahead.
The commercial defense and space markets we serve are large and growing at a global level.
We have already captured a significant share of that growth in our unprecedented backlog.
And unlike many companies our opportunity is largely organic and harvesting it rests on our execution a good place to be.
As we deliver that backlog to customers we are intensely focused on productivity and profitability to drive increased shareholder returns and to reinvest in technology and innovation to further strengthen our market leading portfolio of products and services.
The board of directors and I are confident that Dennis and the strong team supporting him including company Vice Chairman Ray Connor will succeed in growing our company and serving the interests of our employees customers and shareholders communities and other business partners.
With that let me turn it over to Dennis for a summary of our second quarter results and the business environment.
Dennis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jim.
And Jim thanks for your leadership over the last 10 years and your continued support and partnership.
And good morning everybody.
Let me start by saying it is a privilege to assume leadership of this great company and the more than 160 000 talented employees who comprise it.
With Jim at the helm over the past decade we developed a winning playbook and set a solid foundation for our future.
Our job going forward is to deliver on our existing commitments build on our strengths and improve where needed to create an even bigger better Boeing in our second century.
Now let's turn to slide two to discuss the second quarter.
Boeing delivered strong second quarter operating performance across our production programs and services businesses with higher revenue on record commercial airplane deliveries.
Notably we also generated significant cash flow totaling $3.3 billion.
With this strong cash flow and confidence in our long-term outlook we continue to make strategic R&amp;D and capital investments and return cash to our shareholders.
During the quarter we purchased $2 billion of Boeing stock and paid $625 million in dividends.
Year-to-date we have returned nearly $6 billion to our shareholders which remains a top priority for us under our balanced cash deployment strategy.
As we announced last week our very strong second quarter operating performance was impacted by $536 million after-tax charge to complete development and hold to the delivery schedule on our KC-46 Tanker program for the U.S.
Air Force.
That program as you know is being developed on a fixed price contract.
The increased company investment in that program is primarily driven by required rework on the integrated fuel system that was identified as we prepared for and conducted ground and flight tests and verification of that system during the second quarter.
The integrated fuel system is the last major system to undergo component qualification testing.
No new technology is needed to resolve these issues which are well defined and understood but that in no way mitigates our disappointment in having to take this charge.
Our teams are very focused on executing the plan to meet our commitment to deliver 18 KC-46A Tankers to our Air Force customer by August 2017 and 179 tankers by 2027.
To that end we completed initial air-worthiness flight testing in the second quarter which is a major milestone.
And test aircraft number one will return to flight this month followed by the first flight of aircraft number two yet this summer.
To be clear though we do have a lot more work to do as we progress through the remaining ground and flight test phases but we are on the right path.
We also remain confident in the long-term financial value of the tanker program for our company.
With a potential market of up to 400 aircraft worth $80 billion we expect to realize strong returns over decades of production and in-service support.
Now turning to our core operating performance during the quarter revenue at Boeing Commercial Airplanes increased 18% to $16.9 billion on a record 197 deliveries.
Among the key milestones in the quarter was the start of wing assembly on the first 737 MAX.
We also completed critical design review on the 787-10 validating that the program is on plan to meet its performance cost and schedule requirements.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security reported revenue in the second quarter of $7.5 billion on the delivery of 54 aircraft 2 satellites and healthy volume in our services business.
Key contract awards included Qatar purchasing four C-17s and Australia purchasing two C-17s; an international F-15 service contract extension; and for the first time in history NASA awarded a contract for a human space flight mission to a commercial company.
In summary notwithstanding the tanker charge we delivered another quarter of strong core operating performance achieved significant program milestones captured orders totaling $18 billion and returned significant cash to our shareholders.
With that let's turn to the business environment on slide three.
Our overall view of the business environment remains positive due to improving airline profitability and healthy global air traffic.
Based on that traffic growth and strong replacement demand our new long-term commercial market outlook forecasts demand for more than 38 000 commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
That new forecast is up nearly 1 300 aircraft from last year.
Customer discussions continue to focus on placing new aircraft orders or accelerating deliveries as indicated by the favorable pace of orders in and around the Paris Air Show and yesterday's decision by FedEx to purchase 50 767 Freighters with options for 50 more.
Deferral requests continue to run well below the historical average.
Demand also remains strong for both the 777 and the 777X.
Year-to-date 777 orders and commitments totaled 44 which puts us in solid position to achieve our target of 40 orders to 60 orders a year to bridge production of the 777X.
The 777 production line is essentially sold out for 2016 more than half sold out in 2017 and has a healthy number of slots sold firm in 2018.
As we've discussed before the new 777X is scheduled to enter final assembly in the 2018 timeframe and will leverage new manufacturing technologies and processes that are being proven on the current 777.
We continue to assess the most efficient way to phase in this new technology and adapt as necessary to optimize the 777X production system and meet our customer commitments.
On the 787 program we've now delivered more than 290 airplanes including 34 787-9s.
The airplane's capabilities continue to draw strong interest from airlines around the world as noted by the order and commitment activity at the Paris Air Show.
Production of the 787 is now balanced between the 787-8s and 787-9s and this is a testament to the progress that the team is making about increasing the 787-9 up to full rate production.
In the single-aisle segment demand for our new fuel efficient 737 MAX also remains high with cumulative orders totaling more than 2 800 airplanes from 58 customers.
Development of the MAX remains on track for first delivery in 2017.
We also continue to see upward pressure on narrow-body production rates beyond the announced 52 per month in 2018.
However we remain steadfast in our financial discipline as we assess production rate changes.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security we continue to see solid support for our major programs.
Congress has been supportive of the President's fiscal year 2016 budget request which increases core Boeing production programs such as the P-8A Poseidon the Apache and Chinook helicopters.
Additionally all four defense oversight committees have added 12 F/A-18 variant aircraft to their budget proposals.
Year-over-year budget increases have also been supported by Congress for development programs such as tanker long-range strike and commercial crew though in some cases at levels below the President's requests.
Boeing's Space Launch System program has once again been recommended by the Appropriations Committee for funding increases far above the President's request.
International demand for our offerings remains strong especially in the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region.
During the second quarter international customers for Defense Space &amp; Security represented 33% of revenue and 39% of our current backlog.
The strength of our Defense and Space business stems from a portfolio that is reliable proven and affordable supported by our ongoing market-based affordability initiative that will ensure our long-term competitiveness.
Now before I turn it over to Greg let me expand for just a minute on Jim's comments earlier about our competitive position the continuity of our focus and the attitude and approach we are taking to further improve our business.
All in all Boeing is financially strong and well positioned in attractive markets.
We have the right products the right strategies and the right people to continue growing and leading our industry.
However we know that standing still is not an option for staying ahead of our competitors and for meeting our customers' expectations in a more-for-less world.
In recent years we've made large and important strides in driving productivity and first-time quality to fund our innovation and growth working as one Boeing to fully leverage the breadth and depth of our capabilities reducing long-term risk to our business and balance sheet expanding internationally and developing better leaders and better teams.
Moving forward our focus on these areas will only grow stronger.
We will sharpen our strategies to win we will accelerate our pace of progress on these and other fundamental efforts including development program performance.
And through these efforts we will succeed in profitably executing our record backlog leading through innovation investing in our people and making our second century even better than our first.
Now with that over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg? Thanks Dennis and good morning.
Let's turn to slide four and we'll discuss our second quarter results.
Second quarter revenue increased 11% to $24.5 billion driven by strong commercial airplane deliveries.
Core operating margins of 7% both reflect the impact of the $835 million pre-tax tanker charge or $536 million on an after-tax basis.
It offsets solid productivity gains on production programs and across our services businesses.
Core earnings per share for the quarter was $1.62 reflecting the $0.77 per share tanker impact that again offset the benefit of continued strong operating performance across the business.
As Dennis noted despite our disappointment in encountering the charge on the tanker program we're confident in the path forward and as we progress through the remaining functional and flight tests.
While we have a lot of work to do in front of us we have added the necessary engineering and support staff to complete the program on schedule to meet the customers' commitments.
Let's now discuss Commercial Airplanes on slide five.
For the second quarter our Commercial Airplane business increased revenue 18% to $16.9 billion on a record 197 airplane deliveries.
Operating margins of 7.1% reflect the $513 million pre-tax tanker impact at BCA and the dilutive impact of higher 787 and 747 deliveries partially offset by stronger performance on production programs.
Commercial Airplanes captured $13 billion in net orders during the second quarter and backlog remains very strong $431 billion and nearly 5 700 aircraft that equates to approximately eight years of production.
Specifically on the 787 program we continue to expect the program to be cash positive during 2015 and we still anticipate deferred production to decline shortly after we achieve the 12 per month production rate later in 2016 and there's no change to these fundamental milestones.
We continue to see progress in key operational performance indicators for the 787 program as we further implement production efficiencies while meaningfully increasing 787-9 production.
The team delivered 64 787s during the first six months of the year and made further progress on reducing unit costs.
On the 787-8 we've seen a decline in unit cost of approximately 35% now over the last 210 deliveries.
And furthermore 787-9 unit costs declined approximately 30% over the first 34 aircraft delivered.
In line with our expectations 787 deferred production increased $790 million to a $27.7 billion in the second quarter.
As we previously discussed we continue to anticipate 787 deferred production to grow at a similar level next quarter before a healthy decline in growth in the fourth quarter.
More work to do here but we remain focused on the solid day-to-day execution and risk reduction while improving the long-term productivity and cash flow going forward.
We continue to manage the smooth introduction and the ramp-up of the 787-9 prepare for the 12 per month rate and introducing the 787-10 while again driving efficiencies across all aspects of the program.
Let's now turn to Defense Space &amp; Security results on slide six.
Second quarter revenue in our Defense business was $7.5 billion and operating margins were 7.2% as the $322 million pre-tax tanker charge at BDS offset strong performance on production programs and favorable delivery mix.
Boeing Military Aircraft's second quarter revenue was $3.5 billion due to timing of deliveries and operating margins of 3.5% in the quarter again reflecting the tanker impact.
Beyond the tanker program BMA captured productivity improvements on a number of key production programs.
In addition the BMA segment significantly retired risk during the quarter on the C-17 program by capturing contracts for six aircraft.
We now have one more aircraft to sell and we continue to see strong interest in that final aircraft for delivery.
Network &amp; Space Systems revenue was $1.9 billion and the segment generated operating margins of 7.8%.
Global Services &amp; Support revenue was $2.1 billion and operating margins increased to 12.8% on favorable program mix and performance.
Defense Space &amp; Security reported a solid backlog of $58 billion with 39% of our current backlog representing customers of outside the United States.
Let's move to cash flow now on the next slide.
Operating cash flow for the second quarter was strong $3.3 billion driven by higher volumes and solid operating performance across the company.
With regards to capital deployment as Dennis mentioned we paid $625 million in dividends and repurchased 14 million shares for $2 billion in the second quarter as we continue to deliver on our commitment of returning cash to shareholders.
Furthermore this reflects our ongoing confidence in the long-term outlook for the business.
We anticipate completing the remainder $7.5 billion repurchase authorization over the next two years.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investment to support future growth remains top priorities for us.
Moving now to cash and debt balances on slide eight.
We ended the quarter with $9.6 billion of cash and marketable securities and our cash balance continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Turning now to slide nine and we'll discuss our outlook for 2015.
We are reaffirming our 2015 guidance for revenue deliveries and cash flow and updating the margin and core EPS guidance to account for the tanker charge that offsets improved productivity.
Our cash flow guidance for 2015 remains unchanged at greater than $9 billion as the cash impact in the tanker program is offset by improved cash performance across the company.
Our 2015 guidance for Commercial Airplane operating margin is now 9% reflecting the tanker impact and Defense Space &amp; Security operating margin guidance is now 9.5%.
That is more than offset the improved performance at BMA and GS&amp;S.
Core earnings per share guidance is now between $7.70 and $7.90 from $8.20 and $8.40 reflecting the $0.77 tanker charge and $0.27 benefit from improved performance.
In summary we generated solid revenue growth delivered on our backlog generated significant cash flow and meaningfully returned cash to shareholders.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Dennis for some closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Greg.
With the strong first half behind us we remain focused on disciplined execution quality and productivity improvements and meeting customer commitments.
Our priorities going forward are clear and consistent.
The profitable ramp-up in commercial airplane production delivering on our development programs with an emphasis on tanker execution and our new commercial product line driving productivity and performance throughout the enterprise to fund our investments in innovation talent and technology continuing to strengthen our Defense and Space business and importantly providing increasing value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Now we'd be happy to take your questions.
Our first question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Welcome Dennis.
And congratulations Jim on your retirement.
I hope this doesn't mean you're going to hang up your skates for the Pond Hockey League as well.
(22:10).
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a clarification and a question.
Greg the comment you made on the stronger performance on production programs I just wanted to clarify if that was a result of any margin change on those programs? And then Dennis just from a high level I mean I know it's been a lengthy transition and you've been with the company for a long time but these events always cause some reflection on where the company can and will go.
And I think if you could just expand on the comments you made before in terms of now seeing where the company's been over the last couple of years and the lessons learned when you look out over the next three years to five years what do you see is the biggest opportunities and risks that the company will face? And more specifically how are you thinking about long-term margin potential the need for major new investments programmatic risks? Any more granular details you can provide on how you're thinking about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Greg you want to answer the question first? Yeah sure.
We had good performance across the board on margins Carter.
We had a little bit of impact on escalation on the commercial programs but overall I'd say across the board and you saw it in the results today good performance across all areas of the portfolio.
Having said that there's a lot of productivity initiatives still in place and that continues to be a big focus for the teams on all production and our services business.
So we've still got some things to do that we want to try to capture going forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and that'll continue to be a priority.
And Carter to your broader higher level question it's frankly been a privilege for me to work side-by-side with Jim for about the last year and a half with him and the rest of the team Greg Ray and the whole Boeing team.
So I've got a lot of confidence in the foundation that we've put in place.
And as we noted today we have a very strong company.
We're well-positioned in our markets.
We have a strong financial foundation.
We've got the right productivity machine in place.
We've got the right strategy in place.
So the theme you'll be hearing from me and the team is one of strategic consistency.
We like the path we're on the direction we're headed.
There are a few areas where we've continued to hone our strategy sharpen it and accelerate our actions.
I think if I look at big opportunities and at risks certainly going forward our opportunity to execute on our commercial aircraft backlog and to do that profitably and return cash to shareholders and fund our future innovation that is the single biggest opportunity we have.
Having seven years of backlog and the opportunity to execute that well that will be a clear focus for us.
On the risks side certainly we want to continue to pay attention to delivering on our development programs.
We're seeing steady improvement overall in terms of our ability to deliver on cost and schedule.
I think tanker is a good reminder to us to continue to hone that effort.
But we are on the right path to continue to deliver innovation to the marketplace and to do it in a repeatable financially disciplined way.
And if I look out a little farther beyond that as we think about how we're going to invest that capital as you noted our cash opportunity in terms of executing our backlog also creates opportunity to invest in future innovation.
And successfully bringing those new commercial aircraft to the marketplace is very important to us with the MAX 787-10 and the 777X and we feel very confident in all of those development activities.
We're also investing in a few future franchises on the Defense side including long-range strike again good solid opportunities for us.
And if we look at uses of cash going forward our number one priority remains at disciplined investment and innovation for the future.
Secondly returning cash to shareholders as you've seen through both the stock repurchase and through dividends.
And then thirdly where it makes sense bolt-on acquisitions but our fundamental investment priority for the future is in organic investment machine.
We have a very strong position here and we plan to leverage that.
Our next question is from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And first Jim just want to say it's been great working with you over the years and just want to wish you all the best in your next steps.
Thanks Doug.
Appreciate the comment.
And something you may not miss is 787 deferred production discussion but I want to just get into that.
But specifically when you look at the 787 over the course of this year you've said in the past that by the end of this year we should see cash positive on the 787 just by the end of the year not for the whole year.
I want to confirm that's still the case.
But also as you see the model shift towards the 787-9 787-9 should ultimately be we would think considerably more profitable than the 787-8.
So as you see these two airplanes mature the 787-8 and the 787-9 can you give us a sense of the relative profitability of these two models longer-term? And when would we likely see the 787-9 cross over in terms of becoming more profitable than the 787-8? Yeah I mean to answer your first question Doug no change on the outlook for 787 cash so we do expect that to be positive later this year and the team's tracking well to that.
On 787-9 I mean certainly as I indicated the team has done a very nice job coming down that learning curve.
If you think about the numbers I talked to you about 30% over 34 deliveries.
It gives you really good sense of how well that's being incorporated.
But you remember we made some investments upfront to ensure we had that smooth introduction.
At the same time lessons learned after 787-8 and getting those into 787-9 so the producibility of the 787-9 has definitely improved.
So over time that favorable mix will work in our favor.
I think I've mentioned that half of our deliveries this year will be 787-9s.
And I would tell you just from my time at the company that is the smoothest introduction of a derivative on top of the all-time high production rate on a wide-body program.
So again I think there's more opportunity for us going forward.
We got the enterprise focused on that and whether that's on the shop floor support or across the supply chain that remains a top priority for us.
So made good progress.
But as you know we still got a lot of work to do going forward.
But I think we got the right people focused.
We got a lot of projects.
We're working our way through and ultimately you got to get those projects to hit the production system.
And that's what we're trying to do.
Get those matured get them implemented implement them in a fashion where you don't disrupt the production system and capture the benefit as the result of that.
But can you give us a sense of when the 787-9 profitability will sort of be there? In a mature sense when we should find that as a more profitable airplane? Yeah I mean I think as we get into next year and we'll have – keep coming down that learning curve we'll see higher levels of profitability on the 787-9.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good luck Jim.
Although I don't think you're going away any time soon.
And Dennis it will be fun to work with you.
Thanks Howard.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Howard.
There's sort of two questions.
One is on the KC-46.
My understanding is you have price options on the seven and 12 tankers.
So how did you think about managing the risk so that when you exercise those contracts or when Air Force exercises those contracts we don't see a follow on charge? And then second if I back out what appears to be the revenues associated with the 787 and 747 it would seem that there was a little deterioration in the margins on the mature aircraft.
Could you address that as well please? Sure.
Maybe I'll (31:03) and then I'll pass it back over to Dennis on KC-46.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Slightly Howard as I said we had some little bit of additional escalation with oil deteriorating slightly.
But again just on those particular production but very very slight.
And again good solid performance I'd say across the board and you're seeing that in the margins both the BDS and BCA.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Howard on your question regarding tanker.
That's one of the reasons that we're investing now during the development program to refine the production system and ensure we're ready to ramp into the low rate initial production.
There was priced options that you mentioned are part of the low rate initial production program.
And I think as you're aware we've already got the first two aircraft loaded into the production line system in our commercial factory in Everett.
And our ability to integrate that into the full commercial line is one of the big ways that we've reduced risk on the program overall.
And some of the charge that we've taken in this quarter is the fact that we are having to retro-fit a couple of those early aircraft that are in early build stages.
But that allows us to get into a mature position now so again we have high confidence in the production program.
We've got Ray and our BCA team very much engaged on ensuring we're doing the right things now to drive profitability in the production system for the long run.
So we'll complete that work here during the development phase.
We're confident that as we get into low rate initial production and then full production this program will have a lot of financial value both for the company and for our shareholders.
Thank you both gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
Next we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the cash flow just given this cash outflow that you're going to get for the tanker program.
Can you just talk about what is the offset? I know you said operations.
Is it C-17 is it taxes is it BCA is it Defense? And where do you still see the opportunity to potentially drive higher even during this year? I'd say Sam it really was across the operations.
It's not tax related.
It's just purely operational performance.
Both BDS and BCA that is A drove the solid performance in the quarter so not timing just pure core performance.
And that's what's going to offset the impact on tanker through the balance of the year.
And we're going to obviously continue to focus on being efficient on all uses of working capital.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sam just to add on to Greg's point here I think this just represents fundamentally how we're driving the business.
This is part of our core operating engine our focus on disciplined cash management all of the levers that are inside the business.
We are committed to that for the long run and I think that's reflected in the guidance that you see and our confidence for long-term year-over-year cash growth.
But you didn't change the number of C-17 deliveries.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Let me add my congrats to Jim and Dennis on the post changes.
Thanks Noah.
Appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Greg a question on working capital change and specifically advances and their impact on cash flow.
It looks like if I strip out what's happening with 787 deferred and I'm just looking at total working capital change other than that it's been about a third of total company free cash excluding deferred the last kind of three years to five years or so.
Should I be reverting that back to zero over time or can that be sustainably greater than zero for a long time because it's a growth industry? And then specifically on advances specifically given that's kind of a big part of that has there been any strategic change with how and when the company takes advances whether it's a competitive advantage driver or any other reason just because that's been such a big piece? Yeah there's no fundamental changes to how we handle advances in our contracts.
I think as I've said to you before as you think about just purely the production rate increases that are going to take place over time and how that advanced stream is completely associated with that you're going to continue to see advances grow going forward as we increase production rates and then ultimately increase deliveries so that profile will continue.
Now it won't be at the same growth rate that it's been because we don't have 18 rate breaks in front of us that we've just completed.
We've got about five.
So you'll still see a healthy increase in advances going forward.
And then ultimately as you know the bulk of the cash coming on delivery so that's where you'll see it coming from.
In the quarter that is core cash.
That is just pure core cash performance across the business.
It's not timing.
It's not driven by some advances from one quarter to the next and it's purely associated with performance across again multiple programs in the portfolio.
I mean if I look over a – forget about the quarter if I look over a very long period of time the last half a decade decade advances have grown at a pretty significantly faster rate than deliveries and BCA revenue.
How do I square why that's happened and does it need to mean revert at any point? Well I mean – look you've got two sides of the business obviously.
You got BDS where you've got milestone payments associated with major contracts as I've talked about.
Those vary quarter-to-quarter year-to-year dramatically.
And then the advances are just purely the growth.
So if you think about the backlog and as you take that order and as you get closer to that airplane delivering you're getting advances associated with that.
I mean that's fundamental but again think about the backlog we have today and then think about delivering on that backlog.
There's a complete correlation to cash flow.
And so I'd say no fundamental change in that model as you look back or frankly as you look forward.
Okay.
Okay? All right.
Thanks for the help.
You're welcome.
And next we go to George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good luck Jim and congratulations Dennis.
Thank you George.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Hi George.
I question Greg if I try and look at the deferred it was $26 million a plane this quarter the same as Q1.
I'm assuming it stayed flat because you had more 787-9 deliveries this quarter or in the first quarter? Could you just give us at least some quantitative measures as to how much above the $26 million the 787-9 might be at this point and how much below the 787-8 might be? And then one for Dennis any reason to increase two 767 production rate? I know you're going up to two but any need to go a little further with the FedEx order? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Can you go first? Yeah on the deferred Howard (sic) [George] you're right.
I mean certainly mix comes into play here.
But as I said to you I mean we're focused on unit cost performance.
So unit-by-unit are we improving? What are the opportunities? How do we capture those opportunities? And as I said the 787-8 down 35% over the last – over 200 deliveries and 787-9 down 30%.
So to your point mix comes into play here.
But we only have 34 787-9s delivered.
So as 787-9 becomes more of that portfolio on the deliveries and we continue to come down that learning curve we'll see more benefit as associated with that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And George on the 767 side we'll treat future rate considerations like we do in all of our production lines.
It's a very disciplined evaluation process.
As you said we've already planned to go up from 1.5 a month to two a month next year.
That'll position us well for the tanker production program as I noted earlier.
The fact that we see the order strength here especially with the FedEx order just announced yesterday.
By the way that 50 plus 50 is the largest single order in the history of the 767 program.
So that gives you some sense of the strength and longevity of that line.
As we look at future demand we get into full rate production on the tanker program.
We have a lot of confidence in that mature 767 production line.
And any changes that we might consider beyond two a month again we'll go through that normal very financially disciplined assessment.
Right now we're very focused on just ramping up successfully to two a month.
That will position us for what we need to do for both tanker and our FedEx customer and we'll use our disciplined process beyond that.
Okay.
Thanks.
And next we go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning and congratulations to the role changers.
First a clarification on the inventory.
It looks like there was about a $1 billion liquidation of commercial spare parts and used aircrafts from the disclosures on the website.
But the bigger question for me is on the book-to-bill.
You've been targeting I think full year around one.
I'm curious if you still have confidence in that and the pathway to get to the 1.2 implied in the second half? Thanks.
Yeah the inventory is driven by C-17.
It's been the other category there Myles.
So it's the liquidation on the C-17s as we firmed up those contracts and got advances associated with that.
That moves into that category of long-term contracts in progress.
So you'll see that shift there.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
That's all that's going on there.
I'll let Dennis address the book-to-bill.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Myles our outlook on book-to-bill hasn't changed.
We still anticipate roughly a book-to-bill of one by year-end.
Obviously timing plays into that but we're continuing to see strong fundamental order strength.
We're pleased with the amount of activity we saw in and around the Paris Air Show.
We're continuing to see interest in both narrow-bodies and wide-bodies.
And the fundamental marketplace still looks strong.
Traffic growth trends are good.
Cargo is returning a bit and we're waiting to see that play out in terms of demand.
Replacement value continues to be attractive to our customers.
And we're not seeing any changes in the demand cycle or signals in the marketplace.
So steady as she goes on our book-to-bill expectations.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And aside from that feathering dynamic on the 777 when is the earliest that you'd have to think about bringing the rates down more on a demand basis? So the key thing there on the bridge two things Myles.
One is building the 777 order book and we're pleased with the progress this year.
As we said we needed to achieve about 40 to 60 orders a year to build that bridge and we're at 44 firm and commitments so far this year.
So continuing to see strong demand signals there.
2016 is essentially sold-out now; 2017 more than half sold-out so progress there.
We're beginning to fill the 2018 pipeline well also.
Several campaigns still underway.
So our ability to build the bridge one we continue to be confident there.
In terms of the transition this is where we'll be feathering in the new production system.
As you know that'll start hitting the production system around the 2018 timeframe in terms of long-lead implementation for 2020 deliveries on the 777X.
So specific decisions around that will be more in the next year timeframe.
But to the key thing we're doing now is de-risking that transition by pulling some of the technology and some of the automation forward into the 777 line things like the Fuselage Upright Build for example and that's allowing us to de-risk the production system.
And we'll continue to look for ways to make sure that feathering in is done most effectively and efficiently.
We know how to do this.
We've built bridges on our other production lines.
We're doing the same thing on the NG to MAX transition in the 737 line.
So we know how to do these transitions with discipline.
And we'll make sure it's done as efficiently as we can.
We'll get more into details as we get into next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question's from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much and congratulations to Jim.
So quick question.
You had very good 787 deliveries in the quarter.
And I guess one of the blogs is talking about potential for a big Q3.
What is the chance that you could exceed your bogie of 125 for the year? And relatedly what kind of impact do we see potentially on cash flow? Because you had very strong Q2 cash flow with essentially very little increase in progress and advances.
You still have some deposits to come on the C-17 orders you received.
So it would look like on paper as if you should easily come in well above your cash flow guide.
Thanks.
Thanks Cai.
On deliveries certainly we expect the back half to be healthy on 787 deliveries.
But as you know quarter-to-quarter Cai just purely from customer ability to take the aircraft I mean that moves around a little bit.
But we're comfortable about where we are on our guide.
If we have the opportunity to change that we'll do that.
But I'd say we're well on track to hit that our objective on about 120.
So I think we're in pretty good shape there.
But again the back half will be important for us.
On Q3 cash I mean as you know Cai again there's a lot of moving pieces in here.
But we expect solid performance.
We do have some milestone payments and progress payments that will come in in 3Q as well.
So we're tracking those and trying to capture those in the third quarter.
But again a lot of moving pieces quarter-to-quarter.
We're comfortable about where we are now with our guidance.
And we'll see where we end up at the end of Q3 and go from there.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And we'll go to Jason Gursky with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning and congratulations to both Jim and Dennis as well from me.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I just want to spend if you don't mind a few more minutes on 777 program talked about the timing on a decision sometime next year which is great.
Helpful for us all.
I think it would be helpful as well to look a little bit beyond next year.
And perhaps just give us an update on how you're going to manage through this process with regard to inventory that's going to get built on the 777X program for production that may get built on that program.
And just perhaps give us some guidance on when we should expect you to begin communicating that kind of stuff to us and if there are some historical examples that you can point to so that we can begin really gauging the potential impacts on expenses and cash flows as the 777X begin to feather in.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jason let me start on that one.
Then Greg I'll flip it over to you for some additional comment.
Again when we look at that overall transition Jason it's important for us to first note that the market demand for the 777 remains very strong.
So our ability to confidently build the bridge and to plan on that is part of the equation here.
The bridge itself and the transition to the 777X the key there is to flow it efficiently into the production system and into our supply chain.
So long lead planning is already underway.
As I said we'll make some additional decisions next year on exactly how we'll implement that and feather it into the production system.
But we do this across the entire depth of our supply chain.
Any technologies or investments that we can pull forward and pre-implement on the 777 line as I said we're doing with some of the automation technology further de-risks it for 777X and also allows us to drive additional profitability on the current 777 line.
And that's part of how we're continuing to pay for the implementation if you will is by driving productivity on the base programs to fuel our future innovation and allow us to put automation into the production line.
That cycle is one that we're going through right now.
We expect the overall R&amp;D and capital profile for 777X to remain stable.
We've guided you to about $3.5 billion of total R&amp;D spend this year.
That remains confidently in place.
Our 2016 overall expenditures will be similar to that.
We'll see some incremental growth in 777X but roll off in some of the other development programs.
So it's a very disciplined process as I said one that we understand how to do and rolling it efficiently so that we can continue to drive profitability while we make the transition is fundamental to the equation.
We've done it previously on our other rate ramp-ups.
We're doing it now on the 737 line as you can see in the results and we expect to use that same disciplined process on 777.
Greg anything you want to add? Yeah I mean just as you think about the cash flow going forward our comments about going into next year year-over-year growth and continued growth beyond assumes what you described as a transition on the 777 to 777X timeframe.
That's like 2018 2019 timeframe as Dennis indicated.
Now we step back keep in mind during that timeframe we've got the 787 going up in rate and as well as obviously we got to continue down this learning curve on 787.
But if you think about out into that timeframe we should be in a lot better shape on that program as well.
So there is more offsets than any short-term I'd say impact as related to this transition on 777 to 777X.
Now obviously that is a key franchise for us.
So having that short-term transition period is very minimal considering the benefit that program both of those programs bring to bottom line of The Boeing Company.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
The next question's from David Strauss with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Congratulations Jim.
Thank you David.
Greg the deferred step down that you're expecting in Q4 can you just talk about exactly what's driving that? Is there some sort of supplier step down in pricing that you're expecting? But just what's driving that? Thanks.
Yeah no I think there's mix involved and continued productivity in our operations combined with some pricing step downs out of the supply chain.
So it's really a combination of things David.
At the same time we're continuing to make those investments I talked to you about on improving the overall reliability and improving the long-term productivity and profitability of the program.
So a lot of moving pieces in there but all of those fundamentally have an impact in that step down going forward.
We've got good plans in place in order to do that so the team's focused on capturing those and coming down the curve.
And then one quick follow up on 747 the step down to one a month can you talk about where you guys stand from on a forward loss standpoint how this might impact that? Thanks.
Yeah That's already been incorporated so there's no forward losses associated with that.
Again I think that is just again a focus on productivity inside and outside the complete supply chain in order to offset any of that pressure as a result of that rate coming down.
The team was able to do that and hold the program profitability through that rate transition.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And that will be from Seth Seifman with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks very much for taking the question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning and congratulations to Jim and Dennis.
One more question on working capital and just thinking out over the next couple of years.
You guys have done a very strong job through all the rate increases we've had over the past three years to four years in terms of managing physical inventory build.
How do we think of that as a component of working capital as we move to 2016 2017 2018 of rate increases on the 737 and the 787? Yeah Seth I guess I would just put it in the category of day-to-day business just day-to-day business solid execution across the board.
I wouldn't differentiate that any different than trying to drive productivity in the factory or getting additional flow time.
It's all key measures on our programs and objectives that we have and opportunities we're trying to capture.
So again it remains just a key element of how we're running the business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Seth I'll just reinforce that this is fundamentally how we are doing business and how we'll continue to do it.
We understand the linkage between that productivity machine cash machine and our ability to return value to shareholders and invest for the future.
So it's fundamental to our business model and we remain committed to it.
Great.
Thank you.
That complete the analyst question-and-answer session.
I'll now return you to The Boeing Company for interjectory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We'll continue with the questions for our speakers this morning.
If you have any questions following this part of the session please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question and as we're pressed for time we ask that you limit everybody to one question please.
And we'll go to Jon Ostrower with The Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Jon.
Two parter.
First one is for Jim.
Jim you told Aviation Week in May that you had a high degree of confidence that another tanker charge wasn't coming.
Just curious where your confidence was coming from at that point and when did you guys become aware of the fuel system issues and how was the process of this arriving on your desk? The second continuing on the tanker theme is thinking about the pace of rework on the fuel system and looking at the history of 787 and what happened with F-35 over at Lockheed is it wise to push headlong into production when you're not totally clear on the pace of changes ahead of KC-46A flight tests? And how are you guys going to kind of avoid manage a pile-up of post-production modification like you had on 787? And ultimately what you did last week is that the last of the charges? Jon as you know we evaluate our position every quarter.
I think the – we said back in that specific interview you're talking about I never made a categorical statement.
I said we're always reviewing it and when we see issues we deal with them.
And the facts were that in the second quarter as we tested out the fuel system and as we got into flight tests we began to see issues that you can only see when you integrate fuel system into an airplane.
And those are the issues we're dealing with now.
And so Dennis do you have any other comments? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'll just add on Jon to the second part of your question.
The key here is the work to go is well understood.
There's no technology or invention that has to be accomplished.
As Jim said this is the nature of what came out of some final ground and flight testing on certifying the integrated fuel system.
This is the last major system to be qualified under the development program.
So while we're disappointed in the charge it reflects the ripple effect that is the last system.
As a result there's no retrofit into the aircraft that are in the line already.
That said we have our arms around this.
We understand the work that has to be done.
We have found a way to execute that work and keep the program on schedule for our customer and we're confident that we're going to do that.
So now it's about executing the work ahead of us and delivering those first 18 tankers by 2017.
And part of the message here is we have invested in system integration labs that did allow us to find some of these issues now rather than later in flight tests.
And while disappointed in taking the charge now we're doing the right thing and we remain committed to meeting our customers' schedule.
Our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Hi all.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi.
Quick Ex-Im related question.
I'm just wondering what the prospects are for reauthorization over the next few months and the sales impact that you see beyond 2015 if that doesn't occur.
A – [07JL49-E Dennis Muilenburg]&gt;: Julie let me give you the short answer first on the prospects here.
We know that's a very active discussion on the Hill right now.
As you know the Senate was in the midst of discussing the highway bill yesterday and the potential of Ex-Im being included Ex-Im reauthorization being included as part of that bill.
We know it has the attention of both the House and the Senate right now.
We remain optimistic that we'll ultimately see reauthorization.
But we also recognize that there's a political risk to that.
So we're being mindful of that and staying properly engaged in the process.
I will say from a company perspective as we said before this is not something that creates near-term financial risk for Boeing.
There are multiple commercial credit sources available today that the market is sound there.
We have about 15% of our customers that use Ex-Im financing as backstop financing but in the current financing market that doesn't create risk for us.
This is about long-term global competitiveness.
And that's why we're so forceful on this topic that it's important Ex-Im be reauthorized.
It's about allowing U.S.
industry to be globally competitive.
It's about American manufacturing jobs.
It's the right thing for the country to do.
And we're going to continue to advocate on behalf of U.S.
manufacturing jobs.
Our next question is from Al Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Can you hear me okay? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Great.
You guys have stressed continuity and the transition to CEO for Dennis as CEO which raises the question.
Other than the lower age is there some ambition or vision or goals that you bring to the table that sets Boeing apart for the next 100 years? Without moonshots what does Boeing do to be great? Merely are you guys going to merely execute on production or is there a bigger vision? Can you talk a little about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Al I'll talk about it a bit here.
Just to give you prospective as we're rounding out our first century here we do have a great company.
It's the leader in aerospace today.
And the advancement that the company's made over the last 10 years under Jim's leadership has been very significant.
And we do have a very strong market position today.
We've created the right strategy.
Jim Ray Greg myself the whole team we've been deeply involved in that strategy.
So it's something we understand and we're committed to.
It is a big bold strategy one that is a growing business strategy.
We've invested in our Commercial Airplane product line for the future.
You can see that reflected in our backlog and you can see it reflected in the new innovation that we're bringing to the market.
So I would offer that that reflects a bold vision for the future and one that will grow and allow our company to beat the competition.
We continue to look for opportunities to invest in the future on the Defense and Space side of our business as well.
And you can see the number of newer products that we've brought to the market there.
So we do plan to continue a path of strategic consistency but as I said we also sharpen and accelerate where we need to.
And I think this is about taking a company that's very good today and making it even better.
And fundamental to business for 100 years we've led with innovation disciplined innovation.
And that's part of how we'll continue forward.
Innovation is fundamental to our mission as a company.
And bringing disciplined innovation to the market for long-term growth continues to be our strategy.
And next we go to Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I want a clarification something on tanker.
Earlier this year Boeing and the U.S.
Air Force negotiated a revision to the tanker schedule.
It didn't change the end target of 2018 deliveries but it did shift around the timing of first flight the timing of the decision on LRIP and so on.
Now that was earlier this year.
And the fuel system problem was discovered.
I saw it in the last six weeks since Jim's interview with Aviation Week.
So my question is is that latest problem factored into that revision of the schedule or is there possibly more revision to the schedule now needed because of this new problem? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Dominic let me take that one.
Yeah in addition to what we announced previously these intermediate program level milestones about exact flight dates and sequencing of flight tests those are things that we will with the customer refine to allow us to most efficiently complete the program.
As we said we still plan to fly the first full-up tanker which is aircraft number two later this summer.
We remain on track to do that.
We have re-sequenced some of the downstream flight test phasing again in the name of efficiency.
All of that has been done to hold the delivery schedule at the end.
And if as you talked to our Air Force customer the most important thing to them is for us to deliver those first 18 aircraft by 2017.
We remain resolute and committed to meeting that schedule.
Incorporating the latest learnings on the integrated fuel system.
We've rolled that into our planning.
And while we may move some of these intermediate program level milestones we remain committed to the overarching milestone of delivering on our customer commitment.
And that's all part of what we've announced with the 2Q charge.
Operator we have time for one last question please.
That will be from Steve Wilhelm with the Puget Sound's Business Journal.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi gentlemen.
Congratulations for your transition.
There's a question for Dennis.
When I've talked to people on the factory floor there's still a lot of rough feelings from the vote in 2014.
And I just wondered as you move ahead as CEO what is your relationship going to be with union people how do you hold that and look at that? And in particular what are you thinking about the possibility of unionization in South Carolina and will Boeing be pushing back as actively as it has been? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Steve.
First of all I think it's important to emphasize the fact that we understand how important our people are to our business.
We invest in our people.
I have a great deal of respect for our team and the work they do every day building the best airplanes in the world.
I think as you may know I had a chance to start with Boeing about 30 years ago in Puget Sound.
So I have a very deep appreciation for our workforce there as well.
And during the first couple of weeks in my new role here I've had the chance to get out on the factory floor as well and continue the dialogue with our team.
So this idea of mutual respect and partnership and investing in our people is very important to me and will continue to be important.
We know this is a long-term business that demands those kind of good partnerships and relationships and I expect to emphasize that going forward.
As far as Charleston goes we're equally pleased with the progress we're seeing there.
Our team there is performing and performing well.
Our business in Charleston is growing as a result.
We're looking forward to the 787-10 being built there.
And the investments we've made in Charleston are reflective of the quality of our workforce there.
And we treat that management to workforce relationship as very important and we'll continue to invest in that relationship as well.
And going back to Puget Sound I think you can also see the fact we're investing there for future.
Our new composite wing factory in Everett I think is a good example.
So the employee relationships are important investing in our people is important and our ability to do work at multiple sites is important.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
Thank you for standing by.
Good day everyone and welcome to The Boeing Company's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The management discussion and slide presentation plus the analyst and media question-and-answer sessions are being broadcast live over the Internet.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'm turning the call over to Mr.
Troy Lahr Vice President of Investor Relations for The Boeing Company.
Mr.
Lahr please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Boeing's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
I'm Troy Lahr and with me today is Dennis Muilenburg Boeing's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith Boeing's Chief Financial Officer.
After management comments we'll take your questions.
In fairness to others on the call we ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
We have provided detailed financial information in today's press release and you can follow the broadcast and presentation through our website at boeing.com.
Before we begin I need to remind you that any projections and goals in our discussions today are likely to involve risk which is detailed in our news release various SEC filings and the forward-looking statement disclaimer in the presentation.
In addition we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dennis.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Troy and good morning.
I'll start with some comments on the quarter and our business environment.
After that Greg will walk you through details of our financial results and outlook.
With that let's move to slide two.
Boeing delivered strong third quarter operating performance with 9% revenue growth 10.2% core operating margins 18% growth in core earnings per share and operating cash flow of $2.9 billion.
Given our operating performance in the quarter we're raising 2015 guidance for revenue core EPS and operating cash flow.
This performance and confidence in our long-term outlook continues to support our commitment to return cash to shareholders while also making strategic investments to grow our business.
Year-to-date we have returned nearly $8 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
This remains a priority under our balanced cash deployment strategy.
Revenue at Boeing Commercial Airplanes increased 10% on record deliveries of our industry-leading product family.
During the quarter we delivered our 325th 787.
We began final assembly and achieved power on for the 737 MAX completed firm configuration on the 777X and successfully concluded final testing and began implementing the advanced automated fuselage production technology on the 777 line which will improve safety quality and flow time and ensure a smooth transition to the 777X.
Boeing Defense Space &amp; Security grew its top line by 6% on higher revenue at Boeing Military Aircraft and Network &amp; Space Systems.
Key contract awards during the quarter included an order from India for 22 Apache attack helicopters and 15 Chinook heavy-lift helicopters and a contract from Japan for five V-22 tiltrotor aircraft.
We also received a contract from the U.S.
Navy for 13 additional P-8A Poseidon aircraft.
Significant defense program milestones included delivery of the first two of 12 EA-18 Growlers to the Royal Australian Air Force and the start of flight testing of the first full-up KC-46A aerial refueling tanker.
During the last few weeks we have successfully deployed the tanker's refueling boom and its centerline and wing refueling drogue systems multiple times over a broad range of flight conditions.
While more work remains ahead these early accomplishments represent significant risk reduction and real progress on the flight test program.
In summary we had another strong quarter of operating performance and cash generation.
With that let's turn to the business environment on slide three.
The commercial airplane business environment generally remains healthy driven by improving airline profitability solid air passenger traffic and meaningful replacement demand.
Air cargo traffic remains a watch item for us as the gradual market recovery continues amid modest overall global economic growth rates.
Airplane order activity and customer discussions are continuing at a moderated but historically healthy pace.
Deferral requests and cancellations remain well below the historical average.
In the Single Aisle segment demand for our new fuel-efficient 737 MAX remains high with cumulative orders totaling nearly 2 900 airplanes from 58 customers.
Given the strong market demand we continue to see upward pressure on narrow body production rates beyond the announced 52 per month in 2018.
However we remain steadfast in our financial discipline as we assess the market demand for further production rate changes.
During the third quarter we made the decision to increase the 767 production rate to 2.5 per month starting in 2017 driven by ongoing strong demand for the 767 freighter on top of the existing planned tanker production base.
This is a testament to the compelling value proposition that airplane brings to the market.
Demand also remains strong for the 777X with a backlog of 306 aircraft from six customers.
On the 777 we have 44 orders and commitments year-to-date including the two 777-300ERs announced last week for EVA Airways.
Our 777 backlog stands at 235 aircraft with production for 2016 essentially sold out and 2017 production more than half sold.
With firm configuration of the 777X complete and our manufacturing advancements taking hold we are now working to finalize the production plan to phase in this new technology.
We will also continue to assess 777 supply and demand to maximize airplane profitability over the transition period.
On the 787 program EVA's decision last week to also purchase up to 24 787-10s is evidence of continued strong market demand for the Dreamliner.
The 787's backlog of nearly 800 orders fully supports our planned production rate increases to 12 per month in 2016 and 14 per month later this decade.
We have now delivered more than 330 787s including more than 50 Dash-9s.
Turning to Defense Space &amp; Security we continue to see solid support for our major programs.
Congress has been supportive of the President's fiscal year 2016 DoD and NASA budget request increases to core Boeing programs including the P8-A Poseidon the F-18 Super Hornet Apache and Chinook helicopters and the NASA's Space Launch System.
International demand for our offerings remains strong particularly in the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region.
During the third quarter international customers for Defense Space &amp; Security represented 35% of revenue and 40% of our current backlog.
The strength of our Defense and Space business stems from our investments in technology and innovation that have established a portfolio of reliable proven and affordable products and services.
We continue to invest in organic growth areas that are priorities for our customers such as commercial derivatives space unmanned systems intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance and the critical few future franchise programs like Long Range Strike and the T-X trainer.
Teams throughout our company also continue to ensure our long-term competitiveness by driving further safety quality and productivity gains to improve program profitability and fund investment in future growth.
In summary our team is executing on our business strategy by growing revenues generating solid operating performance and capturing strategic new business.
Now over to Greg for our financial results and our updated guidance.
Greg? Thanks Dennis.
Good morning everybody.
Let's turn to slide four and we'll discuss our third quarter results.
Third quarter revenue increased 9% to $25.8 billion driven by record commercial airplane deliveries.
Core operating margins of 10.2% reflect solid execution across both businesses.
Core earnings per share for the quarter increased 18% to $2.52 reflecting again continued strong core operating performance on production programs and within our services businesses.
Let's now discuss Commercial Airplanes on slide five.
For the third quarter Boeing Commercial Airplanes' revenue increased 10% to $17.7 billion on a record 199 airplane deliveries.
BCA operating margin of 10% reflects strong execution offset by the impact of higher planned R&amp;D spending and increased 787 deliveries.
Commercial Airplanes captured $13 billion of net orders during the third quarter and backlog remains very strong at $426 billion and nearly 5 700 aircraft equating to more than seven years of production.
Specifically on the 787 we continue to expect the program to be cash positive in the fourth quarter and we still anticipate deferred production to decline shortly after we achieve the 12 per month production rate later in 2016.
No change to these fundamental milestones.
We continue to see progress in the key operational performance indicators for the 787 program as we implement additional production efficiencies while meaningfully increasing 787-9 production.
As planned the 787-9 production rate and deliveries are now outpacing 787-8.
This is a testament to the team's detailed advanced planning and day-to-day execution to ensure smooth transition and ramp-up of the 787-9.
On the 787-8 we have continued to make progress on unit cost reduction where we've now seen a decline of approximately 40% over the last 230 deliveries.
We've also made further progress on the 787-9 where we now have had more than 30% cost reduction over the first 50 deliveries.
Driven by continued cost reductions a healthy mix of Dash-9s and a benefit of favorable timing on quarterly spending 787 deferred production increased $577 million to now a balance of $28.3 billion in the third quarter.
We continue to anticipate 787 deferred production growth to further decline in the fourth quarter.
We still have work ahead of us on the 787 as we remain focused on the solid day-to-day execution and risk mitigation while improving the long-term productivity and cash flow going forward.
We will continue to manage the smooth ramp-up of the 787-9 production prepare for the 12 per month introduction and introduce the Dash-10 while again driving efficiencies across all aspects of the program.
Let's now turn to slide six to discuss Defense Space &amp; Security results.
BDS reported strong results in the quarter with revenue increasing 6% to $8.4 billion and operating margins of 12.2% on strong performance and a favorable delivery mix.
Boeing Military Aircraft third quarter revenue increased 15% to $4.1 billion largely driven by F-15 contract negotiations.
Operating margins were 12.2% in the quarter reflecting higher volumes and strong performance.
Network and Space revenue increased 5% to $2.1 billion driven by commercial crew volume.
The segment also generated strong operating margins of 11.5% on favorable mix and productivity improvements.
Global Services and Support revenue declined to $2.2 billion largely driven by timing of deliveries while operating margins were strong at 12.9%.
Defense Space &amp; Security captured $9 billion of orders during the quarter and reported a solid backlog of $59 billion.
Let's move to cash flow now on slide seven.
Operating cash flow for the third quarter was strong at $2.9 billion driven by higher volumes and solid operating performance.
With regards to capital deployment we paid $618 million in dividend and repurchased 11 million shares for $1.5 billion in the third quarter as we continue to deliver on our commitment of returning cash to shareholders.
Year-to-date we've returned $8 billion to shareholders through dividend and repurchased 41 million shares.
Again this reflects our commitment and confidence in the long-term outlook for our business.
Returning cash to shareholders along with continued investments to support future growth remain high priority for us.
Let's now move to cash and debt balances on slide eight.
We ended the quarter with $9.9 billion of cash and marketable securities.
Our cash balance continues to provide solid liquidity and positions us well going forward.
Let's now turn to slide nine and I'll discuss our outlook for the balance of 2015.
Based on the strong operating performance year-to-date we've increased our 2015 guidance for revenue operating margins core earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Core earnings per share guidance for 2015 is increased $0.25 to now be between $7.95 and $8.15 a share on continued solid execution across the business.
The company revenue guidance has increased $500 million now be between $95 billion and $97 billion on higher commercial airplane deliveries.
BCA delivery guidance has increased now five airplanes to be from 755 to 760.
Defense Space &amp; Security operating margin guidance is increased to approximately 10% again reflecting strong operating efficiencies across the business.
Operating cash flow is increased to approximately $9.5 billion on improved performance across the company as well as favorable timing of receipts and expenditures.
And furthermore we're lowering our R&amp;D guidance $100 million to now be $3.4 billion for the year to reflect timing of spending.
In the fourth quarter we expect BCA margins to be impacted by the strong operating performance somewhat offset by delivery mix and higher planned R&amp;D spending on 777X as well as additional investments in productivity initiatives.
So in summary we generated solid revenue growth and healthy operating margins while generating significant cash flow.
We meaningfully returned cash to shareholders and invested in our future.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Dennis for closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Greg.
With three solid quarters behind us we remain focused on disciplined execution quality and productivity improvements and meeting customer commitments.
Our priorities going forward are clear and consistent.
The profitable ramp-up in Commercial Airplane production delivering on our development programs continuing to strengthen our Defense and Space business driving productivity and performance throughout the enterprise to fund our investments innovation talent and technology and importantly providing increasing value to our customers and our shareholders.
Now with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
Our first question comes from Doug Harned with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey good morning Doug.
I'm going to probably violate this a little bit because I wanted to get some clarity on the deferred production ramp as part of this question.
So when you look forward you're talking about being cash positive in Q4 on the 787.
And my understanding was that would be followed by a plateau in 2016 and then that would ramp down as you took rate out toward the back part of 2016.
I just want to make sure that that is still how you're thinking about this.
Yes.
That is how you are thinking about it? Exactly.
Yep.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Doug That's exactly right and that remains consistent.
And we're confident in that profile.
But – okay.
Great.
Then the second part is when you look out toward the end of the block when we look at this the deferred production level suggests to us that when you get in the later portion of the block you're going to have to have unit cash margins move above 25% for the program.
Now that's a pretty good number and what I'd like to know first is that correct? And then second how do you see the path to getting there? Well Doug I won't get into the specific program by program margin but I will give you a sense of kind of – I'll say the few areas are focused on that have been the path and will be the path forward to continue to drive 787 profitability.
Certainly productivity continuing to come down the learning curve internally.
You heard us talk about the progress to date on the 787-9 and the 787-8.
So that's got to continue and we got a lot of projects in work.
We got to get those matured and we got to get them cut in on line numbers.
So there is not a lack of I'll say focus and ideas in that area but we got to get them matured and get them in but continuing to execute as we have on the productivity.
Mix plays a big factor in here and so our ability with a richer mix of Dash-9s and 10s and quite frankly as you've seen the Dash-9 get entered into the production system as smooth as it is is another I think indicator of that mix coming together and keeping in mind this is all in our backlog.
So this is delivering on the backlog but getting that smooth introduction and having that richer mix of Dash-9s and 10s will obviously grow as you get further out into that cost space and deliver on that backlog.
The supply chain obviously we've got planned step down and contractual step down but we also got initiatives that we're working together across in the company and across the supply chain looking for additional productivity ideas.
And keeping in mind there's only been 300 units built here roughly.
And a very steep ramp up and a lot of change in rate break.
Having being stable at 10 and now making that transition up to 12 this is when you look historically this is where you've really been able to capture additional productivity gains.
So we're working with the supply chain on that.
And then rate.
As you know we're going up in rate and it'll total about 40% going up to 12 a month and 16 and then 14 a month later in 2019 timeframe.
So making good progress on getting up to rate within the supply chain as well as getting the factories ready internally.
Again this is delivering on the backlog and you know the market and so that supports these rate increases very much.
But again that'll continue to drive productivity.
And then I guess the only comment I'd make on the margins I'd say they are similar to what we see today on our wide body programs and what we're achieving.
So I'd say good progress to date lot of work ahead of us to do team's got good plans in place but we need to keep executing as we have and that'll be the path going forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Doug just to add a little more color to that as Greg said in each of those dimensions we have real and firm actions underway.
I can tell you for myself Greg Ray and the whole team this is a very important high priority focus area for us and in each of these productivity dimensions that Greg talked about the advantage we have here goes to the fact that we've got 800 of these aircraft roughly in backlog.
So this gives us the opportunity to do that long-term planning and engagement and to drive profitability with that long-term view.
And that is what's going to drive us down the learning curve to get to those objectives that Greg mentioned.
As part of that trajectory then presumably you still have a number of contractual step downs in the supply chain that you're looking forward to and that you know that you have a pretty good handle on I guess.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We do Doug and that includes the overarching Partnering for Success umbrella that we've talked about before that includes committed step downs that are in the plan and a continuing effort to drive value generation.
So our value engineering effort that we've talked about before with our supply chain network more than 1 000 ideas in the pipeline right now that we're moving from design stage to implementation stage.
So both planned and committed step downs as well as additional value generation beyond that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Dennis you recently extended the 787-10 with a new customer and you've done a number of things with the 777 to enhance it as a value proposition.
Could you address a little bit the market dynamics you see because of the capabilities these new airplanes offer and how you see the environment for both the 777 demand and also the 9 and the 10? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Yeah thanks Howard.
So yeah just stepping back and I know there's been a lot of discussion out there about the wide body marketplace and the prospects going forward.
And let me paint for you a market outlook there and then hone in on those two specific airplanes in particular.
But if you take a look at the overall market we continue to see a growing healthy marketplace.
As we said before a current market outlook for 38 000 new airplanes over the next 20 years in total.
We continue to see strong passenger growth independent assessments again of 6% year-over-year growth throughout the time period.
Cargo growth has been more moderated and has been a bit slow to recover as you know but we are seeing some recovery signs there.
If you take a look at overall market characteristics we continue to see a strong healthy marketplace both narrow bodies and wide bodies.
If you take a look at replacement demand it continues to be strong.
We expect about 40% of those aircraft in that market outlook to be driven by replacement demand.
And as I said cancellations and deferrals remain below historic levels as well.
So the market fundamentals remain strong.
Now when we get to the two products you mentioned on 787 as noted with 800 aircraft in backlog and a continuing strong market demand and I think EVA's decision here just in the last couple of weeks to acquire 24 787-10s is just another good sign of the value that that product is bringing to the marketplace.
The 787 is delivering value for our customers.
The value proposition is clearly a competitive advantage both in terms of operating cost reduction as well as the advantage on revenue and cargo volume and residual value that it brings to the customers.
And with the production efficiencies that we're generating we remain very bullish on 787 and as Greg talked about our plan is to ramp up to 12 a month and then to 14 a month before the end of the decade all supported by strong market demand and unique value proposition of that airplane.
On the 777 we've been very focused on building out the 777 bridge as we've talked about.
We needed to generate about 40 to 60 orders per year on the current 777 to build that bridge year-to-date.
We've got 44 orders and commitments so we're continuing to fill out that bridge.
In essence the 777 line is sold out through 2016 more than half sold in 2017 and we continued with a number of serious campaigns there all bridging to the 777X.
And as you pointed out the 777X is bringing again a unique value proposition to the market.
Both today's 777 and the 777X have really no peer competitor and bring unique value to our customers.
And 777X having just completed firm configuration good solid signs on development program being executed on plan and we plan to have EIS on that airplane 2020 as scheduled.
So in all cases a strong fundamental market the right differentiated product line both 787s and 777 and very mindful right now about building a bridge from the 777 to the 777X.
If I just may on the 7-8 you initially had teething pains introducing it into the market.
Could you just for a second and then I'll end here address sort of both dispatch reliability and how you've improved that and how that's also helped lower both airline costs and your costs? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
And we continue to see strong progress.
And you're right.
We had some challenges as we introduced that airplane into our customer fleets and we've been very focused on reliability improvements both in the field and in the production line.
We've seen steadily improving dispatch reliability across our customer set so we're pleased with the progress there.
That said more work to go so we're not done and we're going to continue to drive dispatch reliability there for our customers until we achieve the objectives that we have.
So more work to go.
I will say that reliability improvements that we've delivered to date in the field and then it back driven into production line are really taking hold.
And the best sign of that is with the roughly 50 Dash-9s that we delivered.
As they're hitting the fleets they're coming in at a much higher dispatch reliability than the original Dash-8s.
So just further proof that the investments we're making are delivering value for our customers.
And we're going to stay very focused on getting to the finish line there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Greg maybe one for you.
I know timing around advances is something that's generally hard to predict.
You put out there kind of a placeholder of $3 billion for 2015.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> And year-to-date that hasn't really contributed much.
Yep.
Inc.</span></strong> And if you look at the fourth quarter obviously if that came through it's hard for me to not think you'd be running $1 billion plus ahead of your revised guidance.
So can you help give either the offset or if that is more or less just conservatism around not knowing when that $3 billion is going to tick? Yeah no I mean you said it Myles.
They certainly they do move around.
I still expect it to be a positive contributor to 2015.
But timing does factor in.
So we should have more in the fourth quarter.
But I think stepping back from that you can see it's about the strength of the cash engine here.
And not the reliance on the advances.
Obviously advances are important but when you look into the core of the company you're seeing strong cash flow generation and that's the big focus area for us.
And as you said advances they're going to move around quarter to quarter and we'll have a few more here in the fourth quarter than we have in the third quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> And even with the tick up in the revised cash guidance for this year the outlook is still for growth into 2016 from the new level? Yeah.
I mean as you step back and you look at kind of a long-term profile of the company we still see the same opportunity to have strong cash flow growth going forward.
It really plays into certainly the production rates increases that we've talked about on the 37 the 67 and as well on the 87 over the long term and obviously 787 improving through that period.
So over the long term we're confident in the long-term cash flow growth I'll say story that we have in place.
And I think it's a unique one when I compare us to other industrials.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Thanks.
And we'll go to Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Morning.
Dennis you've talked about in the past being able to get mid-teens margins within the BCA business.
And I guess I'm wondering how comfortable you are still with that? And how do things like the 777 transition and volume and actually lower commodity prices which should be lower escalation how does that play into it? What does it take to get those kind of margins in BCA? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah hey Sam.
Good morning.
Yeah we remain focused on that aspirational target as we've talked about before.
We see margin growth in BCA as an important priority for us.
You're seeing it in the data and the results that we're producing.
The productivity actions that Greg described earlier are all part of doing that.
Part of it is productivity efficiency inside our own factories.
Another key portion of that is within our supply chain through our Partnering for Success effort.
But if we take the longer term view of what our company can and should be getting to that mid-teens margin range is an expectation and aspiration that we set for ourselves.
And I think that's a smart and aggressive target for the long-term.
We're going to stay very focused on it.
As Greg had said with the backlog that we have and the product line that we have our opportunity to generate long-term cash growth and long-term margin accretion is very strong.
And we are taking the right productivity actions both internally and externally to do that.
And that will result in increased return to our shareholders and it will allow us to fund and invest in our future innovation and talent.
So we are very focused on doing that and remain steadfast on that longer term target.
Now regarding your question around 777 as we think about that transition obviously a key topic for us here as the 777X will begin coming into the production system in the 2018 timeframe leading to EIS in 2020.
As I mentioned earlier we're building the 777 bridge with today's current product line leveraging the fact that that airplane does provide a unique value proposition in the marketplace.
We're thinking carefully through exactly how we do that transition and the timing of it.
As we've talked about before it's important that we do that efficiently.
We're trying to pull ahead some of the technology investment in the line like automation in the fuselage line to de-risk that transition.
And as I mentioned earlier we've already implemented that automation here in the 777 line on the Fuselage Upright Build and that's going well.
So that's another way to de-risk that transition and ensure profitability through it.
There's been a lot of conversations out there about exactly what the shape of that transition might be.
And we're factoring in market demand; as I said some uncertainty around cargo recovery; frankly some uncertainty around Ex-Im Bank reauthorization.
Those are factors that could cause some customers to delay decisions around wide bodies so we're being mindful of that.
We want to make sure we maintain a highly profitable line through the transition.
All of those factors are going into our planning right now.
Frankly with that we don't see any scenarios where we'd come down below a seven a month production rate during the transition.
Important again to remind ourselves that 2016 is essentially sold out; 2017 is more than half sold out.
So this transition that we're talking about is a 2017 and beyond transition.
And through all of that we're going to drive this in a way that maximizes profitability at the line through the transition allows us to continue to invest in the future and my broader comments about continued cash growth and margin accretion over the long-term all account for that 777 transition.
So that's all factored into our bigger game plan.
Thanks.
And Greg I don't know if you can mention anything about commodity costs and how that affects the escalation and your assumptions in the program accounting.
Did it have any effect this quarter? No no.
It didn't.
It didn't Sam.
It didn't have much impact at all.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So could you comment whether there were any adjustments to commercial blocks or accrual rates? And then kind of relatedly Dennis you talked about moderated kind of quarter strength.
Are you still looking for book-to-bill to get to 1.0 for the year because it looks like you're going to have to move pretty quickly to get there? And if so how does the Chinese order play into that and what are the implications of kind of getting there or not getting there in terms of potential profitability looking forward? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Cai let me take the second part and then I'll flip it to Greg for your first question.
Yep okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So regarding book-to-bill for the year again we continue to see book-to-bill of approximately 1 for the end of the year.
As I mentioned we have some hesitancy right now in the wide body marketplace around cargo recovery and uncertainty with the Ex-Im Bank.
That's causing some customers to pause a bit on decision-making so it's more of a timing issue rather than a volume issue.
So we still anticipate book-to-bill to be roughly 1 by the end of the year.
Some decisions could slide into the early part of the new year.
Frankly with about 5 700 aircraft in backlog annual book-to-bill ratios are not that important to us.
We're continuing to generate orders pipeline but timing quarter-to-quarter if it happens to shift a bit with the kind of backlog we have we remain very confident in the long-term plan.
Now as you mentioned the recent announcement by our customers in China was very positive for us.
We were honored to host President Xi at our factory in Everett a couple of weeks ago amongst a number of agreements that included an announcement around 300 aircraft 250 narrow bodies and 50 wide bodies.
Some of those are airplanes that were already in backlog but unidentified.
Others are incremental new commitments.
And we'll be working through the specific deals on those airplanes with our customers over the next many months.
And we'll announce those as they come to fruition.
But that will generally create upside to our book-to-bill posture for the end of the year.
Greg you want to take the first part of the question? Sure.
Yeah Cai on block extensions we extended the 737 by 200 aircraft so one block extension there.
And then with the increased demand and outlook on the 767 we increased that as well by 34 units.
As far as changing in booking rates by program no significant changes I'd say Cai across the board.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah one quick clarification question and then the meat of one.
Dennis you mentioned a rate of 7 a month on the 777.
Would you be firing blanks in that environment? That's the clarification question.
And then the meat of the question one for Greg on CapEx out into the future.
Can you talk about the puts and takes that you're likely to see over the next couple of years on CapEx? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
Yeah.
Hey Jason on the first question there yeah that will be factored into the overall transition plan.
And as you're well aware that's a very common practice for us as we transition model mixes in our high volume lines.
As we go from 777 to 777X where we can pull technology and implementation ahead as we're doing with automation we will.
That'll make the transition even smoother.
In some cases we will fire selected blanks down the production line.
That again will help us smooth out implementation and ensure lean implementation.
Note that we'll also have some 777 flight test – excuse me 777X flight test aircraft that will flow through the production system in that same timeframe.
So all of that will be factored into the production profile and the transition plan.
But again as I said we look through all the options and variables here both from a market demand standpoint from a production efficiency standpoint we don't see any scenarios that would take us below a 7 a month production rate.
And we're very confident that we can achieve that implementation remain very profitable on that line while we do it and successfully bring the 777X to the marketplace.
And Jason on CapEx we'll expect to go up slightly next year from our levels this year.
And again that's supporting the growth in the production rates we talked about and further investments in the Defense business as well as some of the productivity initiatives.
So further implementation of the automation activity on the 37 and the 87 will also be put into play there.
And again supporting 777X as well as the planned production rates.
And then I would say past 2016 then we start to come down and moderate from there as really again linked to our growth and linked to our investment profile.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
You're welcome.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
Thanks Jason.
And we'll go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hey.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Ron.
Quick question for you for Greg.
When you think about balancing near term capital returns to shareholders versus long-term value and kind of in the context of this is I'm thinking about the share buybacks year-to-date you guys bought back if I did the math right 41.5 million shares for about $6 billion.
Right? Yeah.
That implies an average cost of maybe $144 to $145 per share.
Yeah.
That's within about 10% of the historical highs of the stock.
How do you think about that? Well we think the stock is still undervalued.
And again I think it goes to the marketplace that Dennis talked about.
It goes to the strength of the backlog which then links rate to the production rates that we have announced that are again delivering on that backlog.
So it's that profile along with the productivity expectations year-over-year.
So we obviously see a lot of value still left in this stock.
That's why we bought back $20 billion in the last three years and remain committed to that.
At the same time remain committed to the dividend to ensure that we're competitive from the dividend perspective as well as investing in the business.
Then that's been first and foremost for us investing in things like 777X like the MAX like 787-9 and 10 and these rate increases along with again efficiencies automation that we're putting in on 777 we're putting in on 37 and then additional investments we're making down in Charleston to support again productivity and rate increases.
So that's the kind of profile we see that gives us the confidence to continue to buy back these shares but have a balanced deployment plan to meet all our objectives.
Great.
Super.
And if I may just a follow-on be it that everybody else asked about five questions.
How do you guys think about the middle of the market airplane? That's something we've been thinking about a lot and there's been a lot of chatter about that in the industry.
How do you think about it as a potential market opportunity and what investment would be required? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we still see that as a niche market but an important one and we're having conversations with our customers.
We see today that that market space is largely served by our 737 MAX 8 and 9 family and on the upper end by the 787 and we think that in large part serves that market space.
It's important that a lot of our customers their buying behavior and their needs are related to families of aircraft.
And we still see in that narrow body marketplace the MAX 8 as being right at the heart of the market augmented with the MAX 9 to serve some of those needs that are in that more the middle of the market segment.
So for the near term we see our current product line as being the right answer for that segment.
That said we're continuing to have conversations with our customers and if we need to respond with a new airplane in that marketplace that would be something that would be more towards the middle of the next decade.
It's not something that would dramatically affect our R&amp;D profiles over the next four to five years.
We think those profiles are very solid with our current development programs but it is something we're keeping an eye on continuing to talk with our customers.
Understand their needs.
And if the market demands a response we'll be ready.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question's from Seth Seifman with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Seth.
Morning.
Digging in on the 787 a little bit more and what to expect in Q4 not to nitpick too much but you've talked in the past about a healthy decline in the deferred growth in Q4.
But now we're starting from a lower level so just maybe a little more color on how to think about that? And then if you could explain a little bit about the dynamics as we head into 2016 and kind of why it plateaus for a little while before coming down at that (44:35)? Sure.
Yeah no.
We'll see a decline in deferred in the fourth quarter I'd say similar to the rate of decline you've seen in this quarter and Q3 certainly was helped by strong performance but we did have some timing of expenditures as well.
So we had a little bit of I'll say favorable pick-up in the third quarter.
But again I think when you step back and look at the overall profile or deferred to-date it's better than what we originally projected.
And then as you move into 2016 Seth as I said you'll start to see that turn once you hit the 12 a month.
So the growth will moderate obviously into the fourth quarter and then through into 2016 until you hit that rate and then that's when we would expect it to turn.
And that turn down again is driven by the rate as well as the step-down on the supply chain the contracted step-down pricing and the continued productivity but also that mix.
I mean ensuring that we've got that Dash-9 continues to come into the production system as it has.
So those are kind of I'd say the key indicators or key levers as we move into 2016.
Thanks very much.
You're welcome.
And next we'll go to Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Dennis and Greg.
Morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg I wondered if we could go back to the margins for a second.
Just I noted you extended the block 200 units on the 37 but no material margin increase there.
I wondered why that was.
I assume that would be all MAXs.
And then on the 777 Dennis your comments about trying to maintain that margin rate to the extent possible.
You obviously have some pretty significant extra cost there when you transition over the surge line from the 87 to the 777.
Is it that that cost is in the 777X block or it's called R&amp;D? How should we think about how you manage the two different programs going down the same line? Because there's obviously significant cost there.
So any color would be much appreciated.
Yeah let me – If you're all right I'll answer the MAX question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Go ahead Greg.
Yep.
It was a slight pickup Carter but again 200 units on a large block.
So there's a lot of moving pieces in there.
There's some investment in there for additional rate increases and productivity.
So when you net that all out again not a significant change on overall booking rates for the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> But positive? Okay.
Yep.
Yep.
Inc.</span></strong> And on 777? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And to your second question on 777 so as you noted the R&amp;D investments the CapEx investments we're making to bring 777X online are all part of the profile that we've shared with you in terms of our total R&amp;D and CapEx investment.
Where we can pull those forward and pre-implement on the 777 line to reduce risk like the Fuselage Upright Build we are doing that but all of that is included in our total investment profile for 777X.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question is from Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you please expand your comments on the upward pressure on single isle rates and can you let us know if there's push back from supply chain particularly on engines? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we take a look at the market there Steve.
It continues to show signs of strength and growth.
What we're seeing from customers in terms of market demand especially from 737 MAX continues to be a positive sign for us.
As we've told you we're at 42 a month now we're ramping to 47 a month and 52 a month by 2018.
Those are committed plans that we have in place.
We continue to do studies on possibilities of ramping up beyond that.
As I said earlier we're going to maintain very strict financial discipline as we do those studies being very mindful about it.
We are still in a slightly over booked position in terms of our order profile for the 737 and all of that just creates general upward pressure to production rates.
We're going to be very fiscally responsible as we consider those options.
Again our committed plan takes us out through 2018 so we have time to consider these alternatives beyond that.
The other thing that I'd like to factor in is the 737 MAX development; the fact that we've achieved power-on on the first airplane that final assembly is on or ahead of schedule also gives us confidence in terms of the airplane coming together and being ready for EIS with our customer.
So both the development program progress as well as the market demand signals show us that narrow bodies are a very robust market for us both short and long-term.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And again any pushback from suppliers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we continue to talk to our supply chain.
Certainly it's ramping up to the degree we're ramping up is something that we have to pay attention to.
And our supply chain is letting us know where they see pressure points and where we need to work together.
Nothing that I would say is out of the ordinary.
These are normal ramp-up pressures and we know how to do these rate ramp ups.
We've done more than a dozen over the last few years.
We've got a few more important ones ahead of us during the next five years.
But working across the integrated supply chain and making sure they have the capacity and the capability to deliver on our needs is an important part of the equation.
That's one of the things we factor into our committed plans.
We remain very confident that our supply chain can meet our ramp up to 52 a month on the MAX.
If we were to go beyond that factoring in supply chain capability is a key component of that decision.
Again we have plenty of time to make that decision with the committed plans we already have in place.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And that will be from Rob Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Dennis I wanted to ask you on the buyback but before I get to that just a quick question for Greg on the F-15 and then I think there were some C-17s that were pre-built but delivered in the quarter.
So Greg the question there is how much cash did the F-15 deal I think it's about $700 million contribution to revenue but those two items how much unusual cash did those provide in the quarter? And then Dennis for you given that you have pretty good visibility into what your program investment looks like over let's say the next half decade with the MAX the 777X and it sounds like 757 replacements in the plan but doesn't really ramp until after that.
Given that can we expect that your buyback at the current levels should continue unabated going forward at roughly those levels? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Greg why don't you take the first one? Yeah I mean no impact on cash on the F-15 Rob and then I'd say very insignificant on the C-17.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And to your go-forward question Rob again as we look at priorities for cash deployment over the next several years top priority remains organic investment and this is delivering on our development programs like the 777X the MAX and the 787-10.
We're confident in that and as we said before with the phasing of those programs our R&amp;D profile year to year we expect to remain consistent.
And so that should give you confidence that our R&amp;D foundation is not going to vary significantly year to year.
That'll be a foundational investment that's built into the plan over the next five years.
Second priority as we said is returning strong value to our shareholders both in the form of dividends and share repurchase.
We expect that to continue to be a strong component of our overall cash deployment over the next many years.
And then thirdly any targeted actions we might take in the M&amp;A arena acquisition arena.
That would be a third priority in that list.
So we're going to remain very focused on those priorities and the fact that we expect long-term cash growth will allow us to fuel both those future investments and things like share repurchase.
So Dennis to just close the kind of loop on that barring big M&amp;A forward years should really not look any different than now from a buyback perspective or perhaps higher given that you're ramping? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'm not going to give you guidance to specific numbers Rob but share repurchase and dividend strength over the long term will continue to be a high priority for us on cash deployment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that completes the analyst question-and-answer session.
I'll now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Mr.
Tom Downey Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications.
Mr.
Downey please go ahead.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Dennis and Greg.
If you have any questions following this part of the session please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we are ready for the first question and in the interest of time we ask that you limit everyone to just one question please.
And we'll go to Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg News.
Please go ahead.
Oh hi all.
I just wanted to circle back on 777 rate and follow up with a 747 rate question.
I just want to make sure I understand this.
Are you studying taking the rate to seven a month or planning to? And would this be effective in 2017? Or are we looking more at like at 2018 for the triple? And on 74 obviously the cargo market is not helping order activity with that plane.
Are we potentially looking at taking the rate below one a month? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah let me field the first one there and then Greg I'll ask you to touch on the second one.
Yeah sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Julie regarding 777 as I said we're doing our scenario planning right now that includes market demand and feedback we're hearing from our customers.
It includes the value proposition of the 777 and the 777X and I want to stress again that that airplane is providing an absolutely unique value proposition in the marketplace.
It's differentiated and our customers see it and then also doing an efficient and profitable transition from 777 to 777X.
So those are all things that we're factoring into our plan.
We haven't finalized that plan yet.
We're working through a variety of options.
But as we look through all of those options we don't see any scenarios that would take us below a seven a month production rate.
So we wanted to make sure that was clear as there's been speculation about what option range we might look at.
We see that as a floor for our planning given all the scenarios we're looking at.
Specific timing implementation is yet to be finalized.
We're working our way through those details.
Those will be decisions we'll have to make in the first part of next year.
But I'll stress again that we are sold out essentially through 2016; more than half sold out through 2017.
So what we're talking about here is a transition that's out 2017 and beyond.
And we would get into the meat of that in the 2018 timeframe.
So more details to be worked through but we remain confident that considering all the factors I talked about that we'll be able to profitably go through that transition and bring the 777X to the marketplace.
Yeah Julie on 747 as you know this has been a challenging marketplace recently and we took the – we announced taking the rate down from 1.3 to 1 a month early in 2016.
So we continue to monitor that marketplace.
It is challenging right now.
It is driven by the market.
It's a great airplane.
It's an airplane that sits in a class within itself whether it's an I or a freighter.
So this is certainly market dynamics.
We've got a pipeline of customers we're looking at.
But again having said that it's a challenging marketplace for the airplane.
So we continue to watch it and at the same time focus on productivity within the factories and the supply chain.
And we'll likely take another look at the rate here early next year and see where we are on orders and backlog and move forward from there but right now the plan is to hold at one a month.
Our next question's from Doug Cameron with The Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I know you must be pretty exhausted after that defense question at the end of the analyst call but hopefully you'll indulge me.
Given the amount of portfolio shaping that's going on amongst the primes now Dennis how comfortable are you with the shape of the BDS right now particularly on military aircraft and space? And are you comfortable with that regardless of what happens with some big upcoming contests? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Doug we are.
And as I said before we have a strong robust healthy Defense business.
Now it's a tough marketplace and we've acknowledged that.
We're dealing with realities of sequestration in the U.S.
defense budget somewhat offset by what we've seen as international defense growth especially in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific regions.
But our Defense business overall is a healthy portfolio.
We like the program structures we have.
We're growing internationally and we're investing for the long run.
That marketplace is somewhat muted so we expect that business to be relatively flat to slight growth top line.
In parallel with that we're continuing to drive bottom line performance and you saw it in the results here with a 12.2% margin quarter in our defense business.
So that's a robust important part of our portfolio.
We have differentiated product lines on things like commercial derivatives the P-8 and the tanker which present us for opportunities for longer term growth and leverage the one Boeing value if you will across commercial and defense sectors.
We're continuing to invest in future product lines around human space exploration satellites.
We're investing in unmanned systems and ISR capabilities.
And importantly we are investing for some critical franchise programs for the future.
You alluded to that.
But programs like long range strike the new T-X trainer are important and one of the reasons we continue to drive productivity is so we can invest in those future product lines.
And we don't see a need to significantly change the structure of our Defense business.
We're going to stay very focused on executing the business investing organically and where we can make targeted acquisitions to round out our portfolio we'll continue to do that.
Our next question's from Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Dennis and Greg.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Dominic.
I just wanted to clarify a couple of things about the 777 rate question.
The EIS for 777X is 2020.
But presumably that's going to ramp up over several years.
So the first question about the bridge is how far beyond 2020 are you still having to fill a bridge for the current 777 model? And then secondly you gave us some reassurance that the floor for the production rate in the bridge is seven a month but you've also mentioned firing blanks in that.
Can you give us some idea like how many blanks are we talking about? If it was one a month that's very different from one or two a year.
So give us some guidance there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah hey Dominic to the first part of your question.
When you look at the duration of the bridge you're right 777X EIS is in 2020.
As we said the bridge we're trying to build with the current 777 is roughly a five-year bridge so it takes us to that same timeframe.
The depth of that bridge is most significant in the 2018 2019 timeframe.
So we're very focused on filling that out.
And we need about 40 to 60 aircraft per year over that five years to fill that bridge.
So that effort continues to press ahead.
Now when you think about the transition production rate the fact that we'll fire some selective blanks through the line that is not a high volume decision to your point.
This is something that we'll do selectively as we bring lean implementation online in the new production rate.
We haven't finalized exactly how many that will be but those are incrementals not a sustained activity.
And then also mindful that we will have some 777X flight test aircraft typical numbers of flight test aircraft principally in the 2018 2019 timeframe that'll be within that production line as well.
So both of those are being factored into the profile.
And our next question's from Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Can you hear me? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
Yep.
Okay.
So I wanted to come back to the 787 Dennis and ask and also Greg how far do you think you can keep increasing the deferred production costs? Are we nearing the upper limit of what you can reasonably defer without taking a charge? And if we're nearing that how do you think about whether you need to increase the accounting block? Or at what point you may need to take a reach forward loss? Yeah on the deferred I would say Alwyn that the profile hasn't changed.
The key milestones haven't changed.
The growth will start to moderate again in the fourth quarter and as I've indicated once we hit 12 a month that's when the deferred will start to turn I'd say all the key contributors to that unit cost mix.
And again getting to the 12 a month which again we're making good progress in that area.
So those are all the key items I'll say the contributors to that but the fundamental milestones in the profile that has not changed from what we discussed probably a year and a half ago.
Operator we have time for one final media question.
And that'll be from Micah Maidenberg with Crain's Chicago Business.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Dennis or Greg Delta Air Lines has continued to push this idea that there's a bubble in the wide body aircraft market.
They compared that segment to the pre-recession real estate market.
Any comment on this take from Delta? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Micah I'll go back to my earlier comments about our broader look at the wide body market.
We continue to see a very healthy overall marketplace both narrow bodies and wide bodies.
As I said traffic growth is sustained.
Replacement demand is sustained.
Deferrals cancellations below historic levels.
We recognize some of the comments that have come out recently and believe you're referencing the note around $10 million 777s that might be available.
I'll say just based on our understanding of the marketplace and what we understand from our customers that number is the wrong order of magnitude.
And frankly the value of the 777 is holding up very well in the marketplace.
It is a unique airplane.
In that 365-seat category there is no competing aircraft out there.
It's a unique value proposition for our customers.
So values are holding up well in the marketplace.
We are mindful that the cargo market has been a bit slow to return.
We're mindful of the fact that lack of Ex-Im Bank reauthorization is creating some uncertainty and some delays in customer decisions.
And so we're considering that.
But if you step back from it the overall health of the marketplace and the unique value proposition of our airplanes is very clear and we remain confident in that.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have additional questions please call our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And first on the line is Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I don't know whether we should talk a little bit about gallows humor for a moment but I won't go there gentlemen.
I was hoping maybe we'd get a different outcome on the second time we heard the call.
But maybe we could talk about cash flow.
And I want to put it in context for half a second.
You've stuck to the plan on deferred on the 78.
And that should be a fairly impressive improvement year-over-year call it $2 billion in rough numbers.
Yet and then you also raised the dividend fairly significantly in the fourth quarter.
And you have a plan typically I think it is to buy back about or distribute to shareholders about 80% of your cash flow.
So there seems to be a little bit of a disconnect there.
And I hate to ask you to be a little bit granular on this Greg but could you walk through some of the moving pieces please? On operating cash Howard? Yes please.
Yeah I mean if you look at kind of walking from 2015 to 2016 obviously improved performance as you indicated improved performance specifically on 787 cash.
Some of the things that I'll say kind of a headwind going into 2016 offsetting some of that is certainly higher cash tax payments as we improve our unit cost and performance on the 787.
So we'll have some of that headwind in this year.
And remember last year we had a lot of C-17 receipts as we sold the bulk of the final aircraft.
And obviously we've got one left that we won't get those receipts this year.
And then just continuing to build inventory on the tanker as we get ready to deliver that in 2017.
And as Dennis indicated we've had a very successful milestone there recently.
So that's going well.
And then of course you've got the MAX transition going on.
So those are some of the big moving pieces.
And at the same time the long term kind of view on cash flow remains unchanged Howard.
We expect that to continue to grow.
That's driven by again the improved productivity but also the production rates that we've committed to.
As Dennis indicated we're going up on 37 beyond what we described earlier up to 57 a month in 2019.
But we also have a number of other rate increases in there on the 37 building to that as well as 787 as I said tracking well to 12 a month with a plan to go to 14.
So as we look at it over the long term we don't see a different view.
As far as committing to return cash to shareholders as you indicated we have $14 billion of authorization and we plan to use it as we have the prior authorization.
And we're committed to returning cash to shareholders in the fashion that you've seen over the last couple of years going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the production rate moves you've done and in particular the effects that they've had or will have on the booking rates in terms of margins.
Yeah.
With particular on the 777 given your current program effectively extends only for the current generation.
So if you can walk through the 47 cut the 777 cut what it means to the margins and then maybe the 37 and wrap it all into if there were any moves on the 87.
Thanks.
Yeah the production rates that we talked about the 47 coming down and the 777 going to seven a month in 2017 that's all in this quarter's booking rate.
Okay.
So that's all been accounted for in there.
Combined with the investment for the 37 some of that to go up to 57 out in the 2019 timeframe.
So that's all been taken into account in this quarter's booking rates.
And the only clarification on that seven a month on the 777 that's going to be equal to deliveries that production is equal to deliveries of no in terms of 777Xs or anything like that [indiscernible]? In 2017 it's seven a month.
As we get into 2018 obviously we'll start to build some test aircraft and get ready for the flight test program.
And then very similar to what you've seen on the 787-8 transitioning to the 9.
We'll see some longer flow times and learning associated with those early units.
And those will obviously have some impact in the 2018 timeframe.
But again taking all that into consideration as you look at the top line and then look at the cash flow going forward we expect to continue to grow.
That's what's assumed.
Okay.
Thanks again.
Okay.
Yes.
Thank you so much.
So you said that the 787 deferred would be about 200 in the first quarter and then down as you go through the year.
And yet it looks like the last two quarters were little bit better than expected.
Yeah.
What are the chances that it could be better than that? And what sort of a profile of decline should we look for as we look ahead? And similarly on R&amp;D it on the other hand looks a little higher than maybe some of us thought this year.
What sort of profile should we look for R&amp;D as we think out to 2017 and 2018? Yeah Cai on R&amp;D as you saw we came in a little light on 2015 to what we had guided some of that.
It was just timing moving into 2016.
And obviously the bulk of that is 777X which is actually performing very well to schedule and to cost as we get ready for that entry into service further out in 2020 timeframe.
So that spending is going to start to ramp up here.
But I think for the next couple years Cai you're going to see kind of flattish R&amp;D.
And again that's just some movement between 777X and then 10X winding down.
So that's how we see it going forward.
On deferred you're right.
We have had some good performance there in the last couple of quarters and we've assumed some of that going into the balance of this year.
So we see similar growth as I indicated in the first quarter.
And then that will start to moderate.
And again we see that declining shortly after we hit that 12 a month further out into this year.
So obviously it continues to be a big focus area.
But the team has done a very good job.
And we're assuming additional productivity again through the balance of from 2015 into the balance of 2016.
Cai I think it's reiterating the fact that that profile that Greg just described is completely consistent with what we shared with you previously.
And part of our theme here is meeting the commitments and promises that we talked about.
So 787 getting to be 4Q cash positive out-performing on deferred production inventory meeting the profile that we talked about delivering $9.4 billion of cash in the year.
As you see our guide $10 billion of cash in this year conveys to you our strong cash growth story and we remain confident in that.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
I just wanted to dig a little deeper into the 737 and the rate increase announcement up to 57.
Can you provide some more color on the assumptions under that in terms of retirements or any change in your expectations for mix replacement versus capacity underneath the assumptions in the rate increase? Yeah we continue to see a fundamental strength in the marketplace.
So as you just pointed out stepping up to 57 a month in 2019 just continues the trend of confidence that we see in the narrow-body marketplace.
In particular we continue to see strong long-term passenger growth at 6% to 7% a year that is global in nature.
We're seeing that in all of our different market sectors and across all of our different 737 model lines.
All of that is telling us that continuing to ramp up production to keep supply and demand imbalance is the right thing to do.
And as you know we're very diligent about these rate ramp ups.
We make these decisions with a long-term perspective and this conveys our confidence in the long-term market and what we're seeing in narrow-body growth.
So our plans right now as we transition to the MAX during this coming year we step up to our 47 a month as planned in 2017 52 a month in 2018 and now stepping to 57 a month in 2019 all of that being buttressed with our long-term view of the – of passenger growth.
Do you assume Dennis – I appreciate it – do you assume the retirements maybe pick up again after being down so much here in 2015 and 2014 relative to what we saw in 2010 2011 2012 and 2013? Yeah we continue to see about 40% of overall aircraft are in the replacement category so it's a combination of growth and replacement.
About 60% growth about 40% replacement on balance.
It varies a bit year-to-year region-by-region but that gives you a sense for it.
And the value proposition of our airplanes is compelling whether you're looking at replacement of old assets or the need to satisfy passenger growth.
You see that reflected in some of the just very recent customer decisions.
The Southwest Airlines announcement that was made just a week ago refers to both passenger growth as well as the compelling value proposition of fleet modernization.
And – but both of those continue to play over the long run.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hey.
Good afternoon everyone.
Good afternoon.
Hey Greg or Dennis I was just hoping you could walk us through the disconnect this year between your announced build rates and the delivery schedule or the delivery guidance that you've offered up to us.
I know we've got some inventory that's getting built on the 67.
It looks like a little bit the 37 backs.
Just wondering if that disconnect reverses next year and we actually see deliveries outstrip the build rates or the announced build rates in 2017 because you're undershooting it this year? Yeah let me add just a little color to that Jason and I'll ask Greg to add on as well.
If you take a look at this year again compared to 2015 as you well noted our delivery guidance is down about 20 aircraft.
The majority of that is in the 737 principally because of the MAX transition as we've always planned.
So we'll be building another two test aircraft this year and then we're also building ahead on MAX's that will be ultimately delivered in 2017.
But there's about a dozen aircraft in there that are 737 and related to the MAX transition as planned.
That's why you see deliveries down a bit this year.
There's also a bit of a pullback because of our announced reduction in 747 rate.
So those are the principle drivers in terms of numbers of aircraft.
Now to your point it's really important that we look at this from a long-term view.
So while we'll go through a transition in 2016 if you look at the seven rate ramp ups ahead of us and look out over the next several years you'll see that revenue will grow you'll see that deliveries will grow as we execute on the backlog and so just stepping back from a year of transition and looking out to 2017 2018 you'll see revenue growth you'll see earnings growth you'll see cash growth.
We remain very confident in that story and that's backed up by the committed rate ramp ups that we have in the plan and we're continuing to consistently execute.
So it's very important to note that this year you'll see a bit of a transition because the MAX a temporary reduction in revenue top line if you will as a result but we can tell you very clearly that our long-term view here is increasing top and bottom line performance and cash growth year-over-year.
Greg anything you want to add to that? The only thing I would add Jason is that when you're looking into next year deliveries will outpace just slightly production rates because of everything Dennis just articulated.
So this really is a point of transition and particularly on the 37.
And then obviously we talked about the 747 market.
But I think when you're thinking about the MAX coming in the production system if you think about how smoothly the Dash 9 has come into the 787-8 line.
That methodology and the process that were applied there are the exact same ones being applied here to ensure that we have smooth transition and we meet those rate increases and the commitments we made to our customers.
So it's a near term transition but absolutely the right thing to do for the long term.
And as Dennis indicated 57 a month is very healthy for us as we look at that order book and percentage sold out.
So we feel very comfortable about going up in that rate over the long term but we want to do it as we have very smoothly and very productively through each one of those increases.
And further to Greg's point that approach we've used on the Dash 8 to Dash 9 transition on the 87 using that same approach now on the MAX we'll apply that same approach as we get to 777 777X transition.
And the comments I made just a few minutes ago on our growth prospects and expectations going forward include that 777 transition and the seven per month rate during that transition that I referenced earlier.
So we take a composite view of all of the lines transitioning in the new models and the strength of the rate ups that are in the plan.
The composite of all of that leads us to top and bottom line growth and growing cash.
The 67 line will it see fewer deliveries this year than the build rate and then more next year? Yeah it will.
It will.
I think we had about 16 last year and we'll probably have about 10 this year.
It was a couple of commercial just timing on a couple deliveries.
And then we have tankers that obviously we're ramping up here and we'll complete them.
And they will deliver in 2017.
So we got that transition going on from 2015.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
You're welcome.
Thanks very much.
And good afternoon.
I wonder if we could talk a little bit more about the margins at BCA.
And you guys have talked kind of longer term about it at an aspirational level of those being much higher than kind of the 10% we were running.
But this year in the guidance is to go down to 9%.
So as we think about the moving pieces here going forward how do margins expand off this 9% level at BCA? And I know you mentioned that the 777 cut was incorporated into the program margin this quarter but do you anticipate any pressure on overall BCA profitability as that rate cut takes effect and we move into 2017? Yeah to the first part of your question our goal and aspiration for where we're headed on margins is not changed.
As we've mentioned before we are driving fundamental productivity with a target of increasing our operating margins to get into that mid-teen range.
And that remains our aspirational target.
I think it's a challenging but reasonable expectation.
And we have a number of affordability and productivity initiatives underway to achieve that.
And those are market-based.
They include our partnering for success effort with our supply chain as well as our lien and capturing the value of quality efforts within our factory spaces and our office spaces.
So that long-term target remains consistent and we'll continue to drive in that direction.
There are a few puts and takes for this year as you noted.
As Greg mentioned earlier we do have slightly higher R&amp;D this year driven primarily by 777X.
We do have lower volume on the 37 line because of the MAX transition as we mentioned earlier.
And there is some dilution of margins due to higher 87 revenue.
So all of those are factored into the guidance that we've given you for the current year.
But again our longer-term expectation is to drive productivity and head towards that mid-teen range in terms of margins.
Greg anything you want to add on? No I don't.
I know you covered it unless you have anything else Seth.
And so you would say that a double digit – when the 737 begins delivering in line with the production rate in 2017 a 777 rate of seven a month is consistent with a double digit margin at BCA? That's what we're focused on Seth.
The big factor as well as we continue to ramp up 787 and drive productivity and 787 increasing margins in that program represents a syndicate opportunity for us.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
Following up you talked about in be billed on the 37 and the 67 in 2016.
Can you maybe Greg could you maybe quantify what's baked into your free cash flow forecast? So if we look at BCA inventory less 787 what you're assuming in terms of an inventory build.
And then won't 737 MAX inventory also build in 2017 as you start to deliver the airplanes? I know you're going to be going up in rate behind that.
Thanks.
Well yeah certainly on these aircraft that we're building this year and won't deliver until next that is going to go into inventory.
But that's taken into account with the approximate $10 billion of cash flow in 2016.
So we've taken that into account.
And as we look forward in the year-over-year growth in cash flow all those kind of moving pieces on these rate transitions have also been taken into account.
Thank you.
Hey Doug.
When I look at deliveries Commercial Aircraft deliveries in 2016 guidance versus 2015 and you look at revenues they're both coming down about 2% or so.
So I wanted to understand if you were to think about the fact that you're going to actually have more attractive variance from a pricing standpoint with 787-9 and some larger 737 variance.
And then you think if you've got a little bit from escalation that you might actually see revenue do a little better than that.
When you think about it and you look at escalation pricing mix how do you see each of those moving into 2016 and then perhaps into 2017? Yeah certainly 87 with the more favorable mix on the 9s you're right.
We're going to have more revenue on a per unit basis there.
But at the same time as we said you've got the 37 transition to 67.
And then on 47 we're projecting to have lower deliveries in there.
A the production rate but we've also got some customer requests to move some of those airplanes.
So but we're taking that into account as well Doug.
So it is there's a lot of moving pieces in there obviously.
As far as escalation goes certainly that's a watch item for us as we see lower oil prices and how that will affect the booking rates going forward.
Obviously we've tried everything up for Q4 results.
But it's something we're watching.
There is obviously that escalation that's already assumed in the pricing has been taken into account in our guidance.
So again a number of moving pieces in there but it's really a lot of those transitional points on some of those programs that's offsetting some the additional 787 revenue expected.
Given that you're also your pricing is pretty much set for most everything in 2016 and 2017.
And if you put escalation aside for a moment are you looking at any pressure on pricing in those next two years? No nothing material.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Hey guys.
Just looking ahead to 2017 are we to assume that 737 deliveries are up only modestly given you'll have even more MAXs in the production system? I'm just looking maybe for some comfort that this transition into 2017 and 2018 is going to be kind of smoother and less of a headwind than it looks like it will be in 2016.
Yeah I think that's right.
I mean listen this is there's nothing more to read into this other than smooth transition into the MAX at the 42 a month rate and building those test aircraft.
So that introduction as we going into this year and then as we go further as we increase rate and bring in more MAX airplanes again I don't see that as a significant issue at this point.
I think the plans are very solid but it is some near-term transition that we'll work our way through.
But again as Dennis indicated it's the same approach that we took on the 787 and the same approach we'll take on the 777 and the 777X.
So...
And on the 37 line you'll see is getting to the backside of the MAX transition as we get into 2017.
Yes.
And you'll see us ramping up to the 47 a month planned production rate increase.
But both of those factors will play in an advantageous way to the 37 deliveries in 2017.
Okay.
It's just hard to understand the comparison with the 787 given that you've doubled deliveries there over a couple years as a new model came in.
And now you're talking about 737 being down in 2016.
Well again you've got a couple of test aircraft right for the flight test program that you're not going to deliver this year.
So you're going to produce some and you're going to deliver them.
And then we have additional MAX airplanes that we're actually building this year that will be delivered next year.
So that's the difference.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
And the key here is again we're doing the right thing to make sure this is a profitable smooth transition.
We remain very confident in that.
And as I think hopefully you saw the news recently we are on track to fly the MAX very soon.
So that development has gone well.
The airplane is looking solid and as soon as the weather is right we will fly the airplane.
So we're very confident in the MAX and our planned ramp up.
Hey.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Hey Carter.
Just a clarification and then a question if I can.
On the question relating to the program margin changes you said that are already incorporated in your guidance for BCA presumably the 777 cut had a negative program margin move associated with it and the 737 rate increase had the opposite.
Obviously we had a negative impact with the forward loss on the 47 but are those correct? Well yes they're actually in the Q4 booking rate as well.
Oh of course.
Right? So – and then into 2016.
But yeah there was a modest impact on the 777 with the rate cut and the 37 was at least from a quarter-to-quarter perspective was about flat.
There wasn't a significant change there.
And again that did incorporate some of the investment to go up to 57.
Okay.
And just to clarify here the parallel – the comparison to the 787 that you're talking about on the MAX does that refer to building the 787-9 on the surge line alongside the 787-8 and you're going to build the MAX in a third line at Renton alongside the NG? Is that what you mean by the same plan the same model? Yeah I mean I think that is the same.
And at the same time and as you know when you get further back in the supply chain is where you see the longer flow in learning because sometimes they're utilizing the same tooling and same fixtures.
But that methodology about ensuring we have enough flow time for the derivative aircraft implementation and taking into account the learning associated with that that's all taken into account.
Now the uniqueness to this is that we will be building these airplanes this year and delivering them next year.
But again that's all taken into consideration as a smooth introduction into the production system.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
Okay.
You're welcome.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
Hey.
Good afternoon Dennis Greg.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Hey Greg or Dennis on the CapEx investments whether we're talking all the automation stuff that you're doing on the wing build or the fuselage on the 777 how does that profile look over you know I assume it's again relatively stable this year but do we start to see – when do we start to see all this investment trend down? Obviously now you're talking about a higher rate on the 737 and does that require an additional step up? Yeah just a question on the CapEx profile.
Thanks.
Sure.
Yeah this year is our peak year Peter.
So it'll start to taper off going forward.
And again it just as you described it some of that's on the productivity initiatives and then on the rate increases.
So this will be our year which obviously as we've said is really tied to the growth in the production rate.
So we'll start to taper off going into 2017 and beyond.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Good.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Dennis and Greg at this time.
If you have any questions following this part of the session please contact our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time this afternoon we ask that you limit everyone to one question only please.
And first in line is Jon Ostrower with The Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi Jon.
Glad we can do this a second time.
A pair of questions actually.
One first for Greg.
Greg I'm curious in terms of returning cash positive on 787 overall.
I'm curious your level of confidence right now in avoiding a forward loss on the 787 program as a whole and whether or not you see the ramping up ahead as a critical event on getting out of the woods as you kind of are able to really measure your level of productivity improvement.
And for Dennis more of a strategic question.
Coming out of 2015 you ended the market share balance with Airbus on single-aisle aircraft for MAX versus 4 400 to 3 100 roughly.
And they just should have number.
I think you guys need to beat Airbus by a 100 orders annually for the next decade and a half roughly to get back to 50%.
I'm just curious what steps you're thinking right now are necessary to redeem that market share parity.
And what are you thinking about from a strategic perspective that's going to be necessary to do that? Okay.
Greg do you want to take the first one there? Yeah Jon as I indicated earlier 787 unit performance is improving.
And obviously we expect that to improve as we come down learning curves as we have on other programs historically.
At the same time implement productivity initiatives whether it's in our supply chain or in our own factories.
And we have plans in place to continue to implement those going forward.
And then obviously we have favorable mix as we look forward as well where we'll have more Dash 9s and Dash 10s as we look to the years to come versus the past.
So no question.
I mean we've got work to do here as we have but I think we've got good plans in place and again solid projects that we've got to go implement and get them matured and get them into the factory.
And Jon to your second question regarding market share and our perspectives on narrow body we remain very confident in the investments we've made in the MAX and its performance in the marketplace.
And I recognize the numbers you pointed out there.
But I think it's important to note that since we launched the MAX it's actually been about 50/50 in terms of orders.
And we also like to make sure we're looking at deliveries of airplanes.
And as noted again we were the market leader in total deliveries again this year.
So when we think about market share it's important to think about both deliveries and future orders.
And as we've had the MAX in the marketplace and competing based on feedback from our customers we see that the MAX is providing a value proposition beyond our competitor's aircraft.
So we feel confident about the MAX and its future prospects.
You see that reflected in our rate ramp up expectations going from the current 42 to 47 52 and as we've announced today going to 57 a month.
We also are mindful that we're going to run a disciplined profitable business.
And so as we think about rate ramp ups we don't simply make decisions based on market share desires.
We make decisions from a long-term perspective what's going to be valuable to our shareholders.
We're going to provide profitable ramp-up and continue to deliver value for our customers.
So I think the performance in the marketplace is speaking for itself and we remain confident in our strategy.
Our next question is from Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my call.
Switching gears just a little bit here the agreement with the engineers was quite a contrast with the machinists and the prior engineers' contract.
The union said they saw a really different approach across the table.
And Dennis I wanted to ask you do you have a different kind of outlook on this? Is this a conscious decision? And if so what's your strategy there? Well thank you for your question.
I think it's important again to go back to some comments I made on our last call.
And that is for the long term we place a very high value on our employees and their talent.
We think it's important to have a mutually respectful relationship and one that recognizes the value that our team brings to the table every day arguably from my viewpoint the best team in the world.
At the same time we all know the competitive realities that we face.
So we have continued to set a tone and a conversation with our work force that as a company as a team we need to recognize the market realities.
We need to be competitive.
And at the same time we want to recognize this great team and treat them with the respect they deserve.
So that's been the tone of our discussions.
That's been reinforced by Ray and his team in Puget Sound.
And together I think we've engaged in what's been a very productive conversation.
We are very supportive of the tentative agreement that's on the table.
And we're hopeful that that'll be ratified by the membership over the next few weeks.
And if so it will provide labor stability and competitiveness for the company for the long-term which will allow us to continue to invest in the future.
And it will recognize the contribution and talent of our employees.
And so we do think it's a good balanced solution.
So we're hopeful that it will be ratified.
And we want to continue to set that tone of mutual respect and the tone of competitiveness and be the market leader for the long run.
And that's part of the commitment that I've made for my end as well.
Our next question's from Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Actually let me ask first for a clarification because I may have misheard something.
And talking about deliveries in 2016 did you say that the 787 would be flat in deliveries compared to last year despite the rate increase that you planned for midyear? Yes.
Just the timing with regards to some of the customer deliveries.
But we expect to be about flat Dominic.
We had a bit of advantageous timing to 2015.
In 2016 that's offset by the ramp up to the 12 a month as planned.
And so those two factors together make it roughly level through the year.
Yes.
Right.
Okay.
And to my question first of all my apologies for getting a detail wrong in my story last night and making the false assumption that you have a charge related to this 777 rate decrease.
But can you help me explain why does the 747 rate decrease of six planes a year result in an $800 million charge and a 777 decrease of 16 a year no charge? Can you just help me explain that? Yeah I mean Dominic the 747 just is not as profitable.
I mean it's that simple where the 777 is a pretty significant contributor to us and operates at a higher margin and is not at risk to being in a reach forward where the 47 was not.
And so that's really the difference between the two programs.
Did you change the accounting block on the 47? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Hi Greg.
Just a quick question.
I wanted to circle back on Q1 free cash flow guidance.
Yeah.
Can you just walk us through what's weighing on cash flow in the first period.
Obviously you see it improving as the year goes on.
And I'm just wondering if it might have been effected by cash advances sliding into Q4 2015.
Yeah no it was not.
If you go back over time you'll see just because of the seasonality of the business whether it's on the commercial side or defense the timing of receipts and expenditures tends to be heavily weighted into the first quarter.
So again if you look back over time you'll see that's either a cash use in the first quarter or breakeven or maybe slightly positive.
So the trend we see into 2016 is no different than that.
And advances aren't really a material driver in that whatsoever.
It's just purely again seasonality and timing around each one of those receipts and then frankly just payments we have to our suppliers.
And our next question is from Glenn Farley with KING TV.
Please go ahead.
How are you guys doing this morning? I am trying to get a better sense for how you or this is – you're looking at a fairly bullish time going ahead even though we're probably dropping back to a book-to-bill ratio of one to one.
But it's fairly optimistic regarding the rest of the global economy considering that the Fed just minutes ago said they were going to keep interest rates unchanged and were going to watch it.
So can you give me a better sense of your confidence level despite the global economic issues that seem to be building? Yeah we will.
And I think your read in that is correct in that we're bullish about our prospects but we're also paying attention to what's happening in the macro environment around us.
If you take a look at GDP projections of about 2.7% growth over the near-term and midterm again that's a balanced view.
That's different in different parts of the world as you well know.
But on balance that's a respectable level for our industry.
The key differentiator is we continue to see passenger growth globally increasing at about 6% to 7% a year.
It is outpacing GDP.
And even in places like China where obviously it's been getting a lot of attention on economic growth prospects even during the fourth quarter of 2015 just as a reference point as GDP in China fell back to a little under 7% airplane and passenger traffic growth increased 15%.
So passenger growth continues to outpace GDP.
That is a strong trend.
It's a long-term trend.
And then that's part of what paints a bit more of a bullish view in terms of our growth prospects.
You see that reflected in our planned production rate increases.
And again we try to be very disciplined about that.
We take a long-term view on these rate increase decisions.
And those are not made lightly.
And we take that balanced view and the fact that we are ramping up should convey our general confidence in the marketplace.
And we'll continue to keep a watchful eye on the macroeconomics.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media this morning.
And that will be from the line of Stephen Trimble with Flightglobal.
Please go ahead.
Yeah I have a question about the 747 rate cut last week and the move to six per year and how long that is sustainable before you have to review that depending on how orders come in.
Especially given this aspiration you've talked about of mid-teens margins.
And I think you talked about how in 2019 you see the 20-year replacement cycle coming into effect.
How long is the six per year sustainable? Yeah Steve that's the decision that we made.
That is a sustainable rate position for that line to bridge us to the 2019 replacement cycle.
And you're right.
When we take a long-term view at the market although cargo has been flattish during this past year at about 2% growth and if we look at near-term projections of about 2% to 3% growth we think that's modest and reasonable.
The production rate announcement we've made factors that in.
As we get to the 2019 timeframe we take a look at the peer replacement market that's out there about 45% of the current fleet will need to be replaced.
I said earlier we'll have 240 large freighters that will be over 20 years old at that point.
So the replacement need is real.
And while the 747 is a niche market it's an important niche market and one that we think is sustainable.
So all of the decisions we've made factor in both the near-term economics as well as this longer-term replacement cycle.
And I think as you said Steve obviously we're watching it closely.
And between this timeframe and the 2019 that Dennis articulated obviously we've got to continue to get orders through that period.
And we have a robust pipeline that the team is working on.
But it's something that obviously we're staying very close to.
It's a great airplane and a tough cargo market.
And we're expecting that to recover and we've got the perfect asset to align to that recovery.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.