Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corp.
Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Melissa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you Melissa.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in our call this morning.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; our Chief Financial Officer David Turner; and also we have available to answer questions Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
In the part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of www.regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found in our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
With that covered I'll turn it over to Grayson Thank you List and good morning to all participants.
We appreciate your time and interest in today's discussion of Regions first quarter 2011 results and the progress we're making in a number of key areas all of which are contributing towards restoring Regions to sustainable profitability.
I'll begin by covering highlights and business results and David will provide additional details on the financials a little later.
Regions reported first quarter earnings of $0.01 from fully diluted share or $17 million marking a second consecutive quarter of profitability while still elevated credit related costs which include our provision OREO expense and losses on halt or sell declined to the lowest level in almost two years.
On an after-tax basis these combined costs were an estimated $0.26 per share.
Additionally we had $0.04 per share benefit from security gains.
Core business performance continues to improve with adjusted pretax pre-provision net revenue up 16% year-over-year.
Sequentially expenses adjusted to exclude prior quarters’ debt extinguishment loss dropped 4%.
The net interest margin rose 7 basis points.
Average commercial and industrial loans outstanding grew 4%.
Average low cost deposits increased 1% and our regulatory capital ratios improved incrementally.
From an earnings perspective we're clearly not performing at a level that we want or need to be but we are making continuous progress.
The pace of economic recovery is slow especially in our southeastern markets but our focus on core business and customers is paying off.
We're gaining share of market adding new customers and expanding existing relationships.
According to a recent report issued by Temkin Group Regions ranked as the top bank of customer experience and is one of the top companies in America for customer service across all industries.
We also received national awards from Greenwich Associates for overall client satisfaction in middle market and for relationship managed performance in the company's small business lending.
We are clearly starting to distinguish Regions as one of the most customer-friendly banks in the industry.
And at the same time we're improving productivity and efficiency in taking steps to expediently and prudently deal with credit challenges still present in our more stressed portfolios.
Turning to Slide 2.
We're especially encouraged with first quarter's sharply lower net loan charge-offs and provision since improvement in credit quality and related costs is a primary key to restoring Regions to sustainable profitability.
Net charge-offs and provision dropped $200 million or 29% linked quarter.
Our provision covered net charge-offs and although is likely to remain elevated it is expected to trend down throughout 2011.
As credit quality metrics continue to improve we'll continue to evaluate reserve levels and be very disciplined in our reserve methodology process.
Gross nonperforming loan inflows were down for a second consecutive quarter or over $200 million less than in the fourth quarter.
Delinquencies fell for a fifth consecutive quarter and criticized and classified loans declined.
Nonperforming assets steady for the first quarter reflecting less sales activity and fewer pay downs.
Again this quarter the mix of profit loan inflows was increasingly income producing commercial real estate which has a lower potential loss severity and based on the cash flows has the potential for restructure.
Also we continue to be very disciplined and cautious in our credit quality reviews; causing us to classify a number of credits as nonperforming when we see signs of weakness even though these customers may be current and paying as agreed.
In the first quarter we further enhanced our balance sheet position.
We were able to grow commercial and industrial loans for the third consecutive quarter as average balances grew 4%.
We remain diligent in improving our deposit costs and continued to positively shift our deposit mix with average time deposits declining to 24% of total deposits down from 30% a year ago.
We ended the quarter strong as well with low cost deposits that which improved $1.9 billion or 3% driving deposit cost down another 5 basis points to an overall 59 basis points on total customer deposits.
And we have achieved a total company funding cost of 86 basis points including all debt.
Growing fee-based revenue in our business is critical it's a component of our strategy to restore and grow normalized earnings.
Given regulatory and legislative changes it's not been an easy task but we believe that our focus on customers service a broad array of product offerings an increasing emphasis on appropriate cross sales gives us an opportunity.
First quarter is typically challenging for fee-based revenues.
Nonetheless we were able to grow adjusted noninterest revenue approximately 4% year-over-year.
Additionally in spite of seasonal factors and regulatory rule changes we were able to maintain reasonably steady service charge income for the first quarter.
While these rules changes will continue to present a challenge to growing service charge fee income we're proactively developing and implementing strategies to mitigate the negative impact.
In fact over the last three quarters we have migrated all free checking accounts to fee eligible accounts.
Specifically regarding the Durbin amendment we are hopeful that the candid dialogue between regulators legislators merchants and banks result in a reasonable and prudent delay of the implementation of this amendment and allows proper debate and comprehensive analysis by delaying implementation it will give all interested parties more time to analyze pricing and consequences of proposal.
We are hopeful that the outcome will be more rational in the plan currently proposed.
One that not only takes into account the bank industries actual cost of delivering debit cards including fraud but also the potential unintended negative consequences to the individual consumer on debit card availability and participation in the banking system.
In the unfortunate event that a reasonable and prudent delay does not occur we have developed actions to respond to the July 21st implementation that helps us mitigate the financial impact of these require changes.
Given the extremely short time frame for implementation it will be challenging to effectively communicate the changes to our customers and our associates.
But we know our customers and our markets very well and we remain confident that over time we can make the necessary changes to protect our business.
Our planned business adjustments not only include changes to fee schedules but also include new product innovation and a very disciplined approach in improving productivity and efficiency.
I'm pleased with the progress we've made in the first quarter given the seasonal hikes in payroll taxes our goal is to keep full-year noninterest expenses core expenses somewhat below 2010's level while continuing to make necessary investments in business and technology.
Turning to Slide 3.
We are seeing promising improvement in quality loan demand as total loan production amounted to $13.3 billion for the quarter up 15% year-over-year.
Our Business Services loan production for the first quarter totaled $11.1 billion which was a 17% increase over first quarter of 2010.
We are seeing especially strong middle market commercial and industrial loan production as loan outstandings have now grown for 9 consecutive months.
Notably of 65% of the markets we operate grew commercial loans in the first quarter.
Both new client acquisition and line utilization are driving the growth.
Commercial and industrial line utilization rose to 41.7% this quarter up from year-end 2010's 40.3% which is the highest since September 2009.
However line utilization still remains well below our historical rates which typically posted in the high 40% range.
Our overall commercial sales pipelines remain strong given expectations for a continued U.S.
economic recovery Commercial &amp; Industrial outstanding should continue to grow throughout 2011 albeit possibly at a slower pace than we're currently experiencing.
Branch small business loan production while still a relatively small component is also strong benefiting from our increased focus on this channel.
On the consumer front although pay downs continue to outweigh new production as consumers continue to deleverage we are seeing signs of an improving loan production.
Consumer loan production for the first quarter was higher year-over-year with the largest components mortgage and home equity up 13% and 12% respectively.
Also we are experiencing higher origination volume in our indirect auto portfolio as production rose to $255 million this quarter.
We have now signed up over 800 auto dealerships and expect this number to reach 1 200 by the end of the year but keep in mind that our focus is on profitable growth not volume.
We will remain disciplined both in risk taking and pricing.
At the same time we're working hard to grow profitable quality loans outstanding.
We are still actively derisking our most stressful portfolio segments.
For example investor commercial estate loans were reduced another $1.1 billion in the first quarter.
Our de-risking strategy and customer deleveraging suggested our overall outstanding loan portfolio balances will remain under pressure for the remainder of this year.
Near-term our lending revenues will be under pressure but our efforts to improve pricing and production of new loans is working to offset the impact of derisking and deleveraging.
We continue to positively shift loan and funding mix as well as improve loan spreads and deposit costs in order to minimize the negative effect of a lower earning asset levels on this year's net interest income.
On a final point regarding recent comprehensive capital analysis and review I want to reiterate that Regions did not propose any immediate capital actions.
The company's position of repaying the government's TARP investment in a prudent and patient manner on shareholder friendly terms remains unchanged.
Our return to sustainable profitability in demonstrating improvement asset quality are key conditions that will enable reasonable repayment.
As our core business continues to improve we believe this will bode well for us and our eventual capital actions.
Now David is going to provide you with financial details and I will return with some closing comments.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
Let's begin with a summary of our first quarter 2011 results on Slide 4.
First quarter results generally matched our expectations as efforts to improve credit quality reposition the balance sheet and curb operating expenses continued to pay off.
EPS was $0.01 per share and net income available to common shareholders amounted to $17 million.
Pretax pre-provision net revenue or PPNR totaled $539 million.
However on an adjusted basis PPNR was $460 million which included some net adjustments such as security gains which is detailed in the appendix.
Adjusted PPNR was up $63 million or 16% year-over-year and flat linked quarter despite seasonal factors such as day count.
Within PPNR net interest income declined 2% linked quarter primarily due to seasonality.
However year-over-year net interest income rose 4% and the resulting net interest margin expanded to 3.07%.
Noninterest revenue totaled $843 million while adjusted noninterest revenues were $764 million.
This was 4% below the fourth quarter which benefited from Morgan Keegan's strong revenues particularly investment banking.
However as Grayson mentioned first quarter adjusted noninterest revenues were higher than a year ago by 4% or $30 million.
Noninterest expenses were 8% lower than the prior quarter and on an adjusted basis demonstrated significant improvement dropping $44 million or 4% fourth to first quarter favorably impacted by decline in the legal and professional fees as well as credit-related expenses.
Let's now take a more detailed look at our credit results beginning with nonperforming loans inflows.
As shown on Slide 5 inflow of nonperforming loans continued to moderate declining $217 million to $730 million or 23% less than fourth quarter.
On the chart on the left as indicated in blue the biggest decline in inflows was in our Land/Condo and Single Family portfolio which decreased $168 million or 64% linked quarter.
This portfolio which now totals only $2.8 billion down from $5 billion a year ago had historically been the biggest driver of our inflows.
Income producing commercial real estate continues to contribute to our nonperforming loan inflows accounting for 31% of first quarter's migration compared to 29% in the fourth quarter.
Keep in mind that income-producing commercial real estate credits generally provide greater cash flows and therefore may result in restructuring opportunities and in our experience have less ultimate loss potential.
A substantial portion of our nonperforming loans continues to be current and paying as agreed.
Notably 38% of our March 31 total business service nonperforming loans were current and paying as agreed up slightly from the fourth quarter but 10 percentage points higher than a year ago.
Turning to Slide 6.
Nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale declined $73 million.
This quarter we sold fewer nonperforming assets or $219 million compared to $405 million in the fourth quarter.
At this point in the cycle and with stabilizing real estate values we believe that loan restructurings will become more economical than loan sales.
The graph to the right shows that delinquencies dropped for the fourth straight quarter.
Additionally criticized and classified problem loans declined for the fifth consecutive quarter and were down approximately $700 million from fourth quarter's levels.
These two asset quality indicators serve as important measures in estimating future inflows of problem loans and support our expectations for continued improvement in nonperforming loan migrations going forward.
Moving on to Slide 7.
Net charge-offs declined to $481 million or an annualized 2.37% of average loans.
The lowest level in over two years.
As our loan loss provision essentially matched net charge-offs and with the decline in nonperforming loans our loan loss allowance to nonperforming loan ratio increased from 101% to 103% at March 31st.
Declines in nonperforming loans in gross inflows and nonperforming loan balances will be key determinants of our future quarterly provision needs.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Slide 8 breaks down this quarter's change in loans and loan yields.
Average loans declined 2% with Investor Real Estate portfolio derisking efforts offsetting strong middle market commercial and industrial growth.
Aggregate loan yield declined three basis points to 4.31%.
This decline was driven by interest rate hedges that matured during the first quarter.
Excluding these hedges our loan yield would have been slightly higher as we remain very disciplined when pricing new loans being sure that we are appropriately paid for the risk we are taking.
We continue to see strength in our middle market Commercial and Industrial loan portfolio with average and ending loans up 4% and 3% linked quarter respectively.
Demand is broad-based from both an industry and market standpoint.
Our customers increasing investment in capital expenditures and M&amp;A activities are driving much of our commercial growth.
In addition we are also beginning to see customers increase inventory investments primarily due to rising commodity prices.
Total Commercial and Industrial commitments rose $700 million linked quarter to $27 billion at March 31st.
Our commercial and industrial line utilization rates are just over 41% which is well below our historical norm.
In fact 25% of our Business Services customers with a commitment have zero outstanding balances.
We continue to make progress in derisking our Investor Real Estate portfolio with ending outstandings declining another $1.1 billion in the first quarter to $14.8 billion.
Over the past 12 months we have reduced this portfolio almost $6 billion including a 60% decline in construction.
Reducing our Investor Real Estate portfolio to no more than 100% of the bank's total regulatory capital or approximately $14 billion has been top priority.
Additionally going forward we will continue to assess the appropriateness of this target.
As noted on Slide 9 ending an average deposits were up 2% and 1% respectively driven by strong low cost deposit growth.
Over the past 12 months average low cost deposits have risen 6% compared to a 23% drop in time deposits.
This positive mix shift continued in the first quarter producing another 5 basis point decline in our overall deposit cost to 59 basis points.
Our shift in funding mix to low cost deposits is also favorably impacting total funding costs which declined 5 basis points to 86 basis points.
Turning to Slide 10.
Taxable equivalent net interest income declined $14 million linked quarter or 2% primarily due to fewer days in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
However net interest income was up 4% over the same period in the prior year.
Additionally the first quarter net interest margin improved 7 basis points to 3.07% and was attributable to slower prepayments resulting in lower premium amortization in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio lower deposit cost and reduced average cash balances at the Federal Reserve.
We continued to reprice our CDs at market rates and in the second quarter we have an additional $3.6 billion of CDs maturing that carry an average rate of 2.16%.
While excess liquidity remains a drag on the margin the effect is gradually diminishing.
Excess liquidity negatively impacted the margin 10 basis points this quarter down from fourth quarter's 11 basis points.
In addition nonaccrual interest reversals and nonperforming asset balances reduced first quarter's margin 16 basis points.
During the first quarter we executed sales of $2.4 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities resulting in $82 million of security gains the proceeds of which were reinvested in similar securities with slightly longer duration.
Barring unexpected movement in interest rates we expect our net interest margin to be relatively stable for the balance of this year.
Let's now shift gears and look at noninterest revenue on Slide 11.
Total noninterest revenue amounted to $843 million for the quarter and on an adjusted basis totaled $764 million compared to an adjusted basis of $795 million in the fourth quarter.
Adjustments in the first quarter primarily included $82 million of security gains.
And in the fourth quarter included $333 million of security gains $26 million of loan sale gains and $59 million of leverage lease termination gains all of which is detailed in the appendix.
Although adjusted noninterest revenues grew 4% year-over-year they were down linked quarter primarily due to a 14% drop in brokerage and investment banking revenues as well as seasonal adjustments for day count.
As you may recall Morgan Keegan's fourth quarter revenues benefited from several sizable investment banking transactions.
In spite of seasonal challenges and regulatory changes service charges were down only slightly linked quarter.
Our customer focus and superior service quality are continuing to produce strong debit card volume and excellent fee-based account growth.
Depending on ultimate regulatory changes related to interchange fees and implementation timing we face fee income challenges in 2011.
However we have developed mitigation strategies to rationalize our business under the proposed rule changes.
For instance we began migrating accounts from free to fee eligible last May and now all of our checking accounts are fee eligible.
Also our quality accounts which we defined as at least 10 customer transactions and over $500 in average balances per month increased 2.2% this quarter when compared to the same period a year ago.
And we continued to see a record level of penetration with our new checking account customers who are electing to have a debit card 90% of the time.
Although mortgage originations were down on a linked quarter basis resulting in a $6 million decline in mortgage income they remain strong compared to historical standards and were 13% higher compared to the same period a year ago.
Turning to Slide 12.
First quarter expenses were down despite the seasonal jump in payroll costs.
Total noninterest expense was $1.167 billion for the quarter or 8% lower than the prior quarter.
Excluding adjustments in the fourth quarter as detailed in our appendix adjusted noninterest expenses dropped 4% linked quarter.
This was driven by declines in credit related expenses such as other real estate expense which declined 36% to $39 million.
Also contributing to this decline were professional and legal fees which were down $11 million or 12%.
Nonetheless credit related expenses remained significant accounting for 6% of first quarter adjusted noninterest expenses.
Over time we expect these expenses which have been approximating $300 million to $400 million annually to subside.
We remain focused on strengthening our core franchise through productivity and efficiency initiatives.
As the chart on the bottom illustrates we have reduced our headcount over 3 000 positions or 10% in the last 2 years.
We will continue to rationalize our franchise constraining expense growth without sacrificing investment opportunities.
Slide 13 provides a snapshot of our healthy capital ratios and favorable liquidity position.
Tier 1 Common is 7.9% and our Tier 1 ratio stands at 12.5%.
Liquidity in both the bank and the holding company is solid as we have a bank loan to deposit ratio of 84.4% and cash at the parent company is above our policy minimum of maintaining a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs which includes all of debt service dividends and maturities for the next 2 years.
Overall this quarter's results provide solid evidence that our actions are moving us toward our goal of sustainable profitability.
Now let me turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thanks David.
In summary we are making progress and showing signs of improvement through solid core business performance which included growth in commercial loans continued improvement in loan cost deposits and margin expansion.
We will be persistent in further improving productivity and efficiency and even though credit costs remained elevated we are committed to expediently and prudently dealing with our lagging credit challenges I'll walk you in by emphasizing that our strategy for restoring Regions to sustainable profitability is working.
Recovery and rebuilding take time but with each quarter that passes we are making progress.
We believe that by keeping focused on the customer and our business fundamentals that Regions franchise has the markets the customers the associates the talent and products to over time generate attractive high-quality returns for our shareholders.
We are making prompt and necessary adjustments to our business models to deliver innovation in terms of products service quality and value.
We appreciate your time this morning.
We will open the lines up for questions after a brief administrative comment from List Underwood.
List? Thank you Grayson.
We'd like to ask that in the question-and-answer session that you please limit your questions to one primary and one follow-up question per caller.
This will help us accommodate all the callers given the total 1 hour timeframe allotted for the call.
Thank you in advance for your cooperation.
Operator let's open it up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question is on the rising mortgage TDRs.
Barb I was wondering if you could give us an update on how the redefault rate is trending and whether or not you're getting more new requests or you're reaching out more to your customers to restructure some of the firsts? I think you're -- yes we are continuing to reach out to customers and our rescissions rate is actually running at 20% a little bit down from what it was last quarter but still holding within that 20% to 22% that we reported through all prior quarters.
But we still have a very active customer assistance program.
Also making sure we're going out and also reappraising the book.
And my follow-up question is David on your comment that loan restructuring is now more economically attractive than loan sales should we expect your TDR bucket to continue to increase but sort of the NPL decline and the associated charge-off would be the same? But I guess restructuring in A B fashion gets you to recover more or retain more than if you had sold it in the secondary market as a note or -- am I reading that correctly? Yes I think the -- what I'm saying is we expect that restructurings generally would result in better economics for us because you're not having to pay for the liquidity that you're providing provided when you sell a loan.
So as a result of restructurings if we continue down that path you should see increases in TDRs as a result.
But the charge-offs we would expect to be mitigated to some degree versus a straight up sale.
We would do an A B note for restructure as you've mentioned and continue to have economics with the whole credit versus selling it so that provides better opportunity for us to have a recovery and we realize we also continue to have credit risk associated with that note.
So we're careful on the restructurings and that we'll do that when we think the overall economics are in our best interest.
Your next question comes from Brian Foran of Numora.
On the expense guidance I guess first just to clarify when you say full year '11 expenses flat relative to 2010 excluding debt extinguishment so that's $4.9 billion is the expectation for this year's expenses? But what was said is as David says in time on a core basis when you cut out the one time that we believe our overall noninterest expense would be flat to trend somewhat down from where we were in 2010 on a core basis.
And then I guess looking further out I mean post the AmSouth Regions deal it seems like at some point expenses would get down to like $1 billion a  quarter and I realized a lot of time has passed since then and there's investments that are required and everything like that.
But I mean how should we think about the long-term expense basis? Is there an opportunity at some point that kind of realize the efficiencies that were pent-up in the merger? Yes I mean we Brian to you full we recognized a lot of the efficiencies but given the cycle that we're in we do believe there's more savings there.
We've mentioned that we’re incurring in a $300 million to $400 million per year with just credit related expenses right now that we both believe will go away as credit continues to improve.
We do have further efficiencies as we think about rationalizing our markets and rationalizing our business that we can continue to execute on when the time is right to do things like that.
So you can see our number in the first quarter on an adjusted basis was $1.167 billion and you could affect that for roughly $75 million to $100 million just with credit related expenses.
So we do have efficiencies on top of that to come.
Well we are still driving efficiencies to our business.
We were down over another 250 positions from a headcount perspective in the first quarter over our fourth quarter and we're continuing to achieve quite a bit of the system efficiencies across a number of discretionary spending categories and we'll continue to do that going forward.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
[Technical Difficulty] Just the overall the C&amp;I loans have been growing nicely the past I think three quarters but we are hearing about some price competition out there in that area.
I'm just wondering what kind of spreads that you're seeing in the C&amp;I bucket and how that compares to a few quarters ago? Yes I mean there's no doubt that there are in the commercial and industrial space there's certain segments in that that have clearly become more competitive.
I would tell you that when you look at it in terms of spreads and yields we still are seeing an improved level of spreads and yields on our new production on commercial and industrial over and above what we were getting.
It has gotten more competitive.
You do hear of transactions that would indicate that there's a lot of spread and yield compression on some of these new transactions but I would tell you that when you hear those anecdotally but when we dig in to the data and we really analyzed what we're putting on the books we're still very pleased that we are getting compensated for the risk we're taking and are pleased with the spreads and yields that we're able to achieve.
I'd also add that when we think about the footprint that we operate in and really focus on service quality and the relationships that we're building with our customers that relationship allows you to not just sell on price.
We don't want to be a volume-price institution.
We want to be providing proper service fair price.
We want the relationship because we want the total customer not just the loan and that we're able to we think being we're able to maintain the spreads that we need even though there's stronger competition out there.
The commercial middle market small business really provides an opportunity to really work through the relationship and get paid per link.
Okay and we can obviously see some of that in the average loan yields overall which have been stable even though the loan mix has been derisking here so that makes sense.
And then just my follow-up question if we look at the NPA reconciliation table the resolutions and return to accruals came down a bit versus the last couple of quarters and I'm just wondering if there is some seasonality there or is it just there are a couple of good quarters there in 3Q? Yes I'll ask Barb to answer that directly.
But there is some timing issues that fall into that regard as we started working on restructurings with some of our business customers that in this particular quarter we had less of those that were seasoned to a point to return the accrual than in prior quarters.
Barb? Yes in addition to that third and fourth quarters are normally our seasonal highs and roughly I already pointed out for restructures reaccruels we wait up audited financial statements.
We typically don't get most of our audited financial statements then until sometime late in the first quarter into the second quarter again that's providing an opportunity for the restructures in the third and fourth quarter.
And then some good news is that several accounts that we were planning to actually reaccrue actually paid us off in full.
So again I'll take that trade-off as well.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> It seems like that we're starting to put some numbers out there to help us gauge around what normalized earnings would look like with the credit costs and the provisioning I was trying to kind of step wise from what you were saying to try to get to maybe where you're kind of guiding us in a range.
If I take the earnings this quarter and back out the security gains that puts us at about a $0.03 loss.
You didn't go through the credit costs of $0.26 so that puts us at about a $0.23 profit or about $0.92 a year.
And then in addition to that we can add about $0.15 if we improved our margin bout 25 basis points from where we're at.
So that would put us somewhere around $1.07 or at least north of $1.
David how are you thinking about that and what are your kind of giving us some clues just wanted to try to cobble them together in the overall thought process.
The cobbled was right.
We are trying to give you -- obviously we're not going to give you earnings guidance but we're going to give you bits and pieces.
It's still obviously a very fragile economy.
You can kind of look at our PPNR overtime and see where that you ought to be -- if you stay at that level you can actually get pretty close to where you think our projected PPNR will be.
And the story for us in terms of ultimate profitability is what credit looks like.
We certainly are making progress on migration and early and late stage delinquencies and those trends and potential problems all of those are trending better and we're feeling better about credit.
We still have a robust reserve and see strong coverage in nonperformers so we're adequately reserved there.
And I think just as our charge-offs continue to improve then you can start -- that's the key as to what will that look like in a "normalized world "and when will it be normal.
So I think we've given you some tidbits.
Your math you're going through is reasonable but we have to -- we're going to stop short of giving specific guidance.
LLC</strong> And then my 1 follow up will be when you're talking about credit costs and the $0.26 per share and that includes loan loss provisioning are you putting that to a normalized level or are you just backing out all provision? Yes.
We're backing out this -- what happened to this quarter backing it all out.
LLC</strong> So that would not be a normalized level but would be all of the provisioning that you have this quarter.
That's right.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Can you talk as well about the potential problem loan number was for the quarter? I know you just indicated that it was trending better but do you have that amount? And then also how that may convey into your outlook for NPAs here just given the decline in flows this quarter? I'll start and let Barb finish up with the other part.
Our potential problem loan number that was in our annual report was about $800 million and then you saw our migration of $730 million during the quarter.
We are actually in the process of pulling that potential problem loan together.
It will be in our first quarter 10-Q which we expect to file the first week in May.
So we don't have that number yet but in terms of trends and NPAs Barb? Yes what we would look at is for example our 90-day plus as you can see that 90-day plus number was down our criticized number was down our plus [indiscernible] number was down.
I would anticipate that our potential problem loan number will likely follow that same trend but again we don't have both numbers pulled together yet.
But all of the signs are saying that a little more positive than what we've seen previously.
Okay.
And then my follow-up is that being said can you talk to us about your thought process around when you can start to see the ability to under provide here and release some reserves.
I know you had mentioned before that you didn’t see some sustainability in terms of credit trends it looks we're starting to see that here.
So could we expect some under provisioning materializing next quarter? Well we haven't mentioned specific quarters in terms of when that would happen.
What we tried to do is give you the things we look at that we think are the biggest drivers and that obviously is our nonperforming loan migration and then our resulting nonperforming loan balances those are key influences on our methodology.
We have been and we'll continue to be prudent with regards to how we establish the reserve and we will follow that methodology and what it indicates that we can provide less than our charge-offs we'll do so.
But we are going to be cautious and prudent with regards to what we ultimately do.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Just really a thought to my second question on the NPL resolutions it looks like where really slow resolutions kind of drove the lack of improvement NPL balances this quarter and it sounds like from your kind of answers that the 1Q run rate was fairly clean.
So what I'm wondering is how do you expect NPLs over the next quarter to decline? Is it really from lower inflows? Because if we don't get higher resolutions at this point it will be tougher balances to decline? No we actually do anticipate resolutions to go up.
What we think about there they’re seasonal number 1.
And number 2 as Grayson had mentioned there's a six-month seasoning period for any that we have gone ahead and restructuring before we can actually put them back to performing status.
So we see all of that as we look on our pipelines we see some opportunities that are existing in there right now for us.
And I would add to that if you look at the release we actually sold this time roughly $219 million of problem assets and all from $405 million last quarter.
We're being much more disciplined around the economics of those sales.
First quarter appeared a little seasonally low from where we would have anticipated coming in.
We are going to continue that disposition strategy but we're going to balance it as David said and Barb has said with more focus on restructuring but we're going to continue to dispose.
And we do think that there are a number of seasonal factors that drove our nonperforming assets and nonperforming loans to not come down more than they did this quarter and we would anticipate an improvement in that going forward.
Just one follow-up from myself is that in some of our normal loan sales we have some what we call retrading that happened at the end of the quarter where we had some of the buyers come back and want to talk about terms and structures and we decided to step away from some of those conversations and have those conversations again this quarter instead of just going in and executing it at potentially a lower price or a poor loan structure than we otherwise would have done last quarter.
Well the other thing you can't see is in the numbers the number of notes that we sold the number of properties that we sold this quarter was actually more than we sold in the fourth quarter because as we have been on this disposition strategy for some time we're getting down to smaller and smaller dollar value assets.
And they still take roughly the same amount of time regardless of the dollar value but we actually moved more properties this quarter than last.
Got it.
And then just a follow-up given kind of two quarters here of profitability given your expectations for NPA balances to decline then I'm wondering how does this change kind of your expectation for TARP repayment? Well it really doesn't change.
We are clearly focused on making sure we sustain our profitability and that we show a clear turn in credit.
We believe that that's the appropriate thing for us to do and we're going to let results speak for themselves.
But our strategy really has not changed at this juncture.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I was hoping I heard your comments about the fact that loans -- there'll continue to be net pressure on loans.
But I'm just wondering with the -- there hasn't really been a change in the Delta on the loan shrinkage side.
And I'm wondering if you could help us understand how low can low go? Meaning do you have an understanding of where you think the bottom will be before that C&amp;I growth and the stabilization of some of the runoff levels out? Yes I’ll tell you in kind of global terms what we've been saying is we expect the total loan balances to drip down a little bit in the first half of the year have a little bit of recovery in the second half such that we come close to finishing about where we started.
So I think what we're going to do is we're going to continue to derisk on the Investor Real Estate.
That has slowed somewhat last year I think our average was about $1.5 billion a quarter.
This past quarter we're at about $1.1 billion.
So we see that decline slowing somewhat and we have had growth in C&amp;I for 9 months.
We'll see some seasonality and slowness in the first part of the year here and it'll finish stronger in the second half.
So all that is predicated on where the economy goes.
So that's our best guess on total loan balances right now.
Because in our internal forecast we still got a fairly modest economic growth factor that we're looking at and so when we're making internal projections on loan growth.
We're being prudent and conservative in that regard.
We're trying to judge on total outstanding loans we're trying to judge really 3 issues is 1 how much new production on both the business and consumer side will we be able to generate? Those numbers are encouraging our production numbers are up substantially across every line of business.
We're also trying to judge just exactly what the pace of decline on the investor commercial real estate portfolio will be.
We've made several projections and as David said it has slowed but we still are reducing the size of that portfolio substantially.
It has exceeded our earlier expectations for where what we will be today.
We are still seeing the 3rd issue is consumer deleveraging.
When the consumers stops deleveraging or slows down that deleveraging process then we'll start to see some decent growth on the consumer loan side of our business and we are introducing new products and we'll be over the next several months to try to grow that consumer side of our business and we said before we really would like to get to sort of a 50-50 mix between business and consumer loans on our balance sheet.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And then Grayson you said on part of my follow-up which is within the CRE business understanding the 100% of equity limitation that you mentioned earlier first of all I guess are you seeing any gross loan opportunities start to percolate in the CRE side? And is that 100% limit any type of major limit on your ability to kind of reengage in the CRE market? I think that several months ago we came out with an internal goal of reducing that portfolio to no more than 100% of risk based capital.
And we'll achieve that this year and feel pretty confident in where we'll be quite frankly we have the other concern.
Our concern is while we are seeing some opportunities in investor commercial real estate space they are very limited and we are not seeing new production opportunities rebound with any materiality and if they don't then we'll see that portfolio decline below that $14 billion mark which is not a problem and as David said in his comments we continue to reassess just exactly what our targeted outstandings in that business should be going forward.
Your next question comes from Scott Valentin of FBR.
Just with regard to potential com equity level [common equity] it slipped just a tad below 6%.
And was curious and I guess your comfort level there and whether there’s any type of decision to consciously grow that level back up? Yes I mean from a capital standpoint obviously we're impacted by the unrealized gain or loss changes as a result of the 10-year moving around.
We really focus and run our business looking at Tier 1 common as the predominant capital measure.
We're at 7.9% there.
We dipped just below 6% on the tangible side but we don't see anything that causes us concern that makes us want to believe we need to raise capital outside of the TARP repayment.
That's been our consistent theme throughout the quarters but we’ll receive that question and it’s true today.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question if I may on the Securities portfolio I think it grew pretty substantially this quarter from the fourth quarter and I think you also referenced the fact that duration increased a little bit.
I'm just curious if you can give some color around what's happening in the Securities portfolio? Yes we obviously when you don't have a tremendous amount of growth in loan portfolio you have to put cash somewhere so we're in the securities book and it's higher than what we want it to be.
We have it in a safe investment portfolio take very little credit risk there.
We primarily have used that for liquidity.
But we will -- you can't just look at the duration of the investment portfolio you really have to look at the construct of our entire balance sheet.
So we're very cognizant of the duration and the risk that is embedded in that with the risk of a rising rate environment and when we see the opportune time we'll reposition and put those to work securities to work differently.
So I think right now we think it's the right answer but we are looking very closely at it and as opportunities arise we'll make different decisions.
Your next question comes from Greg Ketron of Citigroup.
A couple of questions.
1 on mortgage income it looks like your mortgage income held up better than what we've been seeing across the industry which has been down anywhere from 30% to 40% maybe just some color on why your mortgage income levels held up better.
Yes I mean when you look at the mortgages no doubt we're starting to see a drop in application volume which is typical to see this time of year as a seasonal issue.
But we actually saw mortgage bookings ahead of where we were last year.
We are seeing a shift from refinancings to the new home purchase refinancings dropped this particular quarter just over 50% 51% I believe was the exact number and that's down substantially from where it was at last quarter.
We are not as rates have increased.
We're not seeing the kind of application volume we were seeing but in the first quarter we had strong results really for work that we had established late in the fourth quarter and we are gaining share on a number of competitors in our market and I think this next quarter's really going to tell the story because I mean typically in the second and third quarter your biggest quarters for mortgage origination and we're really going to find out what that market's going to do in the next quarter or so.
Encouraged by where we're at the concern with the declining level of application volume.
Greg it's David.
I think that maybe some of the peers have purchases than the losses associated with repurchase in that mortgage income line item.
We actually account for that in our NIE and that number is pretty small for us.
We hadn't gotten caught up in the issue that others have had.
So imagine repurchased losses for others have been more significant and probably netting down mortgage income.
And ours are up slightly but still way below peer.
Okay great appreciate the color.
And then David just a follow-up on the $300 million to $400 million of credit expenses if you were to normalize that number what level would that be longer-term? Well I think that if you look at a large percentage of that $300 million or $400 million ought to go away in time and the question is when.
So it won't be every dollar-per-dollar.
But it will be substantial majority of that number we think in time will go away.
Okay.
So it could approach close to 0 or something pretty insignificant? Well you would have you would have to use -- I'll give you the substantial majority of that ought to go away.
Your next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni of Compass.
On the OREO side could you give us a little more color around how OREO expenses decreased quarter-over-quarter given the fall in home price HPIs increased foreclosure timelines and general amount of disturbance and the foreclosure industry? Yes I think that I'll let Barb follow-up but from an expense standpoint there's really 2 components to drive that expense.
1 is just your normal operations taxes and property maintenance and those kinds of things which is a smaller piece of that total and the others are valuation declines and so we think when we take charges because we foreclose something that's running through our charge-off number so what you see there are any subsequent valuation changes and we've seen those valuation depending on what markets you're in we see some of the valuation starting to stabilize others are not and that's why you see the number we have at $39 million.
But Barb anything you want to add? Well my follow-up would be if you looked again to last quarter it was $61 million and compared that to $39 million this quarter.
And that in and of itself was primarily made up of the difference in the valuation charges.
Property preservation expenses have stayed relatively flat on properties we have.
And again as you said foreclosure timelines are extended.
They're still running somewhere around that 20 22 month mark in Florida and again that leads into our numbers as you've seen.
And what's your policy to reevaluate those assets while they're in OREO again? We do them on a 6-month basis.
And then there's kind of...
Well we do that on a 6-month basis but if we evaluate property and there's one next door to it then we'll use that particular appraisal as an indicator of valuation of the other properties.
So it's a little misleading just to say  6 months because it's incumbent upon us to get the mark right every quarter.
Okay.
And then kind of in the same breath as OREO do you participate in any of the OREO exchange programs that were outlined by the OCC in their March 24th letter? No we don't.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Just a quick question on C&amp;I I wanted to understand where you're seeing the demand the types of products that you're seeing and then obviously your C&amp;I is going up in a flattish market environment so I wanted to understand that.
If you look at it really as I mentioned a moment ago it's a combination of increased line utilization which has been an encouraging sign as we saw little bit of our commercial industrial customer starting to access those lines.
We had initially thought that they would access their liquidity that they're keeping with us and depository accounts before they started accessing the lines.
It appears that’s not happening that they're accessing the lines and holding the liquidity.
When you look at the products that when you look at the reasons why that as we said earlier you're seeing some capital expenditure activity that had been put off for quite some time and now they're at the juncture that they are spending again for capital projects.
In addition we're seeing quite a bit of M&amp;A activity.
They're using the opportunity to acquire assets and competitors in what has turned out to be a slow recovery environment.
I'd also mention that we got a number of specialty industries that continue to show strength.
We've mentioned them in the past.
I would say the strongest of that group right now is in the Energy sector but we also are seeing strength in Transportation and Healthcare has been sort of a solid performer for us all along.
It continues to perform and those are the segments that predominantly we're seeing the opportunities in.
Okay.
And then as -- on the credit side for C&amp;I and CRE alike obviously a big function down in your NCOs this quarter just wanted to understand on the CRE side was that related to any specific lumpiness in the prior quarters? Are you now at a run rate to continue to improve from here or do you see that there's still some lumpy exposures in there that could drive that number to be volatile? There's still going to be some lumpy exposures certainly a lot less volatility a lot less product relative to the outstanding balances.
What we did see is that the land single-family and condo they contributed to the -- in migration fell pretty dramatically between quarters.
It's going to bounce around a little bit as we come out of this.
As one can expect but we do again see some volatility on those numbers.
Your final question comes from Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I want to ask you about the regulatory detail; it looks like a small amount $40 million was disallowed this quarter.
I wondered if that was just driven by a lower forecast earnings or it hit some sort of limitation? It was primarily driven by the fact that if you look at the gross number it was up $80 million so $40 million of that was counted in capital and $40 million was disallowed just based on the math.
So it really wasn't a dramatic change.
We also went over a year or so.
There's some impact to the tax credits that we have in terms of how the math works on the allowance calculation but really look at the gross going up $80 million and half of that going into the calculations being the big driver.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you that's helpful I guess with that answer I suppose there's no read through to the potential of GAAP DTA change there? Right.
There's no issue from our perspective in terms of realization from a GAAP basis.
Well we thank everyone for your time and participation this morning and that this will conclude our meeting.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corp.
Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Melissa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in our call this morning.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; our Chief Financial Officer David Turner; and also here and available to answer questions is Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results and other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
With that said let me now turn it over to our President CEO Grayson Hall.
Thank you List and good morning to all participants.
We appreciate your time and interest and welcome everyone to Regions Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
I'll begin today's call by covering highlights and business results then David Turner will provide additional details on the financials a little later.
Regions second quarter 2011 results further demonstrate that we are executing our business plans and making substantial progress.
Regions earned $55 million or $0.04 per diluted share marking the third consecutive quarter of profitability.
Core business performance continued to improve as core pretax pre-provision net revenue rose to $500 million the highest level since the third quarter of 2008.
We continued to see improvement in quality loan demand as we originated $16.7 billion in new or renewed loans and commitments a 26% increase from first quarter's 2011 $13.3 billion.
Credit related costs which include our loan loss provision OREO expense and held-for-sale losses declined to a 2-year low or an estimated $0.22 per share after tax.
Additionally Morgan Keegan reached a settlement with the SEC FINRA and state regulators that financial impact on second quarter earnings related to the $210 million settlement was a $44 million tax benefit on a portion of settlement which had previously accrued to nondeductible.
Furthermore with respect to Morgan Keegan we also announced our intention to explore strategic alternatives.
As a result of this decision we announced the formation of a new wealth management organization that will integrate trust private banking and insurance business into a single business within the bank.
Establishing this new organization enables us to focus on key profitable customer segment with the goal of increasing noninterest revenue deepening customer relationships and enhancing values.
During the quarter we repositioned our investment securities portfolio shortening the duration resulting in approximately $24 million in security gains or $0.01 per share after tax.
On the expense front as a continued focus on productivity and efficiency initiatives we made the decision this quarter to consolidate approximately 40 branches and to dispose off property and equipment resulting in charges of $77 million or $0.04 per share.
Sequentially net interest income was steady.
And fee revenues reflected lower brokerage income offset by robust service charge income.
Noninterest expenses adjusted for the $77 million in charges declined 4% first to second quarter demonstrating disciplined execution in our efforts to improve productivity and efficiency.
Recent macroeconomic indicators reveals further weakness and uncertainty in the economy and we continue to experience an uneven recovery particularly in the Southeast.
However these economic and global risk concerns do not lead to material changes in our economic outlook of below trend growth.
We continue to focus on what we can control in this environment delivering continued improvement in our operating results and long-term franchise value.
Our plan focuses on servicing our customers enhancing enterprisewide risk management and building sustainable profitability.
Building sustainable profitability starts with continued improvements in asset quality.
Key credit metrics continue to improve as formation of nonperforming loans are down for the third consecutive quarter.
And nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale have declined 5 quarters in a row.
The loan loss provision was down 17% linked quarter and business services criticized loans decreased another 14%.
Notably our Investor Real Estate portfolio has now been reduced to $13.4 billion nearly 50% below 2011 -- 2006 level.
In addition to credit quality core business performance continues to improve.
We are targeting a more diversified balanced and profitable business mix.
As of June 30 business services accounted for approximately 61% of our loan portfolio and consumer services comprises 39%.
Over time we are targeting a better balance with a focus on building the generally higher margin consumer portfolio and appropriate pricing on our business services portfolio.
Although consumers continue to deleverage our consumer services loan production was 14% higher year-to-date 2011 compared to 2010 and 8% higher on linked quarter basis led by an increase in mortgage indirect auto and direct lending.
Indirect auto was particularly strong as production rose to $291 million in the second quarter or 14% higher than the prior quarter.
We continue to expand this business and now have signed over 100 -- signed over 1 000 auto dealerships and expects to reach 1 200 by year-end.
An example of how we're keeping our business focused on the customer is our reentry into the credit card business.
Late in the quarter we acquired a portfolio of approximately $1.2 billion the portfolio consists of Regions branded consumer and business check card accounts credit card accounts of which 2/3 have 2 to 5 other banking services with Regions today.
Our plan is to gradually grow this portfolio over time by controlling a positive customer experience strong cross sale throughout our customer base and disciplined pricing and underwriting.
We believe that keeping focused on our customers require strong knowledge of customer needs and expectations.
As such we are committed to adding new products and services to further expand our business and add value.
We continue to look for opportunities to expand our consumer banking product line to address the ever-changing needs of our customers.
We are committed to serving the needs of our consumer customers with various credit products payment and cash services convenience of branches ATMs Internet and mobile and providing financial protection products to give customers confidence and trust.
The new products and services not only allow Regions to meet evolving customer needs while also to diversifying growing dependable revenue streams.
Although we're focused on properly growing our consumer business we remain committed to adding and deepening relationships with our commercial portfolio as well.
Our business services loan production for the second quarter totaled $14.6 billion a 14% increase over the same period a year ago and a 32% higher first to second quarter.
We're continuing to see strength at middle market commercial and industrial driven by both existing and new customers specialized industries such as energy healthcare and franchised restaurant are particularly strong with new relationships accounting for much of the activity.
Commercial &amp; Industrial commitments have increased 7% year-to-date and line utilization has remained relatively stable even with the growth in commitments.
Another area also performing well is small business with year-to-date production up more than 8% over 2010 this business remains a priority at Regions providing not only loans but also contributing fee income streams and deposits as well.
Our strength in gathering low cost deposits continued this quarter.
Average low cost deposits rose 4% compared to the second quarter last year.
And as a result total deposit costs declined 26 basis points year-over-year to 53 basis points.
Total funding cost have also declined 31 basis points over the same period ending the quarter at just 80 basis points.
Fee income is and will remain a significant component of our plan to diversify and expand our revenue streams.
Here again our focus and emphasis on service quality is paying off along with our ability to quickly adapt to changing environment.
Despite legislative and regulatory rule changes we grew service charges fee income 2% year-over-year and 7% linked quarter.
Along with the industry we face challenges required by the Durbin amendment which are to be implemented in October this year.
Based on the final ruling the company estimates that the impact on annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $170 million unmitigated.
However we plan to promptly adjust our business model to deal with new rules and over time we will be able to offset this impact through revenue enhancements and disciplined expense management.
Improving productivity and efficiency is a foundational part of our business strategy.
We have and will continue to aggressively identify opportunities to reduce cost without adversely impacting service quality and business development and our opportunity to grow.
And with this concluding review I'll turn it over to David for an update on the financial details.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
Let's begin with the summary of our second quarter results beginning on Slide 3.
Results demonstrated solid linked quarter progress including strong service charge fee revenue lower core expenses and broad-based credit quality improvement.
Earnings per share totaled $0.04 and net income available to common shareholders amounted to $55 million.
Pretax pre-provision net revenue or PPNR totaled $447 million.
However excluding security gains and branch consolidation costs of property and equipment charges adjusted PPNR increased to $500 million the highest level in 11 quarters.
Within PPNR net interest income was essentially steady linked quarter and the resulting net interest margin was 3.05%.
Excluding securities gains adjusted noninterest revenue declined $7 million or 1% linked quarter but was relatively flat on a year-over-year basis.
Noninterest expenses adjusted for $77 million of branch consolidation and property and equipment costs were lower than the prior quarter by $46 million or 4% reflecting reduced professional and legal fees as well as the decline in salaries and benefits expense.
Included within income taxes for the quarter is a benefit of $44 million related to the announced Morgan Keegan settlement.
Last year at the time of the accrual we believe the entire amount would be nondeductible.
Upon final settlement a portion was determined to be deductible resulting in this quarter's $44 million tax benefit.
Let's now take a look at our improved credit quality trends beginning with nonperforming loan inflows.
As shown on Slide 4 inflows of nonperforming loans declined $175 million or 24% linked quarter to $555 million the third consecutive quarterly decline and the lowest level of inflows since the first quarter of 2008.
On an absolute basis almost all loan categories experienced the decline in gross inflows.
Notably income producing commercial real estate and the Land/Condo/Single Family portfolios demonstrated some of the largest improvements.
On the right side of the slide note that 42% of June 30 total business services nonperforming loans were current and paying as agreed 4 percentage points higher linked quarter.
Turning to Slide 5.
Nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale declined $303 million or 10%.
This quarter we sold or transferred the held-for-sale $620 million of criticized loans consisting of $75 million of loans that were sold and $545 million of loans moved to held-for-sale.
I would like to point out that these loans that were in held-for-sale at June 30 have now been subsequently sold at the marked amount and are now off of our balance sheet.
Early stage credit indicators demonstrated improvement with total delinquencies decreasing for the fifth straight quarter.
Additionally business services criticized loans were down approximately $1.2 billion or 14% from first quarter's level and have now declined each quarter since fourth quarter 2009.
These 2 leading asset quality indicators serve as important measures in estimating future inflows of problem loans and once again support our expectations for continued improvement in nonperforming loan migration.
Accruing Troubled Debt Restructuring's or TDRs increased modestly this quarter to $1.66 billion.
We expect to see an increase in TDR's as a result of recent accounting literature that will be effective in the third quarter.
However importantly we do not anticipate there will be a material impact to our loan loss allowance resulting from this rule change.
And moving on to Slide 6.
Second quarter's net charge-offs were impacted by the $620 million of loans that were sold or moved to held-for-sale.
This disposition activity resulted in $207 million of charge-offs.
Net charge-offs totaled $548 million and exceeded the loan loss provision by $150 million primarily associated with allowances allocated to these loans.
Excluding net charge-offs related to this quarter's disposition activity net charge-offs declined 9% and reflected broad based improvement in almost all categories.
Looking forward net charge-offs are forecasted to remain elevated for the balance of the year.
Due to this quarter's disposition efforts our loan loss allowance to nonperforming loan coverage ratio increased from 103% to 112% at June 30.
Additionally we also sold $289 million of OREO and nonperforming loans that were previously held-for-sale at approximately break even.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Slide 7 breaks this quarter's change in loans and loan yields.
Average loans declined 1.6% with declines at Investor Real Estate offsetting strong middle market C&amp;I growth.
However ending loans were relatively flat linked quarter reflecting our late quarter credit card purchase.
The aggregate loan yield declined 4 basis points compared with the prior quarter to 4.27% as average 30-day LIBOR rate declined 6 basis points this quarter.
We continue to see strength in our commercial loan portfolio with average and ending loans up 6.1% and 6.6% from 1 year ago respectively.
Growth in our middle market C&amp;I is particularly strong driven by specialized industries which include: energy healthcare franchise restaurant transportation technology defense and asset-based lending.
Customers' refinancing mergers and acquisitions and capital expenditures are major contributors to this growth.
Again this quarter we experienced increases in 65% of our markets and total commercial &amp; industrial commitments have risen to $1.8 billion year-to-date ending the quarter at $28 billion.
On an ending basis Investor Real Estate declined another $1.4 billion and now totals $13.4 billion.
As noted earlier second quarter's credit card portfolio purchase demonstrates that we are focused on being a full service provider and is yet another way for us to rebalance our portfolio between commercial and consumer lending.
Now moving on to deposits.
As noted on Slide 8 we continue to benefit from our strength in gathering low cost deposits which on average grew $1.3 billion linked quarter while our average time deposits declined another $465 million.
As a result average total deposits rose $865 million or 1% over the first quarter.
Average low cost deposits as a percentage of total deposits has risen from 72.5% in the second quarter of 2010 to 76.6% this quarter.
This positive mix shift led to another 8 -- 6 basis points decline in second quarter total deposit costs to 53 basis points.
Second half deposit costs should continue to benefit from an improving mix through additional repricing of maturing CDs at lower market rates.
For the second half of this year $6.1 billion of CDs will mature and carry an average of 1.48%.
Turning to Slide 9.
Taxable equivalent net interest income was flat totaling $872 million with the resulting net interest margin declining 2 basis points to 3.05%.
Our margin continues to reflect our excess liquidity held at the Federal Reserve.
During the second quarter we took advantage of long-term rates declining and repositioned our securities portfolio shortening the duration to just over 3 years.
Specifically we sold $4 billion of 3.5-year agency mortgage-backed securities and reinvested the proceeds primarily in 2-year agency mortgage-backed securities resulting in $24 million of security gains.
Barring unexpected movement in interest rates net interest margin should be relatively stable with an upward bias for the balance of this year.
Let's now shift gears and look at noninterest revenue on Slide 10.
Excluding security gains second quarter noninterest revenue amounted to $757 million down 1% sequentially.
Second quarter's noninterest revenue reflected lower brokerage revenues offset by solid service charges and mortgage income growth.
Lower private client and capital markets revenues were the primary factors contributing to the sequential quarter decline in brokerage revenues.
The linked quarter increase in service charges reflects the ongoing restructuring of our accounts to fee-eligible.
Also interchange income was higher benefiting from increasing active debit card usage as total transactions year-to-date are 12% higher compared to a year ago.
New product innovation such as the launch of short-term small dollar cash advances for relationship customers and identity theft protections will serve to further diversify and build our revenue streams.
And just to reiterate what Grayson said regarding the Durbin Amendment we believe based on the final ruling we will be able to mitigate the lost revenue over time.
Lastly mortgage income was up 11% from the first quarter due to improved mortgage servicing right and related hedging performance.
Turning to expenses on Slide 11.
Second quarter noninterest expenses totaled $1.2 billion.
However excluding $77 million in charges primarily related to branch consolidation and property and equipment charges adjusted noninterest expense totaled $1.1 billion for the quarter a solid 4% below first quarter's level.
The key drivers of this quarter's decline were a 6% reduction in salaries and benefits expense and a $20 million reduction in professional and legal fees.
Credit related expenses which include other real estate expense gains and losses from held-for-sale and credit-related personnel costs declined modestly accounting for 8% of second quarter's adjusted noninterest expenses.
FDIC premiums increased $20 million linked quarter reflecting new rules which went into effect on April 1.
As Grayson noted we will consolidate approximately 40 branches as part of our ongoing and routine efforts to strengthen the franchise through productivity and efficiency initiatives.
These branches will be closed later this year and will have minimal customer impact.
We recorded asset -- associated property evaluation charges and equipment expenses of $77 million this quarter and expect to realize pretax future net cost saves of approximately $19 million annually.
Including these announced branch closings we will have reduced our branch count 19% and disposed of or exited 5.7 million square feet of company space since 2006.
In addition since 2006 we have reduced our headcount over 25% and 568 positions year-to-date.
We will continue to rigorously and diligently review our expenses to ensure they are tightly managed without sacrificing investment opportunities or our high standards for customer service.
But we'll provide a snapshot of our healthy capital ratios and favorable liquidity position.
Tier 1 Common is estimated at 7.9% and our Tier 1 ratio stands at 12.6%.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company is solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 84.3%.
Overall this quarter's results demonstrate that our strategy is working as our core business performance continues to improve.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thank you David.
Before taking questions I want to spend just a moment summarizing the actions we are taking to both improve Regions performance and to build a stronger organization for the future.
Focusing on the customer enhancing enterprisewide risk management and building sustainable performance are the 3 priorities that we are executing.
As second quarter's results show we are making continued progress in taking deliberate and appropriate steps to deliver on this business plan.
To recap this quarter we continued to de-risk our loan portfolio.
We purchased our Regions branded credit card portfolio.
We grew our commercial and industrial business.
We organized a new wealth management line of business within the bank.
We introduced some new suite of products and services for our consumer base and we announced continued efforts to rationalize our expense base in a disciplined and continuous manner.
Another critical component of this strategy is to ensure that Regions has the appropriate level of capital to support its long-term plans.
To that end as we previously mentioned as part of our capital planning process we announced our intention to explore potential strategic alternatives from Morgan Keegan which we believe is in the best long-term interest of both Morgan Keegan and Regions Financial.
All in all I'm encouraged with our second quarter progress.
We still have work ahead of us but we are committed to the ongoing successful execution of our business plans and we are delivering improved results.
Before we open the lines for questions I want to address an issue that has received some attention recently.
In June a federal judge denied our motion to dismiss a civil lawsuit and suggested in her opinion the audit committee of our Board of Directors and government authorities are investing accrual status of certain loans in 2009.
That prompted media coverage and questions from investors so in the 10-Q we will file in the next week or so we are going to include a disclosure which will say that the company has received inquiries and subpoenas from government authorities related to 2009 and earlier periods regarding accounting matters that have also been the subject of pending civil litigation against the company.
The company is cooperating fully and providing responses and the audit committee of our Board of Directors is conducting an investigation with the assistance of outside counsel and consultants.
I think it's important to note these inquiries relate to 2009 and earlier periods and do not have any bearing on our present financial statements including our level of nonperforming assets or our loan loss reserves.
Please recognize that we're limited in what we can say beyond this disclosure.
With that operator I'll open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
I think in general the expense management has been very strong which is good to see given the revenue environment is tough for all banks including yourself you highlighted the additional $19 million of run rate savings and just how do we think about the expense base going forward once we adjust for that once we back out some of the restructuring charges? What would you think about the trend of expenses incorporating that -- once we incorporate that? Yes Matt this is David.
We still have a lot of environmental expenses embedded in our income statement.
Roughly call it $300 million a year that we're continuing to work on.
You also saw our increase in FDIC premiums during the quarter which is based on an estimate of what we think the premiums will be.
There are still ongoing discussions on the new definitions that are embedded in the new rules there so we will continue to focus on expenses.
Part of our -- we look at headcount we look at branches we will continue in this type of environment where revenue is harder to come by you have to be diligent with regard to expenses.
So we are going to continue to work on getting those down.
As I mentioned before we expect that over time that we ultimately settle in to an efficiency ratio which is in the lower 60s or higher 50% and we're not there yet so we still have some work to go.
And Matt this is Grayson given our projection for a slow and somewhat uneven economic recovery our focus on expense disciplines to drive efficiency and productivity will continue.
As David mentioned earlier we're down over 500 positions since the first of the year.
I'm encouraged to say that we did that with improving service quality.
Our service quality metrics continue to improve.
I think as David mentioned you really can divide our expenses into 2 categories really discretionary expenses and also environmental expenses.
The environmental expenses are starting to improve which is in their elevated nature has been a great turn of events for us this quarter.
But our discretionary expenses will continue to trend downward as well because all across the franchise every business manager we have is focused on this issue and we believe we will have to for some time to come.
And then just separately you did mention about the TDRs increasing in the third quarter with the accounting change.
Do you have an early estimate of what that might be? And then similarly the reserve impact you said is not going to be meaningful but any estimate on what that might be in dollar terms would be helpful.
Yes.
Matt we haven't and we're working through that right now to be able to quantify the increase.
We don't have that yet.
We do think that maybe more important component is the expectation of the driver of any additional reserves.
And we do not believe that that change in accounting of TDR definition will impact our reserves meaningfully.
So as soon as we get the number we will be posting that up.
We don't have that today.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask 2 questions.
One was as we move the securities portfolio shorter aren't we just increasing our asset sensitivity and kind of giving up some of our future earnings if rates stay at this level? We do Marty but we also entered into some fix receipts fixed swaps with that that protects us with a lower rate environment.
So again our expectation is rates will be down here for a while and -- but we've protected ourselves on the downside.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So the combination of the swaps with the shorter securities weren't going to impact NII going forward? That's right.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my other question was in the release kind of in the back this is more of a detailed -- you had about a 2% impact from Basel I to Basel III risk-weighted assets and then kind of in the footnote we say we're developing systems in the calculation.
The 2% number seems a little slight to me.
I was curious what you were including if you're including any shift in the asset quality calculation or any of the net interest margin volatility or things like that in the new calculation for Basel III? Yes Marty one credit-related obviously these are all estimates right now trying to come up with what the risk-weighted assets are.
It's a little early for that.
The purpose of us putting Basel III in there to begin with is there was a lot of noise about what that might mean to some of the money center banks and we wanted to answer the question that our transition to Basel III is not going to be that difficult for us.
We just don't have the same construct that the larger money center banks do.
So we are continuing to look at definitions and implementation but I wouldn't get too caught up on the specific numbers.
We do believe we'll be in compliance.
Obviously we think we'll have higher ratios than what you see when it comes time for implementation of Basel.
The next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of questions on credit quality.
I'm wondering can you help us understand of the reserve release this quarter how much of it was related to the actual loan sales versus how much of it was just related to the other parts of the portfolio improving? This is Barb.
I'll go ahead and respond to that question.
The majority of it was related to the actual loan sale that we did although there was a small portion that was related otherwise.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then as far as your comments -- David your comments earlier on charge-offs remaining elevated understanding that a portion of this quarter's was again related to the loan sales.
Are we expecting -- are you generally expecting charge-offs to still remain at the level that it was this quarter going forward? Well clearly our charge-offs were up because of our de-risking and we provided if we had not had that charge-offs would've been a couple of hundred million dollars lower.
I think the point we need to make is we think that from a charge-off standpoint core charge-off they will be elevated compared to what our expectation is on a normal run rate.
We have the reserves established for that.
We're holding a pretty large reserve at 3.84% today.
So you would expect charge-offs to continue to remain elevated.
The bigger issue is what will the provision look like over time? And you saw us provide less in charge-offs for the first time in a while this past quarter.
So we don't have any planned transactions if you will at this time that would cause that charge-off to be -- level to be where you saw this past quarter.
Inc.</strong> And -- but that's my last follow-up is just on your last point there.
So if the majority of the release this quarter was specifically against loans that were sold and there is not much release in the rest of the book then is it fair to assume that you won't necessarily be planning on releasing reserves outside of incremental sales that you might conduct in the future? Ken I don't think you can look at it that way.
The charge-offs are charge-offs and the provision is a separate calculation that relates to any new issues that you may have coming up or any degradation in issue -- in loans that you already had reserved for.
And I think we let our allowance model work for us and we book whatever reserve the model tells us we need to have.
So I don't think just because we had charge-offs specific reserves attributable to those that you can imply we would not provide less in charge-offs going forward.
We're not admitting that we're going to do that either we're just saying don't look at it that way.
Well it's -- I do think you have to look at the leading indicators in terms of criticized classified assets in terms of early and late stage delinquencies.
When you look at our credit metrics they continue to show some favorable trend albeit slower than we would like but a favorable trend nonetheless.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question relates to the $620 million in loans that were reclassified in the quarter.
Could you give us a sense of how much of these loans came out of the NPL bucket versus criticized but accruing and what the associated mark was on that $620 million before you took the additional charge-off? Erika I think I have your question.
Out of that $620 million $255 million of those were accruing and the remainder were in non-accruing status.
Those were the book value numbers and you saw our charge-offs the $207 million on that $620 million.
Right I guess and what was the previous mark on that -- I mean on that $620 million? I assume that when you reclassified it to nonaccrual there was a reserve associated of the...
Yes.
The $620 million is the net book value that does not have reserves ascribed to it.
We ended up having charge-offs of $207 million and we released our reserve $150 million.
So that would give you some idea about the additional charges that we would have taken on that pool of loans.
Okay.
And Barb I was wondering if you could give us an update in terms of the redefault trends that you're seeing how that's tracking on the resi TDR book? And also if you can give us a refreshed LTV on that $1.2 billion.
I'll start with the trends that we're seeing the redefault rate continues to hold in around 20%.
So that really has not moved over the years.
As you can see from the numbers this quarter we did add a little bit both in home equity and resi to our TDR as we continued to apply our customer assistance program in helping customers.
Relative to the second part of the question which I need you to refresh me on? I'm sorry the refreshed LTV of the -- just specific to the resi TDR book please.
I don't have that broken up that way Erika but I can get that back to you.
Okay.
And just one last question in terms of your comments on really retooling your deposit product offerings to adjust to a new regulatory reality I was wondering if it's too early to give us a sense of how much of the Durbin income you can end up mitigating and how long does "over time" mean? Well Erika let me answer it this way.
One is we put together a plan of mitigating the impact of Durbin that includes both revenues and expenses.
And we will as you've seen us over the past year really moving from a free checking environment to a fee-eligible environment.
I think from a strategy standpoint our strategy is not going to be that different than many of our competitors.
But most of those strategies are speculative at this juncture but we intend to increase the hurdles if you will for our checking accounts.
We certainly have under consideration specific charges around debit cards themselves and our implementation of that will occur between now and year-end and we will be disclosing the impacts of those as we start seeing how customer behavior starts to modify in the new environment.
Your next question comes from Scott Valentin of FBR.
Just regard to the margin you mentioned a stable margin with maybe an upward bias.
I was just curious looks like CD rates there's still room to reduce CD rates maybe cost of funds can come down somewhat.
And I guess the other question would be liquidity is there room to reduce liquidity and therefore maybe see some asset yield improvement.
I just thought maybe there'd be a brighter outlook for margin given some outlooks like relying through to improve margin.
Yes Scott you're right.
That's why we put upward bias to it.
We also have nonperformers and as those continue to yield what -- there's a pickup there.
One of our issues that we've been facing is from a liquidity standpoint we've had tremendous liquidity over this past quarter.
We had an average of right at $5 billion at the Federal Reserve.
And we'd like to put that to work on a more efficient basis.
So we've been working to return to sustainable profitability improve credit metrics and get our credit ratings improved such that we can take become a little more efficient with regards to how our balance sheet is positioned.
And when we can do that you can see that we can do a lot better earning than 25 basis points with that $5 billion over time.
So the question is when can we do that? And we're working hard on that.
You're right to point out we do have some more benefit to pickup from deposit costs.
We are at about 53 basis points today.
And I think that we will continue to improve there.
And then we layered on roughly a little over $1 billion credit card purchase that should enhance our loan yields going forward.
So if you're trying to imply we're being a little conservative in terms of the call I'm with you but I don't think until we can get our balance sheet positioned as efficient as we want that we're going to have a runaway margin.
And Scott this is Grayson.
From a -- if you look at it from a deposit cost standpoint we do continue to believe that we got more opportunity there to reduce our cost on the margin.
I mean loan yield perspective is we're seeing new production across all asset classes product types.
We are seeing improved yields and rates on new production.
Obviously there's more competition that we're seeing out in the marketplace but the rates that we're able to put new production on the books is still at levels higher than precrisis levels.
And as we add new production to the book we are seeing improvement in our overall yield outlook on the loan portfolio.
That being said most of our commercial loans are tied to 30-day LIBOR.
We did have a pretty challenging operating environment in relates to LIBOR in the second quarter.
And just a follow-up question you mentioned the Morgan Keegan long-term you think it's the right thing to do.
I'm just curious how you win a trade-off between losing some earnings power on the sale of Morgan Keegan versus maybe the capital that frees up? Well we had to go through and have over the past several months a fairly extensive review of our businesses.
We continued to do that across our portfolio of businesses within the company.
I think that the settlement that we were able to achieve with the SEC FINRA and the state regulators in regard to Morgan Keegan really provided an opportunity for us to look at that business more strategically and decide where we go it's a very valuable franchise.
It's been part of this organization since 2001 and we do -- our preference is to sort of maintain some type of strategic alliance as we move forward but we continue to believe that as we look at our capital planning process that taking a strategic review at this point in time is the right answer.
We will be giving more clarity on our financial pro formas as this process matures.
Now we're not in a position to give that clarity today but it will be forthcoming.
Your next question comes from Jefferson Harralson of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I was going to follow-up on Erika's question.
I think that the -- I don't know if I call it a concern but biggest issue I think people have is with all banks right now what they could sell the problem loans for versus what their markdown.
And if you've taken a $207 million loss in addition to $150 million reserve on $620 million of loans moved it seems like that the loans aren't -- for all banks not just you guys but to close -- able to sell for close to where their margins is going to take a long time to get through this whole cycle.
Is there -- I guess could you comment on that and is there -- I guess can you give us some comfort about the marks in the future losses and how long it's going to take to work through those problem loans? Jefferson it's Barb.
The $150 million that we released was not in addition to it was part of the $207 million that it cost us.
So we already had these loans pretty well marked at the time that we sold them.
So if you look at that rough delta between what we sold from the $620 million and the difference between the $207 million and the $150 million it's roughly $60 million say roughly a 10%.
We chose those assets as we -- part of our continuous credit servicing we've looked at each of the accounts we looked at how long it would take us to accomplish our workout strategies and in several instances and knowing at the time that the market was pretty enthusiastic for some of these individual assets we felt it was in our best interest to go ahead and pull that workout strategy forward and go ahead and sell it.
And again the 10% therefore I would reflect as being more of a liquidity premium in the market than it was a credit mark.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right.
Can you just comment on the -- you mentioned the pull ahead of problem loans should we expect more of that type of thing or is it going to as the inflows are slowing down are we going to slow down the disbursement? Yes.
Jefferson this is David.
We don't have any current plans for a disposition that we -- similar to what we just we had.
We do have loans in held-for-sale and OREO which we would continue to market and sell.
But we are continuing to evaluate our portfolio.
And if it makes sense to have a further transaction then we will mark loans to held-for-sale take our mark put them in there and sell them.
But right now we do not have that currently planned.
Your next question comes from Chris Mutascio of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Barb my first question when it comes to the Investor Real Estate TDRs they were up about 30% this quarter and that's before I guess the accounting change next quarter.
Can you refresh my memory as to what type of collateral you have on those Investor Real Estate TDRs and what the average LTVs would be? Yes I don't have the average LTVs in front of me but let me just give a general comment on the TDRs if I could.
Remembering that we have decided as a strategy on our work outside to keep all of our duration short so all of our renewals are short we typically don't go beyond a year.
And so because of that as we look at these loans that are coming up that we actually are going to renew this year a lot of those are going to fall into TDR status because what will happen is one argues that "Would you ever make a loan to a classified credit and could you ever get the appropriate rate around it?" And so again we've taken the position conservative perhaps but we've certainly taken the position that the answer is no and so therefore they would become TDRs.
The collateral behind it is all manner of things income producing in general but that would make up the story of it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
David what's the book value of Morgan Keegan? We haven't shared that book value number.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Well let me -- if you sell it for less than book value that loss goes to the income statement.
Would it be a similar hit to Tier 1 Common? It would be if we end up having a loss yes.
And if we had a gain it would increase to Tier 1 Common.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
My last question is and David the long-term debt yields are up about 22 basis points sequentially.
Any -- was that a swap-related why the yields would go up on your long-term debt? It was just the maturing piece that was -- because we had it swapped out it was on a weighted basis it was a lower rate.
And so when it came out it just forced everything else up.
Your next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> You all have been fairly active over the last few quarters just pulling out structural changes the branch sale entering indirect auto reentering credit card now you're evaluating Morgan Keegan.
Can you give us a sense for are there other levers other options that you have kind of on your planning board that are possible or are you kind of at a point where that's really it? And it kind of plays into the earlier question about how do you evaluate or how do you weigh that loss or shortfall of revenues if you part with Morgan Keegan? Just wondering what other kind of levers are out there that you're evaluating.
Well let me start and I'll let David sort of respond also.
We have been continuously reevaluating our businesses our products and our markets.
And we've got a fairly full agenda at the moment with all the activities going on.
We certainly continue to run through that process on a quarterly basis as we go through a fairly extensive capital planning process and making sure that we're looking at these businesses the right way.
I think the announcement we made around indirect around credit cards and now around reviewing strategic alternatives for Morgan Keegan have been part of that planning process for several quarters.
I think you will continue to see us do those types of evaluations.
We're not in a position to share what our thoughts are today on future events but I think you can have a certain amount of confidence that we are in a continuous review of all the businesses we're in to try to strengthen this organization for the future and put us in a better position to be successful in delivering the results that our shareholders desire.
Yes Kevin this is David.
We've had a strategic plan in place that our board has approved and we've been executing in accordance with that plan.
Certainly if you'd look at an example of Morgan Keegan we needed to be in position to settle the regulatory issues that we've talked about before we could move forward with evaluating strategic alternatives for Morgan Keegan.
So we will continue to look at all options to continue to enhance the value to our shareholders.
Specific to Morgan Keegan you asked at the end of your question kind of how do you replace the revenue hole to the extent that we execute on if something comes out and we actually dispose of Morgan Keegan you need to look at Page 10 of the supplement which carves out -- and this is not apples to apples but it does give you most of that is Morgan Keegan it's included in the evaluation.
It does include on Page 10 trust and asset management which is not part of the strategic evaluation but you can look at the numbers that come out of that.
And as you think about how you replace revenue you need to also consider about the expense that won't be there to the extent we pull that trigger.
And also note that whatever proceeds raised in the transaction if one happens serves to offset the amount of debt perhaps that we have to raise as we position ourselves for -- at the Parent Company as we position ourselves for repayment of TARP.
So that's interest carry that you save by not having to go out in the marketplace and raise that debt.
So you need to keep that whole-type transaction not just focus on revenue.
L.P.</strong> Just one quick follow-up.
You've talked a lot about the movement of customer accounts to fee-eligible status.
I'd assume not all banks are moving at the same speed of -- in that process.
I know it's early but are you seeing any early signs on what the customer reaction is to that? Well this is Grayson.
It's going to be an uneven approach by the industry.
I think that it's too early to call at this juncture where yet to see in the marketplace what all the participants what strategies all the participants will deploy.
We believe we put together a good strategy.
We stand ready to modify that strategy though if the market necessitates that.
But I think at this juncture it's just too early to call what the customer reaction will be.
We've certainly done a lot of research.
We tested a number of theories and we've had customer groups in and we've listened to and spoke to.
But we really got to wait to see what the behavioral changes of our customers turn out to be.
Your next question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC</strong> I wanted to extend the conversation and questions that Jefferson and Erika both had it relates to if you look at the change in classified of the past year it looks like from the slide that it's roughly about $3.4 billion criticized adjustment in the last 12 months.
And if I look at the charge-offs you've taken plus the $200 million for the held-for-sale move today works out to about a 40% loss.
Is the loss content going forward similar to what you just experienced in the last year in business services or should we be thinking of a number that might be a little less than that given just what's remaining in the classified in criticized bucket? Christopher this is David.
I'll start and Barb you can add on.
Obviously the marketplace is changing dramatically each and every quarter.
You're looking at a lot of history.
In some cases asset values are stabilizing in some case there are still challenges there.
So when you try to forecast losses that are built in based on that history it gets difficult to do.
I would tell you as you think of our losses and look at the reductions in our most problematic loan portfolios Investor Real Estate is down 50% from where we were at the beginning of the cycle down to $13.4 million.
So we expect charge-offs to be there that's why we have a reserve of 3.84% and we believe we're adequately reserved for the credit risks that's embedded in the portfolio.
When you have dispositions outside of the normal course if you will and we've had some of those over time you introduce a liquidity discount that you have to take.
And in some cases that liquidity discount is worth taking and sometimes it's not.
We clearly have disclosed the fair value of our loans that's assuming we would have a -- sell everyone of our loans and that's not the case.
So predicting those losses will be at that same level is difficult.
But we continue to evaluate the best strategy of our portfolio.
And like I said today we don't have any plans to market and sell.
And if that changes then we will take our charges and move on.
I'd add to that -- this is Barb.
I'd add to that that our land single family and condos being our most distressed parts of the portfolio both balances did fall this quarter as you see $2.5 billion down from $4.4 billion just a year ago.
So they've fallen substantially.
The other comment I would add to that is of that as we look at the number of customers or the percentage of our customers in nonperforming loans that are paying as contractually agreed that continues to go up each quarter.
Compared to a year ago as well it's 24% were paying as contractually agreed and now we're at 42%.
But that too suggests that the quality of what's in the nonperforming loans is a different quality over the last several quarters and I would expect the same going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Is there a rough percentage of the allowance that would be assigned towards the consumer as a broad number? I don't have that handy.
[indiscernible] We will have to look at the note.
We'll get back to you Chris.
Your final question comes from Chris Gamaitoni of Compass Point.
On a broader level when you were speaking about credit card cross-selling were you -- I was unclear was the strategy to bring customers in with credit cards and then cross-sell them or cross-sell existing customers with credit cards? Understand this portfolio we acquired has been Regions branded for years and so it's on a Regions card it's predominantly sold to Regions customers.
And our strategy is to cross-sell Regions customers with a credit card not the other way around.
As I said in my comments today when you look at this portfolio the vast majority of these customers already have banking relationships with Regions Bank.
We've got about 2 to 5 products already sold to these customers on average today.
So this is really just our ability to control the customer experience around the credit card for our customers who already have a relationship with Regions and for us to deepen and strengthen that relationship.
And you won't see us being most aggressive on a credit card.
It's a relationship product from our perspective.
And then just on the short term cash loans what's the average APR on those? The average APR on the short terms? Yes.
It's a fee business.
It's not an APR product.
Right.
But when you convert it to an APR -- I think we'll have a conversation off-line that will be better suited.
Yes.
Let me also respond.
I think about 1/3 of our reserve is consumer 2/3 of it is commercial.
Chris that was for you.
All right well thank you very much for your time and we'll stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's quarterly earnings call.
My name is Melissa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; our Chief Financial Officer David Turner; and also available to answer questions this morning are Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
Now that we have all of that covered I will turn it over to our President and CEO Grayson Hall.
Thank you List and welcome everyone to Regions' third quarter earnings conference call.
The third quarter results provide additional evidence that our disciplined efforts are paying off that we are successfully executing our business plans as we deliver another quarter of progress.
Regions earned $101 million or $0.08 per diluted share this quarter.
Adjusted pretax pre-provision income rose to $540 million up 19% year-over-year and the highest level in more than 3 years demonstrating ongoing improvement in our core business performance.
Further adjusted pretax pre-provision income exceeded the loan loss provision for the second consecutive quarter which is critical to Regions' achieving sustainable profitability.
Although results met our expectations and demonstrated incremental progress signs of a weakening economic recovery and reduced consumer and business confidence began to surface during the third quarter causing us to take an increasingly cautious and disciplined stance on credit quality.
This environment led to a $200 million linked quarter rise in gross non-performing loans inflows largely driven by investor real estate credits.
David will provide much more detail but it's important to note that 63% of these gross inflows were still current and performing as agreed.
Our credit metrics showed improvement linked quarter as total non-performing assets declined 6%.
Net charge-offs decreased 7%.
Business Services' criticized loans fell 8% and delinquencies both early and late stage improved.
While we remain cautious given the current uncertain economic backdrop we do expect credit costs to resume their downward trend in the fourth quarter and credit quality metrics overall to continue to improve.
Our investor real estate exposure continued to decline this quarter with total outstandings down $4 billion or 25% thus far this year.
Within this portfolio construction loans are down 48% so far this year.
I'm particularly pleased with the progress we're continuing to make in fundamentally improving Regions' business model both from the standpoint of generating profitable revenue streams and enhancing productivity.
Our ongoing focus on customer needs and superior customer service has enabled us to grow adjusted revenue to 1% year-to-date versus prior year despite greater economic and regulatory challenges.
At the same time we have focused on controlling the expenses as evidenced by a 3% decline in year-to-date adjustment noninterest expenses versus the prior year.
In the third quarter we generated $14.7 billion in new or renewed loan commitments.
In Business Services loan production totaled a solid $12.5 billion down linked quarter but stable year-over-year.
Commercial and industrial loan growth remained strong with ending balances up 3% linked quarter and nearly 13% higher from that a year ago.
Importantly commitments increased approximately 3% during the quarter and line utilization rose to 43%.
Middle market C&amp;I lending particularly specialized industries such as energy healthcare and franchise restaurant continue to drive the growth.
We do expect commercial loan growth to continue even as economic uncertainty weighs on customer confidence which does have a moderating effect on investment by businesses.
While we are seeing incremental pricing competition especially in the middle market space our relationship banking approach and brand differentiation has for the most part mitigated this impact.
Our spreads remained above those experienced prior to the recession.
On the consumer front loan production totaled $2.2 billion in the quarter a 7% increase over the prior quarter led by higher mortgage and credit card production.
Looking specifically at mortgage production this quarter's low rates resulted in solid origination volumes totaling $1.5 billion or 9% higher than the prior quarter.
Additionally indirect auto lending provided a steady source of loan growth with balances up 4% on a linked quarter basis.
Demand for home equity lines and loans remained low.
As a result this portfolio continues to decline at a pace of $90 million to $100 million per month.
Customer deleveraging continues to affect overall consumer loan balances as runoffs exceed new production.
Efforts to improve funding mix and cost continue to produce good results in the third quarter as well as deposit costs declined another 7 basis points total average deposits were stable linked quarter with average low-cost deposits growing 2% linked quarter we continue to see the opportunity to further reduce deposit costs most significantly through properly repricing maturing CDs.
Of which they declined this quarter 22% of total deposits.
As a result we will likely continue to observe a favorable shift in deposit mix and a further reduction in funding costs.
Notably from September 30 of this year to the end of next year approximately $13.1 billion of CDs are scheduled to mature.
These CDs on average carry an interest rate of 1.54% which compares to expectations in the current rate environment for average rates in new CDs coming on at a 25 to 40 basis point range.
One other important note this quarter on deposits is according to the latest FDIC summary of deposits report Regions maintained its #1 market share in Alabama Tennessee and Mississippi and also maintained a position of fourth or better in Florida Arkansas and Louisiana.
This was achieved despite our efforts to reduce our CD portfolio and lower deposit costs 26 basis points during the same time period.
Despite economic legislative and regulatory challenges adjusted non-interest revenues were down only 1% linked quarter and stable year-over-year.
Relationship banking not single one-time transactions are at the core of our business plans.
We are making steady progress in deepening and expanding customer relationships with strong cross sell of products.
We are continuing to adapt our product line to meet our customers' changing needs while maintaining a best-in-class customer service.
Credit card revenues including increased branch card sales are already benefiting from our credit card portfolio purchase late in the second quarter.
We expect benefits to increase further once we assume servicing in portfolio next year and we increase our focus and intention on cross-sell efforts in our branch offices.
I've mentioned implementation of the Durbin Amendment on October 1.
This has presented the industry and Regions with another financial hurdle in growing fee revenues.
While we have already begun to implement plans to mitigate the estimated $170 million annual impact and between changes to our checking account fee structure and other new revenue initiatives that we have implemented in the second half of this year we do expect to make up this revenue shortfall over time during the balance of 2012.
Improving productivity and efficiency is another key element of our business plan and we have continued to make progress on this front end of the third quarter.
We're fundamentally changing our cost culture continuously seeking opportunities to improve and control efficiency while still making appropriate investments to enhance our competitive position and remain a superior service provider.
Year-to-date our headcount is down 1 000 positions with further reductions expected by the end of the year.
Also it's occupancy expenses are declining as we have eliminated approximately 1 million square feet of excess space in the company this year.
Our capital continues to build as we generate earnings with our Tier 1 common ratio at 8.2% as of September 30.
And let me mention one other item before I turn it over to David.
As you know we are reviewing strategic alternatives for Morgan Keegan.
We're not in position to comment on this further today but I can tell you that we're making good progress.
Progress is on schedule and in line with our expectations.
And we would do expect to have more say on this issue in the very near future.
I'll now turn it over to David who will provide you with additional financial details for the quarter.
After which I'll come back for a few closing comments before we take questions.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Let's begin with a summary of our third quarter 2011 results beginning on Slide 3.
Overall our results reflect stable revenue lower expenses and improved loan loss provisions.
Earnings per share totaled $0.08 and net income available to common shareholders amounted to $101 million.
Adjusted PPI amounted to $540 million an 8% increase versus prior quarter.
Within PPI total revenue was down 1% linked quarter and the net interest margin declined 3 basis points to 3.02%.
However non-interest expenses adjusted for the prior quarter's branch consolidation and other property charges were down 5% sequentially reflecting a decline in FDIC premiums as well as a reduction in salaries and benefits expense.
Let's now take a detailed look at credit quality trends beginning with nonperforming loan inflows.
As shown on Slide 4 inflows of nonperforming loans rose $200 million linked quarter to $755 million.
This quarter's increase was primarily driven by the Land/Condo/Single Family and income-producing Investor Real Estate portfolios.
However it is important to note that 63% of this quarter's inflows were current and paying as agreed.
In addition as shown on the right side of the slide 45% or over $1 billion of the September 30 total Business Services nonperforming loans were current and paying as agreed a 3 percentage point increase versus the prior quarter.
Turning to Slide 5.
Non-performing loans excluding loans held for sale declined $74 million or 3% and non-performing assets decreased 6%.
This quarter we executed a strategic sales of problem assets totaling $660 million.
Additionally we moved $384 million of problem loans to held for sale.
Early and late-stage credit indicators again demonstrated improvement with total delinquencies declining 7%.
Additionally Business Services criticized loans were down approximately $595 million or 8% from second quarter's level and have declined $3.3 billion since this period last year.
Despite the challenging economic backdrop we expect overall credit trends to continue to improve.
The $1.2 billion increase in accruing troubled debt restructurings or TDRs reflects this quarter's new accounting guidance.
Importantly this change has no material impact to our allowance.
In fact commercial and Investor Real Estate loans modified as TDRs increased the allowance for loan losses by less than $20 million.
Moving on to Slide 6.
Third quarter's net charge-offs were impacted by the disposition activity discussed earlier.
Net charge-offs associated with this activity totaled $198 million.
However markdowns on the disposed assets had largely been provided for earlier in our loan loss allowance.
Net charge-offs totaled $511 million and exceeded the loan loss provision by $156 million marking the second consecutive quarter we have provided less than charge-offs.
Excluding net charge-offs related to this quarter's disposition activity net charge-offs were down 8% linked quarter.
Our loan loss allowance for non-performing loan coverage was 109% at September 30 while our loan loss allowance to net loans totaled 3.73%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Slide 7 breaks down this quarter's change in loans and loan yields.
Average loans declined less than 1% linked quarter with declines in Investor Real Estate offsetting healthy C&amp;I growth and second quarter's credit card portfolio purchase.
The aggregate loan yield increased 4 basis points compared with prior quarter to 4.31% and was driven by our credit card portfolio.
We believe there are attractive opportunities to grow this portfolio over time as currently only 1 out of 10 of our customers has a Regions credit card.
On the Business Services front we continue to see strength in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio with average and ending loans up 12.4% and 12.9% from one year ago respectively.
Demand continues to be broad based as we experienced increases in 55% of our markets.
Total commercial and industrial commitments rose $700 million linked quarter ending the quarter at $28.7 billion and line utilization increased to 43.3% which still remains below our historical levels.
We continue to make progress in derisking our Investor Real Estate portfolio as well.
Over the past year we have reduced this portfolio by 32% and it now comprises only 15% of our total loan portfolio down from nearly 21% one year ago.
Moving on to deposits.
As noted on Slide 8 average and ending deposits were both stable linked quarter driven by our strength in gathering low cost deposits particularly noninterest-bearing deposits offset by reductions in our time deposits.
Average time deposits declined $1.1 billion during the third quarter.
As a result average low cost deposits as a percentage of total deposits have risen from 73.5% in the third quarter of 2010 compared to 77.8% this quarter.
This positive mix shift led to another 7 basis points decline in third quarter total deposit cost to 46 basis points which is down 24 basis points since the third quarter of 2010.
Our shift in funding mix to low cost deposits is also favorably impacting total funding costs which declined another 5 basis points to 75 basis points.
As was mentioned earlier in the call we will continue to benefit from the repricing of maturing CDs.
Much of this benefit will come in the latter half of 2012 but we do have to $2.4 billion of CDs maturing in the fourth quarter of 2011 which carry an average rate of 1.32%.
Turning to Slide 9.
Taxable equivalent net interest income declined $6 million with the resulting net interest margins declining 3 basis points to 3.02%.
This quarter's drop was due to higher levels of prepayments and the resulting negative impact on investment portfolio yields along with a larger impact from cash reserves at the Federal Reserve.
Recent changes to the Fed's large-scale asset purchase program or Operation Twist among other reasons resulted in a sharp decline in long-term interest rates.
This in turn led to higher prepayment rates causing an increase in premium amortization on mortgage-backed securities.
Since long-term interest rates declined in the latter half of the quarter we do expect prepayments to increase in the fourth quarter as they typically lag a couple of months.
The major drivers of the outlook continue to be the levels of long-term interest rates which drive prepayment and reinvestment rates in the investment and mortgage portfolios.
However barring any significant moves from here we expect the net interest margin will remain stable through 2012.
Let's now shift gears and look at non-interest revenue on Slide 10.
Excluding securities transactions and leverage lease terminations third quarter non-interest revenue amounted to $748 million down 1% sequentially but unchanged year-over-year.
Third quarter's non-interest revenue reflected higher mortgage revenues and stable service charges offset by a decline in brokerage capital markets and in banking -- in investment banking revenues.
Mortgage revenue was positively impacted by third quarter's decline in interest rates.
Origination volume rose 9% as customers took advantage of historically low rates.
Service charge income remained strong due to the ongoing restructuring of our checking accounts to fee eligible and an increase in spending activity lifting debit card revenue.
Incremental debit card usage has driven an 11% increase in total transactions year-to-date resulting in 13% higher interchange income.
We have already begun mitigating loss interchange income through account changes implementation of fees and new products and services for our customers.
Brokerage investment banking and capital markets income was down reflecting pressure from greater market volatility during the quarter.
Turning to expenses on Slide 11.
Non-interest expense declined 5% linked quarter excluding the prior quarter's branch consolidations and property and equipment charges.
The key drivers of this quarter's improvement were a $32 million reduction in salaries and benefits expense and a $25 million reduction in FDIC premiums.
Now going forward we currently expect FDIC premium expense to be approximately $50 million a quarter.
Partially offsetting these are credit-related expenses which include other real estate expense net gains and losses from sales of loans in our held for sale bucket and credit-related personnel costs increased $8 billion and accounted for 9% of third quarter's adjusted non-interest expenses.
Over time a significant amount of credit-related costs should be eliminated.
Additionally we reduced headcount another 1% in the third quarter resulting in a 3% year-to-date reduction.
We will continue to focus on driving expense savings without sacrificing investment opportunities or compromising high service levels our customers have come to expect and deserve at Regions.
Slide 12 provides a snapshot of our solid capital ratios and favorable liquidity position.
Tier 1 common increased to 8.2% and our Tier 1 ratio stands at 12.8%.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 83% and cash held at Federal Reserve totaled approximately $6 billion.
Overall this quarter's results shall continued to progress.
We are improving our core business performance reducing our credit risk and further strengthening our balance sheet.
Now let me turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thank you David.
While Regions continues to face some headwinds we have a business plan in place that we believe will enable us to achieve sustainable performance and ensure attractive long-term returns for shareholders.
And importantly we are successfully executing our plan as demonstrated by our third quarter's results.
We can't control the economic environment but we are focused on those factors we can control.
At Regions we made it our priority to keep focused on our customers.
To illustrate this let me point out that approximately 80% of our associates are customer-facing out in the field in our branch offices focusing on winning our customers' respect and loyalty taking market share and profitably growing our business one customer at the time.
We are building sustainable profitability by diversifying and expanding our revenue streams and controlling our operating expenses.
We are quickly adapting our product offerings and services to be more innovative and to compensate for the negative impacts from legislative changes as well as customers' changing needs and expectations.
We are enhancing enterprise-wide risk management by derisking our balance sheet maintaining pricing discipline and prudently managing our capital.
Perhaps lost in the market turmoil is just how far Regions has come in the past few years.
Let me highlight a few examples.
Investor Real Estate portfolio has been reduced by almost $14 billion.
Our loan loss allowance at $3 billion today is over 2x higher than it was just in 2007 and our Tier 1 common ratio has increased 150 basis points.
And today we're core funded attributing to a 25% increase in low cost deposits.
We are clearly a much stronger franchise today and we are profitably moving forward.
Operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet from Matt's team.
First question just on your outlook for credit quality.
You mentioned you expect overall credit trends to continue to improve from here.
As we think about NPA levels how should we think about non-accrual inflows from here versus additional asset dispositions? Rob obviously we're facing a challenging economic backdrop.
But as we said in our comments we do believe that as we look forward we'll continue to see a favorable trend in our credit metrics.
I'll just stop there and ask Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer to make a few comments on that regard.
If you look at our early late stage delinquencies our late stage criticized classified again there they're all down.
So that too was to suggest that we're seeing a little bit of stability.
But as Grayson has mentioned we are obviously tied to what we're seeing in the economy.
As we think about the inflows that we've seen this quarter a lot of the inflows is adjusted 52% repaying current and as agreed but it was based on conversations from our customers that they're seeing some of the trends in the overall economy softening.
Based on those conversations we went ahead and had moved those to the nonperforming loan status.
All that on the non-performing asset side however we’re going to continue to dispose of assets.
You saw that we've closed $660 million this quarter.
We moved an additional $384 million into held for sale for disposal next quarter.
So we're going to continue with our aggressive derisking.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just to follow up on your asset disposition this quarter I think the market took on the loans it was around 20% this quarter which compared to around 30% last quarter.
So just a question on what drove the decline? Is it a difference in the type of assets you sold or is it a pickup in interest on the buyer's side? No what we actually saw Rob is that we had roughly a -- the old 10% liquidity over and above what we would've reserved the loans for.
So we really didn't see a big difference in that.
We did saw a lot more of the smaller amounts.
If you take our average loan size we sold this quarter it was under $1 million.
If you look at -- compared to a year ago it was $3 million on average in terms of the size of loans we sold.
We're getting a lot more granular.
Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer Demba of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about -- give us some any more color you can on the higher inflows of problem loans this quarter versus the second quarter? I know you gave us the categories that it was mostly coming from but can you give us any more color that you can? Jennifer I would say that really the composition of the inflows from second to third quarter really haven't changed that much.
It's still the same relative to the same mix.
We continue to have dialogue with our customers in terms of both capacity to repay and commitment to repay.
We've had a number of those kinds of dialogues.
Obviously we have a continuous credit review process.
And as we come to the quarter we have identified certain credits that we felt like that it was prudent to move to a non-performing status.
It's up slightly from -- as you've seen from the second quarter but we've sort of said all along there's going to be some level of volatility in this.
Obviously as the economy softens some of our customer confidence is softened as well.
That being said as we pointed out earlier in the presentation there is a higher percentage of these loans paying as agreed than what we've seen in the second quarter and our overall nonperforming loan days continues to have yet even a higher level of paying as agreed.
Barb anything you'd want to add to that -- the mix? No I think you’ve hit on all the major points.
Again if you look at the migration that we had it really was -- for the vast majority did come from our Investor Real Estate portfolio which we all have agreed will be lumpy as we come out of the current economic climate that we're in.
Your next question comes from the line of Jefferson Harralson of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have kind of a broad question.
I'm trying to see if you can figure out if you can keep your pretax pre-provision earnings fairly stable here.
Along those lines a big piece of that will be the margin and I was a little surprised you gave flat margin guidance given that you've got so much firepower in the margin I suppose from potential better credit or potential use of liquidity.
But do you think that you can keep your pretax pre-provision earnings fairly stable even if loans continue to shrink a little bit here? Yes this is David.
In terms of if we look at margin clearly having this interest rate environment that we're in very volatile environment on the loan side causes us to reinvest our cash at lower rate environment which puts pressure on our margins.
That being said we've been able to hold that margin because of our benefit we receive on the deposit side of the house as we continue to reprice maturing CDs.
So I think being able to hold that from a loan standpoint we have had a nice growth in our C&amp;I loan bucket.
We have offset that on a net basis with the continued derisking in Investor Real Estate which we think will slow the decline of that will slow somewhat in the fourth quarter.
So we feel good about being able to maintain that margin.
Now we do have $6 billion of cash at the Federal Reserve they’re paying 25 basis points today that is pretty conservative from a liquidity standpoint as our ratings continue.
If we can get our ratings to improve then we can be less defensive with that cash and get it invested on a more efficient basis.
So we have some upside and we're not calling that right now perhaps when we get the rating changed we will have further progression in the margin.
Jefferson this is Grayson.
I think that when you look at the margin we have guided to a stable margin.
There are obviously some opportunities for upside to that as there is for downside.
But I would say that the deposits when we look at our cost of deposits there's an opportunity there for improvement to the margins on the loan side as we're repricing loans we went into this cycle with a relatively small percentage of our loans fixed versus variable.
So we're not having a repricing pressure most of our repricing is actually to our advantage at this juncture in the cycle.
Where most of our pressure on margins is going to come from is from the investment portfolio.
And depending on which rates -- which way rates go over the near-term is really going to drive how much pressure that we'll actually receive from that front.
And the fourth element is the effort to provide more favorable refinancing opportunities for residential mortgage holders and what level of prepayments does that result in.
Because as you'll recall our investment portfolio is very heavy in mortgage-backed securities.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think David may have partially answered this but do you think that the balance sheet can stay around this same size next year? Or do you think it should shrink a little bit as you continue running off the run-off portfolio? Yes I think that if you kind of look on a net basis it's going to be driven largely by the economy and how strong that is for us to continue the C&amp;I growth which has been a great driver of offsetting the decline.
We've been declining that Investor Real Estate portfolio about $1.5 billion each quarter and we've had great growth in C&amp;I.
So the question is how long will the economy kind of hang in there where our C&amp;I can continue to move along.
But we do see a slowdown as I mentioned earlier in Investor Real Estate.
So we'll have to see how those 2 work themselves out over the long haul.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the outlook for the reserve level longer term? And how you think about that right now just as you're still seeing the ability to release reserves here in the coming quarters? Okay.
Matt Lusco Chief Risk Officer.
Matt would you answer that? I'll be glad to.
Our allowance level we believe is at about 109% I guess of our non-performings right now.
And as you've seen we've been able to under provide our charge-offs for 2 quarters in a row now.
We believe that we're seeing some shift in our loss given default in our model.
But we believe that's offset by a lower probability of default as we kind of continue to work through some of the things.
That being said I think we are in the back -- latter half of this credit cycle and I think you'll kind of see the trends that we've shown with our allowance levels at our provision levels continuing into future quarters.
I think we've been pretty disciplined in our allowance process.
We've strengthened that process over time and we're going to stay very disciplined in how we execute that.
We've been conservatively modest in what we've done over the last 2 quarters and I think you can continue to see the conservatism come through in our actions.
But we're going to let our methodology and our disciplines drive the results of that.
And as Matt said we are seeing a forecast of more favorable trend but with maybe a slower pace than we would have seen 90 days ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my follow-up will be on the loan growth.
You mentioned that you're seeing impressively -- you're actually seeing loan yields hold up particularly on your new loan growth largely concentrated in commercial.
Can you just give us some color on those new yields? What yields are your new commercial loan generation coming on at? Let me answer it this way John.
We have seen pricing pressure clearly in the upper end of the middle market portfolio.
That being said spreads are still better than some of the earlier years.
I think that a lot of folks also want to grow C&amp;I and we see the pricing pressure coming through that.
We want to maintain our discipline in this environment because we want to make sure loans that go on the books have the right risk-adjusted return.
And we will not go in and put low spread product on our books just to grow the loan portfolio.
We've been able to use our relationship with our customers as our predominant sales tactic and that relationship allows you to maintain the spreads that we started with.
So I think all in we should be able to maintain those spreads.
The question would be what does the economy give us for actual loan growth in that type of competitive environment.
And John most of that pricing pressure really come from the upper end of C&amp;I.
Lower end of C&amp;I middle market and small business lending that pricing competition has been substantially less.
But that being said we're doing comparative pricing with third parties.
We sort of know we're at from a spread standpoint.
And I would say we have seen that spread compression in the upper end of C&amp;I but still above historical level.
And we're very comfortable with where we're pricing today and the discipline we're using in that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know we're not going to be able to talk about timeframes of either Morgan Keegan or eventual -- potential TARP pegs here but I just wanted to ask you to go through with us what things you need as far as markers or the glide path I guess as you're thinking through getting Morgan Keegan completed one way or the other and then starting to think about eventual TARP repayment.
Ken we really are not in position to comment on our strategic review with Morgan Keegan this morning and we hope that those -- that commentaries forthcoming in the near future but as of this morning we're not in position nor should we attempt to comment on that today.
And our strategy on TARP repayment really has not altered.
We still are being patient and prudent in that regard.
We believe we're doing the things necessary to put us in position to be able to do that at the appropriate time and really no change in that regard.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question just regard to the remaining risks left on the balance sheet you mentioned that you'd expect dispositions to slow in the context of continuing to see asset quality improvement.
But can you just give us some color on where you still see the opportunities to dispose of assets in the portfolio and related to our side to that obviously there wasn't a big improvement -- a big increase in the TDRs which you had put forth to us in the 10-Q but the magnitude is still pretty big.
So can you just remind us again like what the reserves are already against the TDR book as they've already been migrated through the portfolio? This is Matt Lusco.
As David stated earlier the disclosure of incremental TDRs is consistent with the new literature really did not materially in any way change our allowance composition on that.
But I'll tell you that as been said we continue to see in terms of all of our non-performing book we did continue to see a higher percentage of paying as agreed which we do believe provides us with a higher level of opportunity to dispose of those assets where we continue as Barb said to be aggressive in looking at our derisking activities our higher content loss in Land/Condo/Single Family as just slight at little north of $2 billion.
That's the segment we've continued to try and work down by derisking activities and I think we'll continue to be just as aggressive as we can on that.
It varies market to market.
We see better opportunities in some of the larger metro market than we do in others.
But we do continue to -- that is a critical part of our plans and we're working it as aggressively as we can.
This is Grayson.
I'll just add to Matt's comments as Barb had said earlier our stressed loan portfolio is getting more granular in nature and these loans are in a smaller denomination than what we've seen a year ago substantially.
And we do still have many interested buyers and we are still able to dispose of assets at economic positions that makes sense.
We haven't seen a lot of change in that.
Obviously the valuations are still under pressure in many markets and we have to adjust to that in each and every month.
But so far our strategy remains intact and we're still executing that strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had is a follow-up to Ken's question and is for Barb.
And I apologize in advance that this will probably be a compound question.
With regards to the additional $1 billion of Investor Real Estate TDRs that were identified under the new accounting policy could you tell us specifically what in the change in accounting guidelines caused you to reclassify this? What composition of this billion is income producing today? And what in your restructuring or the way you restructured these notes gives you confidence that you don't need to further provide for this $1 billion? Okay.
The literature itself suggested that when you do a renewal you need to ensure that you obtain a market rate because these loans are substandard in nature which means they have a deficiency that we have noted.
That brings that into question what is the appropriate market rate and we don't believe that that is an easy number to find.
We believe that we would be talking something probably double digits.
So on the majority of these credits that we’ve gone ahead and renewed -- we have gone ahead and renewed them for increased interest rates in many instances or even additional collateral support.
But clearly we're not able to get ourselves comfortable with that.
We would go ahead and make a substandard loan today at any rate.
And that's really that defining factors is that we won't go ahead and put new substandard loans on the book.
So by definition all loans that are in the Investor Real Estate portfolio that we are renewing that are substandard will be considered as troubled debt restructures and again that's what led to the increase in the TDRs.
But as Matt and Grayson and others have pointed out as we think about our reserving methodology these have all been generally reserved for.
As we said it was less than the $20 million in tax all in as we lift it with the impact of our TDRs were.
So we're feeling comfortable with our process number one.
And then number two as we continue with an ongoing dialogue with our customers which really is ongoing it's not stop and start.
We're able to look forward and say there will be a number of these credits and in due course will be restructured and they are no longer considered as a substandard loan they get back to a profited category.
And at that time we would hope they will come out of the TDR status.
Let me add one thing to that.
The TDR designation is an accounting matter.
And as Barb mentioned it does not have anything to do with how we calculate our reserves.
These aren't restructurings the bulk of which you saw the increase were not restructurings they were renewals in ordinary course.
And so as you look at the TDR the disclosures and you’re going to see a lot of disclosures going through 10-Q the better disclosures that we have are the criticized and classified loans and the reserves related to that and that really gets back to Ken your question that you had earlier if you're still on reserves with TDRs.
You need to look at the criticized and classifieds and that's some better information available out there.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just as a follow-up could you I guess give us a sense of -- on how much of the total accruing TDRs are income producing? And also during the renewal process if you get updated appraisals during renewal? I'll answer the second part of the question which is we do get updated appraisals as we do our renewals.
We have a pretty standard process around that and we've ensure Erika that we keep our tenders short of bills.
So generally what we've done is it has been a strategy of ours is to keep the tenders short to make sure that the renewals is done in one year increments that we may stay close to the customer close to their financial situation versus renewing something for a 2 or 3-year period which you could actually lose sight.
This is Grayson.
A point Barb made is important to note I mean at the beginning of the cycle we made a very conscious decision to start reducing our tender.
And most of our -- as a big percentage of our commercial real estate loans did all the tenant in one year.
And so when these loans come up for renewal to David's point when we look at TDRs as an accounting designation and we looked at we're renewing a credit that we've got risk rated substandard then the first question is is it a substandard loan? Yes or no? If it is then you have to ask yourself the question on the literature what is the correct market rate that you would do that loan at.
And if you would look historically most of the loans moving into a TDR status were restructured.
In our case it would be predominantly consumer mortgages that we have made some sort of concession on that moved in there.
On the commercial side it's was really the restructures that we had done in an A B note methodology.
But today under the current literature you're going to see renewals where renewals go in and if it's substandard and we can't define a market rate then by definition it's going to get designated as a TDR.
Just to let you know you asked how much is in TDR related Investor Real Estate.
The total is about $1.5 billion.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question was income producing versus still in construction phase.
Yes we'll have to get back with you.
We don't have that breakdown in front of us.
But Erika I would mention I guess out of our total Investor Commercial Real Estate portfolio construction now just comprises slightly over $1 billion of the entire portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess just more broadly on credit one of the issues.
It feels like everyone is trying to get their arms around is for the past 2 years 3 years it's been easy to explain why you have more credit issues than the average bank because you were heavy in real estate and you were heavy in the Southeast.
And now that we all see a lot of the real estate heavy banks improving at a faster and more consistent rate.
And we see some of your Southeast peers improving at a faster and more consistent rate I guess when you go through the same process of benchmarking why do you think your credit is slower to improve at this point in the cycle than some of your peers? Clearly when you look at our portfolio we went into this with cash attrition in the Southeast and in particular in Florida and Georgia which had been some of the more stressed markets in the country.
But certainly in our footprint the most stressed.
And clearly when you're seeing improvement with questions -- the pace of improvement and the consistency of improvement we continue to work through the challenges we have in the portfolio.
The progress is being made.
That being said the pace of economic recovery in the markets we're operating in in large part are going to drive the recovery of our customers.
We're working through it.
You're seeing improvements month after month quarter after quarter but it's incremental this juncture.
Obviously we would love to see a faster pace and are taking actions to accelerate that on our own balance sheet.
But in the absence of real economic recovery this is going to be slower than we had anticipated.
Barb? Brian the other thing that I would add is that as I look at what did come into the migration for the non-performing loans for this quarter.
Between the Atlanta Sandy Springs area and Miami that accounted for 22% of the inflow.
So I would consider those to be our most stressed markets clearly the rest of our markets as you look in terms of the percentage that they provided on the NPL migration in was not great but those 2 markets themselves drove as I said the 22% of the inflow.
And it really speaks to what's happening with valuation and just the soft economy in both Atlanta and Miami that continues.
I'll add one thing too.
This is David.
In terms of acknowledging that we have the credit that you laid out that's why we have a $3 billion loan loss reserve which is 3.7% 3% of the total loans which is higher than most as well.
Research Division</strong> That's all extremely helpful.
And if I can follow-up the Atlanta and Miami -- can you remind us I mean assuming most of those inflows are in Atlanta and Miami Investor Real Estate how much Investor Real Estate is there left in those 2 markets? Well I don't have that number off the top of my head.
Again we can get back to you on that.
We'll get back to you.
We don't have that with us this morning.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could sneak in one last one.
How significant is the roll-off of swaps next year? And is that factored into the outlook for kind of a flattish NIM going forward? In total which is factored already into my comment that we should be able to maintain the stable margin but if you kind of broke it apart -- the pieces apart you'll be in that 7 to 8 basis point range.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions one on the asset sales that you did this quarter.
Can you give us a sense as to where you ended up marking them relative to what they were on the books for? Yes we did a couple of bulk sales of smaller loans.
And again with or within that 10% again I would call that the liquidity premium on the bulk sales.
On the balance of the sales that we did we were right on where our marks were.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did that at all factor into NCOs or is that embedded within the expenses? No that would be again as we move them into held for sale they show up in the net charge-off line.
When they're in held for sale they would show up as an expense.
When we sell them out of held for sales and we sold a total of $660 million overall of which coming out of held for sale we sold $244 million of the non-performing and a further $163 million of accruing loans.
OREO sales this quarter were $146 million.
I would add that our experience continues to be pretty consistent over this year with our derisking activities that we really have.
As Barb said that 10% liquidity discount has just been what's flowed through beyond a levels of marks and allowance we’ve already provided.
Predictability and consistency in marks has just gotten much better as this cycle has gone along.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so on a Q-on-Q basis the impact into the NCR ratio is fairly flat or it's a little bit lighter? Is that right? Our net charge-off percentage is slightly elevated by the derisking activity.
If you really take out the derisking activities and looked at more of a normal flow of streams we'd be down from 250 to more like 170 or so.
Betsy if you try to get it from each quarter that liquidity discounts been about the same and we actually have dispositions in each of the quarter transfers roughly close to the same numbers.
So it's flattish when you look at the provision component of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately and it might be too early to answer this question but I just wanted to get it out there the FHFA did announce yesterday some new program guidelines around HARP? And it sounded like investor properties were going to be eligible.
They're talking about small numbers maybe doubling the size of the program under the new guidelines.
I'm wondering if you've taken a look at that to the degree that that might be helpful or impactful for you? We did.
This is David.
We looked at some rough numbers to see what that might impact us.
There's been you've seen all kinds of numbers in terms of how many mortgages that might affect maybe 1 million mortgages.
For us we think that number in terms of prepayment exposures that we would have would be in the range for a period of $20 million to $40 million perhaps.
Your final question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
This is Steve joining in for Gerard.
I just got one question on the NPL inflows.
You guys had 63% that was current and paying.
Do you know if that's consistent with the last couple of quarters? It's higher.
It's higher than the last few quarters.
48% last quarter and it's been tracking up each and every quarter as we've gone along.
So as you look at just really quickly as you look at the third quarter again overall non-performing loan portfolio 45% paying as agreed last quarter 42%; a year ago 36%.
So you can see it's been tracking up incrementally every quarter.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Hall for closing remarks.
Well thank you everyone for their time and attention today.
We very much appreciate it.
Hoped that we answered some of your questions and we will stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corp.'s Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Kelly and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions]  I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in our call this morning.
Our presenters today are Grayson Hall our President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Also here with us this morning and available to answer questions are Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Let me also remind you that in this call we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
I'll now turn it over to Grayson.
Thank you List and welcome to everyone to Regions' Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and are pleased to have this opportunity to update you on the solid progress we made this past year in executing our business plans and building a stronger core franchise as well as our expectations for continued progress in 2012.
Although the environment has clearly remained challenged our 2011 results demonstrated that our disciplined business plans and focus on the customer is working.
Total loan production for the year was a solid $60 billion.
Of that Business Services accounted for $51 billion or 83% including $15 billion of new loan production a 14% increase over last year.
Consumer banking loan production accounted for $9 billion in 2011 driven by strength in mortgage indirect auto and credit card.
Loan growth was fueled by commercial and industrial loan balances which on average increased 11% for the full year.
Offsetting this growth was the Investor Real Estate loan portfolio which favorably declined over $5 billion in 2011 or 33% of outstandings as we continued to consistently and aggressively de-risk our balance sheet.
Average low cost deposits for the full year grew more than $4 billion in 2011 or nearly 6% which led to a 29-basis-point decline in total deposit cost as a result of this favorable shift in deposit mix.
Credit quality metrics meaningfully improved in 2011 as demonstrated by 29% decline in net charge-offs a 24% decrease in nonperforming assets a 40% decrease in inflows of nonperforming loans and a 35% reduction in Business Services criticized loans which are our earliest indicator of problem loans for the future.
We also sharply reduced our credit-related costs in 2011 with full year provision down $1.3 billion or 47% for 2010 while continuing to maintain a solid reserve level to net loans of 3.54%.
Although 2011 revenues were down due to lower security gains excluding these securities transactions our revenues held relatively steady despite legislative regulatory and interest rate challenges.
Total expenses were higher due to fourth quarter's goodwill impairment charge associated with Morgan Keegan.
However excluding the goodwill impairment charge and last year's regulatory charge and related tax benefit as a result of our continued focus on cost full year noninterest expenses from continuing operations were down 5% aided by a 4% reduction in headcount and the elimination of 700 000 square feet of excess facility space.
Additionally we further strengthened our capital base increasing our Tier 1 common equity ratio by approximately 65 basis points to an estimated 8.5%.
As recently announced we reached an agreement to sell our broker-dealer operation Morgan Keegan to Raymond James for $930 million.
As part of the transaction Morgan Keegan is also expected to pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing providing total consideration of $1.18 billion.
As disclosed Morgan Asset Management and Regions  Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale and remain part of Regions Wealth Management organization.
To reiterate the transaction reduces our overall risk profile provides substantial liquidity at the holding company and modestly improves key capital ratios.
It also establishes a strong long-term partnership with Raymond James which we anticipate will provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits while also enhancing our ability to serve our existing customers.
Importantly we also expect going forward that we will maintain important business relationships with Morgan Keegan associates that have developed over many years of working together to serve our customers' needs.
The divestiture will strengthen Regions' overall focus and discipline on our core banking franchise.
Although it's been less than 2 weeks since the announcement we have been working productively and urgently to achieve a first quarter close of this transaction.
Results for 2011 included fourth quarter net after-tax $731 million goodwill impairment charge related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan which is reflected in both discontinued and continuing operations.
As a result Regions reported fourth quarter and full year losses per share of $0.48 and $0.34 respectively.
And from continuing operations Regions' fourth quarter and full year losses were $0.11 and $0.02 respectively.
Excluding the impairment charge Regions' fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations was $0.09 per fully diluted share leading to full year earnings per share of $0.17 on the same basis.
Importantly adjusted pretax pre-provision income has now exceeded the loan loss provision for 3 quarters in a row clearly demonstrating improved underlying fundamentals.
Fourth quarter results from continuing operations also reflected lower credit-related costs driven by broad-based credit quality improvement.
This includes a 16% linked quarter decline in net loan charge-offs and a 26% decline in gross inflows of nonperforming loans.
Fee-based revenues in the quarter were negatively impacted by the implementation of the Durbin Amendment on October 1.
However new revenue initiatives and changes to our checking account fee structure helped to offset some of the lost debit interchange fee income.
Also we continue to experience growth in debit card activity as total transactions have risen more than 2% from a year ago and total spending is up 3.6%.
And now we're also seeing healthy growth in credit card transaction volume which was up 2.5% linked quarter.
We were able to modestly increase our interest margin third to fourth quarter and continued improvement in both deposit mix and deposit cost offset long term low interest rates on yields in our securities portfolio.
All in all our underlying results and positive trends in certain key areas demonstrate that we are successfully executing our business plans by staying focused on our customer and that we are making considerable progress positioning us well to take advantage of future opportunities.
I'll now turn the call over to David who will provide you with fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial details after which I'll return to make some additional comments prior to opening up the call for questions.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
I want to begin on Slide 4 with a summary of our fourth quarter 2011 and full year results.
As Grayson pointed out due to the after-tax goodwill impairment charge in the amount of $731 million associated with the process of selling Morgan Keegan we reported a fourth quarter loss of $602 million or $0.48 per diluted share.
$478 million on the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million in continuing operations.
Therefore we incurred a loss from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of $135 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
Excluding the goodwill impairment income from continuing operations was $118 million or $0.09 per share.
Fourth quarter's results from continuing operations were solid and primarily reflecting lower credit costs.
This morning's discussion unless otherwise noted will focus on fourth quarter results from continuing operations excluding goodwill impairment as we believe this provides a clearer picture of fundamental trends.
Starting with a quick overview pretax pre-provision income or PPI was $485 million or 5% below the third quarter.
As expected service charges were negatively impacted by the implementation of debit interchange legislation which drove the decline in PPI.
Net interest income was steady linked quarter while the net interest margin was up 4 basis points to 3.08%.
Noninterest revenues were down 1% on a linked quarter basis while noninterest expenses were up 2%.
Now let's take a look at some of the quarter's highlights starting on Slide 5 with the credit quality trends that continue to improve.
Inflows of nonperforming loans declined to $561 million or 26% from the third quarter's $755 million.
The mix of inflows continues to be more income-producing commercial real estate loans which have cash flows and tend to have lower loss severities.
It is important to note that Land/Condo/Single Family portfolio which now totals $1.8 billion makes up 10% or $58 million of the inflows.
Of this portfolio 20% or $373 million have already been moved to non-accruing status.
It is important to note that 48% of all Business Services gross nonperforming loans were current and paying as agreed at the end of the quarter.
This is up 11 percentage points from a year ago and compares to 45% in the third quarter.
Let's move to nonperforming loans on Slide 6.
Nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale decreased $338 million or 12% linked quarter and $788 million or 25% year-over-year.
During the fourth quarter we executed $306 million in strategic sales of problem assets primarily out of held for sale.
We also moved $334 million of problem loans to held for sale.
Throughout 2011 we were able to reduce nonperforming assets by almost $1 billion or 24%.
Notably Business Services criticized and classified loans continued to decline down 13% or $935 million from the third quarter and down $3.4 billion or 35% from one year ago.
Importantly criticized and classified loan trends are one of the best and earliest indicators of credit quality.
As a result we anticipate that 2011's marked improvement in overall credit quality trends will continue into 2012.
More specifically we expect our migration into nonperforming status in the first quarter to approximate the level of this past quarter.
Moving onto the loan loss provision on Slide 7.
Net charge-offs declined $81 million or 16% linked quarter and for the full year declined 29%.
This quarter's disposition activity added $141 million to fourth quarter's charge-off level.
However markdowns associated with these disposed assets had mostly been provided for in our loan loss allowance.
Excluding net charge-offs related to disposition activity net charge-offs were down 8% linked quarter.
Net charge-offs exceeded the loan loss provision by $135 million marking the third straight quarter we have provided less in net charge-offs.
Our coverage ratios remain strong.
At year end our allowance for loan loss -- loan and lease losses to nonperforming loans coverage stood at 116% up 15 basis points from last year.
Meanwhile our loan loss allowance to net loans declined from 3.84% at the end of 2010 to 3.54% at the end of 2011.
From any metric observed you will find much improved credit quality at Regions.
Now let's move onto the balance sheet on Slide 8.
Fourth quarter's average loan yield increased 4 basis points to 4.35%.
This increase primarily reflects slightly higher LIBOR rates.
Ending loans for the year were down approximately 6% which reflects a favorable 33% decline in Investor Real Estate partially offset by a 9% increase in the commercial and industrial portfolio.
In addition we added $1.2 billion of credit card loans and indirect auto loans to the balance sheet during 2011.
Average commercial and industrial loans grew $357 million or 1.5% third to fourth quarter.
However other portfolio runoff primarily Investor Real Estate more than offset this growth causing the total loan portfolio to decline 2.2% linked quarter.
Line utilization on commercial and industrial loans was modestly lower at 42.6% but up from 40.3% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We continue to see growth in our specialized industries in particular healthcare and franchise restaurant.
In addition we are expanding other industry practices such as technology and defense.
Noteworthy total commercial and industrial commitments rose $3.7 billion in 2011 ending the year at just under $30 billion.
This along with other factors lead us to expect continued growth in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio in 2012.
Investor Real Estate loans declined another $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter resulting in year-end balances of $10.7 billion or $5.2 billion less than year-end 2010.
This portfolio now comprises only 14% of our total loan portfolio down from 19% a year ago.
We do expect the Investor Real Estate portfolio will continue to decline in 2012 albeit at a slower pace.
On the liability side of the balance sheet as shown on Slide 9 deposit mix and cost continued to improve in the fourth quarter.
Average deposits were down 1% in the fourth quarter driven by a $1.6 billion decline in CDs partially offset by an increase in low-cost deposits.
Given our continued success in growing low-cost deposits average time deposits fell to 21% of outstanding deposits down from fourth quarter 2010's level of 25%.
This positive mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining to 40 basis points for the quarter down 6 basis points from third quarter and down 24 basis points from the end of 2010.
Related our total funding costs improved 7 basis points linked quarter to 68 basis points.
Additional opportunities remained to reduce our deposit cost as we have approximately $11.7 billion of CDs that carry an average of 1.46% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in 2012.
This compares to a current average going-on rate for new CDs approximating 30 to 35 basis points.
Now let's turn to net interest income on Slide 10.
Actual equivalent net interest income for the fourth quarter was flat.
However the resulting net interest margin increased 4 basis points to 3.08% benefiting from deposit pricing and an $843 million decline in average excess cash at the Federal Reserve.
Late in the quarter we repaid the final $2 billion of maturing TLGP debt which resulted in a lower ending balance of cash held at the Federal Reserve.
Consequently excess cash reserves negatively impacted the margin 14 basis points in this quarter an improvement from third quarter's 16 basis points.
As expected long-term interest rates led to higher prepayments in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio which negatively impacted our securities yield resulting in a decline of 25 basis points linked quarter.
The net interest margin was negatively impacted by 7 basis points related to these prepayments.
Looking into 2012 we expect this portfolio to grow modestly as we deploy excess cash reserves.
And as previously noted with the opportunities that remain on the liability side of our balance sheet and based on our expectation of a  low-rate environment we expect our net interest margin to continue to incrementally improve this year.
Let's turn to noninterest revenue on Slide 11.
Fourth quarter noninterest revenues declined 1% from the third quarter to $507 million.
Fourth quarter's implementation of debit interchange legislation reduced service charges $47 million linked quarter in line with our expectations.
One thing in particular I'd like to highlight is that total 2011 service charges were relatively stable as compared with 2010 despite the negative impact of Regulation E and debit interchange legislation illustrating our ability to quickly adapt our business model.
We've been able to successfully mitigate these hurdles by generating new revenue streams and through the ongoing product restructuring of deposit accounts and we expect to completely mitigate this over time.
Mortgage revenue declined 16% linked quarter reflecting reduced benefit from MSR and related hedging activities.
Production in the fourth quarter totaled $1.8 billion bringing our full year production to $6.3 billion.
Further the extended Home Affordable Refinance Program or HARP 2 is expected to foster mortgage production into 2012.
Moving on to Slide 12 noninterest expenses excluding the goodwill impairment charge were up 2% linked quarter.
During the fourth quarter we incurred a $16 million expense related to Visa litigation.
Excluding this item and the goodwill impairment expenses were relatively flat with the third quarter.
For the full year noninterest expenses excluding goodwill impairment and the regulatory charge were down $175 million or 5%.
Regions has successfully been able to create and grow new revenue streams while also reducing expenses.
Credit-related expenses declined $23 million or 23% linked quarter primarily related to lower other real estate expenses.
Fourth quarter 2011 credit-related expenses are 9% of total expenses down from 14% in fourth quarter 2010.
Additionally and as previously announced in the fourth quarter we consolidated 41 branches.
Furthermore headcount declined over 1 000 positions or nearly 4% during 2011.
It is down 6% over the last 2 years.
We will continue to seek expense savings without sacrificing investment opportunities or compromising high service levels our customers have come to expect and deserve at Regions.
As a result we expect 2012 expenses to be slightly down from the 2011 level.
Moving on to capital and liquidity on Slide 13 we've maintained solid capital and held a favorable liquidity position throughout the year.
The Tier 1 common ratio increased to 8.5% and the Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 13.2%.
In addition our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios are above their respective 7% and 8.5% minimums.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remained solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 81% and cash held at the Federal Reserve totaled approximately $5 billion at year end.
Lastly based on our interpretation our liquidity coverage ratio is above the 100% Basel III requirement.
Overall this year's results show progress that we've made.
Our core business performance improved as we achieved sustainable profitability on a continuing operations basis.
We have substantially improved our credit risk profile and further strengthened our balance sheet from a liquidity and capital standpoint.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thank you David.
I want to spend just a few moments talking about 2012.
Although we are encouraged by recent improvements in various economic indicators in particular the unemployment rate and GDP growth we do believe that the economy remains challenged by housing and unemployment and the pace of economic recovery does appear to be incremental.
That being said we are positioning our franchise to continue our recovery on asset quality and earnings performance.
With this backdrop we expect to be very disciplined in our focus on fundamentals focusing on the basics of banking focusing on our customers and continuing to take steps to position ourselves for growth when the economic recovery demonstrates sustainable momentum.
By providing customers with superior service and a broad array of well-priced products we are able to deepen existing relationships as well as profitably grow our business.
In fact we believe our competitive advantage is driven by customer loyalty service quality and disciplined bankers and that is what will ultimately differentiate us in the marketplace.
Regarding noninterest revenue in 2012 over time we expect to recover the estimated $180 million loss due to the interchange pricing changes.
We are seeing early success in recent introduced suite of products and services that offer customers new choices on how to bank with Regions.
We are encouraged by the positive results of our changes in checking account fee structures.
As we transition from free to fee-eligible we have to sell into legitimate customer needs and deliver value at a fair price.
We are building a stronger and more consistent banking model that customers appreciate and respect.
Given our assumption of a continued low-interest-rate low-growth environment we expect growing net interest income will remain challenging.
Additional improvement in funding mix and pricing should offset pressure on earning asset yields but our margin will remain relatively stable with incremental improvement.
We believe that commercial and industrial loan growth was strong in 2011 and we are continuing to add resources into our specialized industries and will do so throughout 2012.
As a result we expect continued commercial and industrial loan growth in 2012.
At the same time we plan to continue de-risking some segments of our loan portfolio although the pace of runoff is expected to moderate to some degree.
Overall we believe consumers and small businesses will remain cautious about spending and borrowing but we do anticipate incremental improvement.
Obviously we continue to focus on legislative and regulatory changes in our industry and adjust our business model products and services as necessary.
We are working every day to restore financial confidence and to provide financial products to stimulate economic growth across our markets.
In our business we maintain a disciplined focus on streamlining and driving expenses down.
However innovation and new product development are critical and do require some level of investment.
As such we will be diligent about managing our resources to achieve the right balance of efficiency effectiveness and growth.
In fact 2011 adjusted expenses are lower than those of the past 3 years despite increasing environmental costs.
We have become much more efficient reducing our operating expenses even as we added new products and services.
And it is important I think to note that during the same time customer service has actually improved at Regions and this is supported externally by J.D.
Power by Gallup and by Greenwich.
Improving credit quality metrics combined with sharp reduction in Investor Real Estate portfolio are driving our expectation for reduction in loan charge-offs and provision in 2012.
We continue to de-risk our portfolio through the liquidation of problem assets and foreclosed properties.
We expect our overall credit trends to improve and nonperforming assets are anticipated to decrease as the year progresses.
To wrap up in 2011 we reached 3 important milestones.
Our core franchise has strengthened and we do appear to have achieved sustainable profitability from continuing operations excluding the recent goodwill impairment.
All of our credit quality-related metrics experienced marked improvement throughout the year.
And shortly after year end we completed the strategic review of Morgan Keegan culminating in the announced sale to Raymond James.
While we are encouraged by all of these accomplishments we recognize there's still much work to be done.
As outlined earlier we expect 2012 to be another year of slow incremental economic recovery but we remain committed to the ongoing successful execution of our business plans and we are taking decisive steps to deliver improved results.
We are confident that we continue to make progress and importantly we believe this progress translates into improved returns to shareholders.
Before we turn to questions as you know we're among the banks required to participate in the Comprehensive Capital Analysis Review or CCAR as it's being called using stringent stress test scenarios outlined by the Federal Reserve.
Our capital plan has been submitted.
We expect to receive results by mid-March.
We look forward to receiving that analysis which will give us clarity on a number of issues we believe that are important to our organization.
That being said it is premature for us to comment beyond this point at this time.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us about the amount of total environmental-related credit costs in your operating expenses? And then more specifically around the -- how we should think about the decline in those costs through 2012 and then beyond? Yes John this is David.
We have approximately $300 million that are still in the environmental costs.
And as we continue to go through 2012 and our credit metrics improve nonperforming inflows come down ultimate nonperformers come down we expect those to trend down in 2012 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then related to that can you -- or at least on the credit funds still can you talk about your expectation for the balance of TDRs whether we can still expect some increases there on a quarterly basis as you work through some of the CRE? Barb I'll ask -- I'll ask Barb Godin to comment on that.
Yes we anticipate that our risks [ph] and TDRs to remain relatively flat.
As you know we've kept our tenure on those pretty short and the reason for that is so that we can keep our customer talking to us instead of waiting for an extended period of time.
So with that and as the markets improve we will then start to see the TDRs roll off.
But until the economy improves I would say you're going to see roughly the same level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly with your expectation for the margin to see some upside here through the year it's a little bit better than we had thought.
And I guess if you could just talk about what changed with your expectation there because I believe you had thought it would be flattish at first? And then are you seeing some stabilization in loan pricing at all? John I'll just make a couple of comments and I'll ask David to comment as well.
When you look at the margin we do anticipate a continued incremental improvement in the margin.
When you look at our margin relative to peers our margin's lower than the peer median and we've been working hard to bring that margin back in the line where it should be.
Clearly we've made a lot of progress on the deposit side; still more work to do there.
We've brought it much more in line with where it ought to be.
The loan pricing is really done one loan at a time and it is a competitive marketplace where every basis point is a value that's debated.
And we're making slow but steady progress on the loan side.
Obviously the reinvestment rate on our investment portfolio was challenged and we will continue to see that in this rate environment.
But we are seeing the opportunity to continue to incrementally improve our margin through 2012.
David do you want to add to that? Yes I'll add to that.
Grayson hit on a lot of them.
We do believe the impact of the lower NPLs will be positive -- lower excess cash at the Federal Reserve.
As we put that to work and are less defensive with our liquidity than we've been from a deposit cost standpoint while we improved 6 basis points over the quarter we still think -- we're at 40 basis points; we think we can clearly get in lower than that into the 30s.
And I think if you look at our investment portfolio we started to make some changes there going into different asset classes and so you'll see some movement there.
And then we've been pretty disciplined with our loan portfolio.
We are ensuring we are paid for the risk that we take and we feel like we're going to be able to book loans that are properly priced.
And all that together there's 5 or 6 points John when you add them together.
It shows an incremental improvement in the margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
One is David as you look at the Morgan Keegan divestiture now that we can see that discontinued kind of operations it looks like on average it produced about $20 million per quarter in earnings.
But if you take that earnings away it would be about a 5% dilution probably to your earnings power.
In comparison issuing $1 billion which is basically the cash you got out of the divestiture it could have created close to 15% dilution.
So when you finally see the deal done we only get about 10 basis points in capital ratio improvement.
But really this deal was about the cash and the substitution for having to issue that $1 billion in some common issuance down the road.
Well I think as Grayson mentioned in his comments really we're doing 3 things.
We're changing our risk profile so that we could focus on our core banking franchise.
Liquidity as you pointed out is very important to us.
That generated a substantial amount of liquidity.
And the capital was important as well.
And so if you look at all 3 of those and our continuing involvement with Raymond James -- don't discount that totally either -- I think your number is a little high in terms of its overall contribution -- core contribution.
We had about $0.01 relative to that.
So we think going forward that this was the right decision for our shareholders and we'll see what this relationship brings to us on a go-forward basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> The other thing that I was looking at was if you look at the release of loan loss reserve about $135 million and you talked about the disposition of your sales and said that the haircut that you took this quarter was basically already provided for which matches up your $141 million hit on disposition it was basically what you guided in the release in loan loss reduction this quarter.
Are you seeing enough improvement in the overall portfolio that we begin to see some release not just related to the impact from disposition but mainly from the broad portfolio as a whole? I'll make a couple of comments Marty and then ask Barb Godin to speak as well.
Clearly what we saw this quarter was that generally across every credit metric improvement -- but one thing I would point out we saw was we saw the ability for resolution improve marketably this quarter.
And as we look at the marks we're taking on loans we take our marks and then we also reserve.
As we moved it to held for sale we felt very confident in the marks and the reserves we had taken.
Dispositions continue to be a big part of our strategy and we've been consistent in that and I don't see us deviating from that at this point.
Barb comments? The only other comment I would make is as you look at the makeup of what came in and also match that up against the makeup of what we had in resolutions we're pretty well with that inflection point.
We're organically -- we're at neutral and any loan sales that we do clearly are impacting positively our NPL balances.
I'd also say as you look at our -- what we took in terms of a mark we took 41% on our loan sales of $307 million.
We had a 41% mark against that.
And again 10% of that was liquidity premium just given the way that we've disclosed the fees including a small group of loans that had a bulk sale associated with it et cetera.
So again we're feeling pretty good about the way we have our reserve matched up against those portfolios.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess what I'm really trying to get at is can the release begin to broaden out so that you actually don't have offsetting increase in losses from disposition you start to get just some release that starts to bring down the impact of the overall net charge-offs? Marty it's Matt Lusco.
Good question.
I would say that our allowance model really we look at it more in terms of our portfolio.
And it's balanced by I guess really the overall economic conditions we're seeing right now which as Grayson stated still remain relatively soft.
That being said today we've only released about $430 million of allowance so that -- yes we continue to believe we're appropriately reserved and we'll watch and see how the economic conditions moderate over the remainder of the year.
Yes I mean Marty the signs we've seen this quarter are encouraging and it's just a question of sustainability.
And we are encouraged but we're still being very disciplined about how we run our models and the projections we are making.
And as we continue to see early indicators obviously the drop in criticized and classified there was a clear drop in early-stage delinquencies late-stage delinquencies from fairly relatively flat.
So we're seeing a lot of signs that would tell us that the asset quality is improving.
But we keep running very disciplined models to make sure we're making the appropriate changes in that allowance as the numbers justify that.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just as I was trying to write down all your different points of guidance I just want to make sure I got it right.
So NIM will improve.
We've got C&amp;I loan growth but we have continued reductions in Investor Real Estate.
If that's right when you put it all together is there any range you can give us of where the overall loan book is likely to bottom? Or I guess at what level would the C&amp;I growth start outpacing the CRE declines? And then secondly would you expect the dollars of net interest income to grow from the fourth quarter base? Or is the NIM going up on a smaller balance sheet? I'll tell you -- just taking a couple of points Brian.
If you look at the opportunities for loan growth over the 2012 time horizon what we've seen is that we're seeing growth in C&amp;I as the predominant place we're seeing growth.
Our commitments have grown faster than our outstandings.
Most of that growth has been in the larger end of C&amp;I.
When you look at the marketplace it's been predominantly in the -- up into the larger syndicated markets.
We've stayed pretty disciplined in what we're putting on our books.
We've very much of a relationship-banking model.
Our core competency is really in that middle market and lower end of the upper corporate market.
We have had very good results through 2011.
That moderated a little bit in the latter part of 2011 and then we saw it accelerate in the last 2 months of the year.
Our pipelines are still very solid so we feel good about the growth there.
We feel good about the growth in our specialty industries in particular asset-based lending healthcare energy and we're still continuing to add resources into those segments.
So from a commercial standpoint we feel good about it.
I think when you look at the consumer side we still are seeing deleveraging on the part of the consumer but growth in auto to a strong degree.
Mortgage has been strong but we've not held much of that on our balance sheet.
We're holding very little of that.
We're mostly passing that through.
And so when you net it all together I think consumer is up slightly through '12.
And I think that when you look at the commercial it's going to be a question of how fast -- what's the pace of decline in that investor and commercial real estate portfolio.
And I think that is a question we ask ourselves all the time.
That's going to have more to do with the economic strength in this country.
As the economy recovers hopefully we see more demand in that segment.
Right now the strength that we're seeing in that segment is pretty much isolated to multifamily.
Brian this is David.
I'll add from an NII standpoint we do see a modest increase in the dollars as well so it's not just a shrinkage of the earning assets that drives the NIM up.
I think that rounds out your first question.
Research Division</strong> That does.
And I guess to follow up on TARP I know you're limited in kind of how your things -- what you can say about thinking about the timing.
But just as you think about the economics of TARP I guess one school of thought is that the preferred dividends are pretty significant drag to near-term earnings.
And even if you do a pretty sizable capital raise the EPS in the near term improves because you don't have that dividend anymore.
That pays like $0.14 a share per year.
And then the other school of thought is the longer you wait the better because even though you've got this EPS drag in the near term the preferred dividend is temporary while whatever shares you wish you are essentially permanent or I guess you can always buy it back in the future but you're issuing those shares forever.
So I mean as you think through just that economic trade-off between improvement in near-term earnings by canceling out the preferred dividend versus the long-term share count how do you think about the balance in the trade-off between those 2? Well you've brought up what we've been looking at for a long period of time.
We've been very disciplined and patient with regards to TARP.
We will continue to be that way.
But those are the things we look at in terms of immediate dilution versus what the dilution would be by paying the dividend.
And so we think we needed to get some other things taken care of that would be reflected in the market for our company which includes return to sustainable profitability getting credit metrics turning.
And we do those things and as we've demonstrated we think that all that actually gets taken care of in due course.
We don't have specific timing that we can talk about today relative to TARP.
As you know we submitted our capital plan and we expect to hear back in the middle of March on that.
And perhaps that will provide clarity with regards to what we do from there.
Yes I do think it's premature and it's inappropriate for us to give much specific guidance on that.
I do think the way you're thinking through the economics of the alternatives -- we had been laboring through those same analysis for several months now and as David said have been very patient and prudent in that regard.
And we will continue to be so.
But it is premature at this point in time for us to communicate anything in regard to that exercise.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
[Technical Difficulty] Inc.
Research Division</strong> One question on expenses.
You mentioned that they might be down in 2012 over 2011.
And I just wanted to check given the restatement post the Morgan Keegan sale can you give us a comparison basis of what you're thinking about as far as the expense starting point and then the kind of the go-to decline off of that? If you look at our core expenses that are adjusted expenses so it gets goodwill charged out of that that didn't have Morgan Keegan in it.
It's in our supplement.
I don't have the page number but it's off of that base for the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was that about $3.6 billion x the $250 million then? That's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I was looking in the supplement it's like $3.8 billion something minus its $2.62 million.
And that you're saying minus the $250 million and that's the core? That's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a little down off of $3.6 billion.
Okay.
The second question I had is you talked about this a little bit on the call a couple of weeks ago but I wanted to just follow up and try to get a bit more detail.
The litigation of reserve you'd mentioned on the call that that was a fair value but that didn't seem to be the max value.
So can you walk us through how it works with potential what's the max exposure on top of the charge that you did that you're going to take upon sale of Morgan Keegan and how that could work in the future? I will attempt to get you closer.
We do not have a maximum.
That question came up last call that we had: was that the maximum? It is not.
It is the fair value of our indemnification which is indemnifying the buyer for all of the pre-closing legal contingencies that exist at Morgan Keegan and there are several things that are embedded in that.
And that fair value number comes -- we get to that number by thinking through possibly with a third party.
Any related third party would ask for us to pay them to take that liability or that risk from us.
Those cases that are underneath that aren't necessarily probable and estimable under the current accounting guidance but they're fair value.
So we may not have any payments that we have to make out of that.
It also includes cost to defend us relative to all the litigation matters that are pre-closing issues.
So we have not had a maximum.
I can give you as kind of a reference point if you look in our previous disclosures in the legal footnote we talked about possible losses that we could have and we had a range on those possible losses in the 0 to $300 million.
These components of the litigation that you're reading about indemnification is a part of that range of 0 to $300 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then one last thing also related to the last call.
In the last call you mentioned that you want to keep 2 years of cash at the holding company even after a TARP repayment.
So can you just walk us through how you think about what 2 years of cash flow is in dollar terms so that we can try to understand how much cash you'll eventually need to get to the parent company on presuming an eventual TARP payment of $3.5 billion? Yes.
Ken I don't have those numbers.
I can have List follow up with you specifically on that.
But we've had a policy a long-standing policy that we would have 2 years' worth of debt service dividends and so forth in the parent company.
And all we're trying to say is we're going to continue to maintain that policy.
We think that's the right thing to do.
We think it's been an appropriate policy we've had in place for a good long time.
And the only thing we communicated in the last call is we plan to continue to adhere to that policy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just then tell us how much cash was at the parent company at March 31? At March or December? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry at December.
My bad.
We can get that number.
About $2.6 billion.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two unrelated questions.
First on the NPA inflows they've been coming down.
But obviously it's been a little bit of a bumpy leg down.
But clearly downward trends stable in 1Q.
I guess as we think from a timing point of view throughout 2012 are there any pluses and minuses that we should be focused on whether it's a bunch of loans coming due or seasonality? It feels like kind of one quarter in each of the last couple of years has had a blip up and any forecast of that that would be helpful in advance of course.
Matt this is Barb.
I would say the general projection is we're looking at that continuing to show improvement for 2012.
The last couple of years we've shown that there's a slight increase in the third quarter.
I would attribute that to seasonality.
The rise last quarter was not -- in the third quarter was not as big as the rise in 2010.
So we hope that it too would modify in 2012.
But if there's going to be any kind of a small bump it's likely to be in the third quarter.
But again even from where I sit right now we just see continued improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately as we think about capital build from here you still have I think about 50 basis points of disallowed DTA.
And obviously making money brings that back.
But just give us a sense of the timing of which you think you might get some of that back? Are there any nuances beyond just positive EPS that might allow some of that to come back? No Matt.
You've really got it it's based on projections.
We look at that every quarter.
We project out the next 12 months from the measurement date and we expect that to start coming in in 2012.
Won't have all of it but a decent portion of that comes into the capital calculation throughout 2012.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just putting it all together it seems like there's some DTA's coming back in some positive earnings and RWAs sound like they're still going to trickle down a little bit.
Do you think the Tier 1 common gets to the 9% range by the end of the year? No.
I think honestly we have a lot going on relative to our CCAR submission which includes our forecast of where we think capital ratios will be at any point in time along the 2 years.
And I think it'd be a little be premature to talk about specifics in terms of our capital plan right now.
We'll probably wait until we hear back from our supervisors.
That might be a more appropriate time.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 follow-up questions.
The first is on Matt's question with regard to the DTA.
With this year you have 3 years of GAAP loss.
Should we -- will the accountants get more worried about 3 years of GAAP loss with regards to your GAAP DTA? Or it's not as relevant because it's not the timing difference between the loan losses and the provision that caused that GAAP loss but it was the goodwill impairment? Yes from a GAAP standpoint different from what Matt just mentioned that was a regulatory issue and the past losses really aren't applicable to that conversation.
But from a GAAP standpoint we have to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax asset every quarter.
And at year end obviously our auditors sign off on that relative to the financial statements.
When we have to support that we do look at continuing losses but we also look at the content of those continuing losses.
And when you have an unusual event or item like a goodwill impairment charge you can take that into account in terms of providing support and basis for whether or not you need to have a valuation allowance.
We did not add a valuation allowance.
We don't believe one is required other than a small one that we have for some state net operating loss carryforwards.
But we don't believe that there's any big valuation allowance required for deferred tax assets.
Our core operations are profitable and have been for the year and so I think -- and we expect that to continue.
So we don't see the need for valuation allowance.
Research Division</strong> That was helpful.
And my second follow-up question is on the guidance for NIM improvement.
That does not include any potential financing plans or issuance of debt regarding potential TARP repayment correct? Well we get into specifics related to the capital plan.
I would just say that taking into account everything that we think we need to do our NIM would increase.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the regulatory constraints on the Regions Bank subsidiaries' ability to upstream capital to the holding company? So really kind of dividend capacity in 2012? Craig as you know the regulators have rules in terms of the earnings that you have to have looking at the last 2 years' worth of earnings that you have to have without receiving any approval from them.
So you'll see that disclosed in our 10-K in terms of without prior approval what that number is.
I don't have that with me right at this moment but that's really the constraint without prior regulatory approval.
Research Division</strong> And do you by any chance have the common equity Tier 1 level of the Regions Bank offhand? I can get that for you if you give me just a minute.
I can tell you the leverage.
Research Division</strong> And what's the Tier 1 leverage? It is -- I said that too quick.
9.6.
It was 9 points in the third quarter and 9.6 at the end of the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a follow-up while you're looking for that.
In the 4-basis-point increase in loan yields if we kind of oversimplify this trend when we looking at what was driven by the change in rates mainly LIBOR and what was driven by the change in spreads repricing? How can you kind of -- how can you break up that 4 basis point in terms of the contribution? I don't know that I have the specifics in terms of whether it was -- what amount we have for repricing? Research Division</strong> Was it mostly repricing then? Most of it would be through repricing.
There's a slight improvement in LIBOR but I think most of that came from repricing and new loans.
Tier 1 at the bank -- Tier 1 risk base at the bank is 12.86.
And the leverage was 9.7 instead of 9.6.
Research Division</strong> I guess the Tier 1 common ratio was in the mid-9s? No 12.7.
Research Division</strong> I thought that was the Tier 1 risk-base not the Tier 1 common? Yes that's right.
That wouldn't be really applicable anyway to the bank the common.
Your next question comes from the line of Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As you guys have talked about the I guess the ongoing relationship with Raymond James can you just talk about the nature of what that venture is and what the revenue stream consists of there? Jefferson I think it's a little early to do that.
I mean we have started a very productive relationship and held conversations going on in a number of fronts.
Since we've signed a definitive agreement with Raymond James 2 weeks ago we've had a number of meetings and we continue to be encouraged about where we think that relationship is going.
It's a little early for us to start assigning revenue streams to that today because clearly we're still try to define some of that.
But I would bring you back to the fact that Morgan Keegan and the associates there and the leadership team there has been part of this company since 2001.
There's some very strong relationships built there.
I'd also remind you that Raymond James has been a long-time customer of the bank and so we know the leadership team there very well.
And we continue to believe that there are future opportunities that are undefined at this point in time but we fully intend to define those over the next several weeks.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question.
On the write-downs that you guys took could you share with us what the dollar amount was for Morgan Keegan? And then in the goodwill impairment charge for ongoing operations what are the operations for those that was applied to? Yes.
David can explain that but the goodwill calculation is really based off the segment reporting we're doing every quarter.
Yes Gerard I know it seems odd but the goodwill calculation -- the first half of the goodwill calculation is at the segment level.
The segment included primarily Morgan Keegan what we sold to Raymond James but excluded trust.
And so when we evaluate the whole segment's goodwill we ended up impairing virtually all of it.
Well we did impair all of it.
But you have that impairment and allocate that impairment.
The allocation of the impairment then has to be made on a relative fair value basis between the discontinued operation and the continuing operation.
And that's why you end up having the impairment attributed to continuing.
And it looks like it was related to trust; it is not.
It's related to the segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Speaking of Morgan Keegan are there any reps and warranties regarding the large producers at Morgan Keegan if they leave before the deal closes? Would that impact the price? There is a -- if you look at the agreement that was signed that we filed you can see that there is a post-closing adjustment language in there that talks about production and retention of large producers.
We continue to be very confident that we've got a retention plan in place and enthusiasm in place with the team to hold those producers in place.
But that risk is there.
That risk Gerard lasts for 90 days post-closing.
And when you read the agreement you'll see that there was a rep that the buyer put in an appropriate retention plan on top of the existing retention that existed with the company to reduce the risk of revenue producers leaving because they don't want revenue producers leaving.
Nor do we.
And we think that that's been taken care of.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the final question is when you guys get back to normalcy on earnings and profitability what type of efficiency ratio do you think you're going to need to get to to reach that normalcy and profitability? We've talked for a while now about wanting to get to into that high '50s low '60s rate.
We actually think that we can do -- be in the 50 range in that mid to upper 50 range from an efficiency ratio in time as certain costs abate as we continue to do and improve from a revenue standpoint as well.
Your next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> This is probably for Matt.
I just wanted to get any kind of update in your thinking in terms of the timing or what you all have to do to get upgraded back to investment grade status and the timing of that and then what that would mean for you from a financial standpoint in terms of lifting some drag.
This is David.
I'll take that Kevin.
We've spent a lot of time with rating agencies explaining kind of what our plan has been.
We think our continued -- our return to sustainable profitability and our return to credit metrics were critical to getting our ratings stabilized in some cases and working on upgrades in the others.
And we think that timing --  and to the extent we can continue to execute on our business plan our credit continues to improve as we demonstrated through the fourth quarter that we'd be in position to receive an appropriate adjustment to our ratings.
So we clearly can't -- we don't know what the rating agencies will do when they will do it but we know the things that we need to do which is that continued improvement in performance including improvement in credit metrics.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is just more of a housekeeping thing but your line item within fee income brokerage investment banking capital markets that's a very small amount obviously now post-Morgan Keegan.
What's left in there? And is that going to be something you continue to break out? Or is that going to be folded within something else going forward? Yes we've looked at that.
We'll probably change the title on a go-forward basis but it's got our capital markets group in there.
We do foreign exchange and derivative transactions and hedging things of that nature.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of I guess housekeeping questions.
First of all in terms of the Durbin mitigation you said you certainly plan to mitigate most if not all of that.
I'm just curious as to the timing of that and if you're getting somewhat faster mitigation than you previously anticipated given some of the steps that you've already rolled out that you've discussed earlier in the call.
No.
I mean what we've said is we will mitigate that revenue loss over time.
We do believe that time through 2012 that we will get the majority of that cost mitigated; not entirely but the majority.
We think that so far our numbers appear to be tracking where we thought they would.
We've had some of the products that we've introduced.
They've been slightly more successful than we had anticipated.
The conversion from free checking to a fee-eligible checking our numbers there have been almost spot on of what we had forecasted.
So I would say no real surprises.
We continue to be slightly ahead of where we had projected from a service charge revenue standpoint but only slightly.
So we still feel confident that our plans are working.
And while it's been a challenge I think that we've met that challenge very well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just switching gears.
In terms of the margin you mentioned a little bit less than $12 billion of CDs are going to mature.
What is your expectation in terms of the percentage of that amount that you will retain? Matt a lot of that depends on what our competitors are doing.
But we've obviously had -- in total deposits we've stayed fairly stable.
We've been down slightly.
But as we've shifted dollars from time deposits into low-cost deposits we've had a fairly strong retention of the dollars in the bank.
But we also -- when you look at maturing CDs what we've experienced is a retention rate of about 60% to 70% of them stay in a CD or time deposit product and we don't see that changing in 2012.
But obviously the competitive pressures could change and alter that but we don't anticipate that at this juncture.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just one question in terms of the environmental costs.
You mentioned that you expect that the $300 million that you're currently experiencing in environmental costs should be down a little bit in 2012.
And I guess I'm just curious as to how those of us in the outside might get a sense as to the trend.
And one way other banks have suggested we might look at that is just the trend in overall OREO amounts.
Is that a reasonable proxy for thinking about the pace of the decline in environmental costs for Regions this year? Yes I mean I think the way I would look at it if I was trying to find a positive correlation as I do think assets that are held in OREO are held for sale as well as overall asset quality trends would be where I think the correlation on those environmental costs would be at.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Ketron of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the -- a follow-up question on the margin.
When you look at the CD rates if you go back to the first quarter of 2011 which I think is one of the higher maturity quarters we saw the margin jump about 8 basis points and the yield on CDs drop about 20 basis points.
Is that -- looking at your maturities and the going-out rate for the CDs in 2012 is it possible to see that kind of similar action? And where do you think the CD rates for the portfolio could ultimately reach? When you look at roughly $11.6 billion $11.7 billion in maturities we have for '12 you don't see that abnormally large group of maturities in the first quarter that you saw last year on high rates.
It's spread out more evenly this year than what you saw last year and probably a little more heavy in the second and third quarter than in first.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is it fair to say as you think about the margin improvement this year it would be more of a gradual improvement instead of maybe a large jump? That's what we were trying to communicate.
We believe if they've continued to play out as we see them today that if they play out that way that we would see an incremental improvement in our margin over the course of the year.
We don't see that being a rapid jump in the first quarter and then leveling out.
We think it will be gradual throughout the year.
But if you look at our time deposits we're down to -- just slightly over 20% of our deposit mix is now in-time deposits.
We can see that -- we see that percentage continuing to fall throughout 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what is the new CD rate that you're seeing on average? It depends on term.
Obviously customer selects the term.
But when you look at overall mix we're probably coming on new CDs probably in a 30 to 35-basis-point range all in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final question on loan growth.
As we play out 2012 you have runoff in areas like investor commercial real estate.
Could we expect to see any type of change? We've seen some people commit more mortgage production to the balance sheet.
Is that something that you all would consider? Yes.
We continue to revisit that question every month and certainly could alter that decision if we thought circumstances warranted it.
I think the question on how much earning asset growth we have this year is really is just going to depend on what is the pace of decline that we continue to see in investor commercial real estate.
We do anticipate that pace of decline to moderate over the course of '12.
In terms of balance sheet we're seeing the assets on the consumer side that we have for the consumer whether it's in equity line and first residential mortgages continue to decline roughly $100 million each per month.
But if we were to elect to keep more residential first mortgages on the balance sheet we would actually alter that pace of decline on that particular asset type.
But we also are encouraged by some of the growth we're seeing in some of our other products.
And so if we can get to the point we're outpacing the decline in Investor Real Estate we'll have net growth and that's -- we're looking for that inflection point.
Your final question comes from the line of Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to explore the disclosure you gave about the Business Services on the criticized information particularly in Investor Real Estate the improvements on special mention and substandard.
What's driving that? And is there anything unusual happening in this quarter that may not be repeated in future quarters? Things are getting better quite frankly in that space.
But I think part of it is perhaps just the driver bias.
Those that have lasted this long are able to last a little bit longer and they're hanging on to better days.
I think we saw the early fallout and that's been a lot of what we've seen in the last couple of years.
In terms of our charge-offs there are things moving to criticized and classified.
But we again -- we're seeing just an overall improvement in that sector right now.
Yes and Chris I'd also say when you look at the most troubled part of our portfolio has been in land single-family and condo.
And if you look in our release you'll see that's down to about $1.8 billion.
And so in that -- to Barb's point that exposure's now reduced and those borrowers have made it this far.
I would tell you also in certain geographies we're seeing geographies that have been pretty stressed throughout this cycle starting to turn in much better numbers.
So it's just where we are in the cycle quite frankly.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Hall for closing remarks.
Well thank you for your time and interest in Regions Financial.
We certainly appreciate it and respect it.
So thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Nicole and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on the call this morning.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
And also with us and available to answer questions are Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section at Regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
Let me now turn it over to Grayson.
Good morning and thank you all for participating in Regions' First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Simply put this has been a quarter of significant accomplishment.
In fact I would characterize it as a pivotal quarter with Regions now fundamentally stronger strategically focused and well positioned to grow our franchise profitably.
We certainly still have plenty of work left to fully accomplish our goals but the past quarter's results position Regions well.
Let's look at the key milestones that have occurred over the past few months.
We successfully completed an approximate $900 million public offering of common stock.
The overnight offering was significantly oversubscribed and priced at a premium from the previous day's close.
Our equity rates following the results of the Federal Reserve's large bank capital analysis review there were no objections to our plan demonstrating what we believe is the strength of our capital planning process.
Subsequently a major credit rating agency upgraded Regions restoring us to investment grade status and attributing the upgrade to improving profitability rise of asset quality and capital trends.
Also we completed the sale of Morgan Keegan which closed on April 2 reducing our overall risk profile and improving liquidity and capital.
And finally on April 4 we redeemed the entire $3.5 billion of Series A preferred stock issued in the U.S.
Treasury.
On an ongoing basis the redemption eliminates the payment of preferred dividends as well as the amortization of the discount which cost us in total $214 million or $0.17 per share in 2011.
In addition to these important milestones we also achieved broad-based asset quality improvement providing strong evidence that we are at a long-awaited inflection point in overall credit quality trends.
Plus we continue to demonstrate disciplined progress in improving customer service quality in all of our business locations.
Further Regions' first quarter earnings from continuing operations were a solid $0.14 per diluted share and despite seasonal factors and legislative headwinds adjusted pretax pre-provisioned income approximated $419 million a level that we believe will mark 2012's quarterly low point.
We're off to a very good start in 2012 and given our recent capital accomplishments as well as the ongoing successful execution of our business plans Regions' outlook for the full year is encouraging.
There's no question that the first few months of the year has been busy and eventful for Regions.
We have accomplished a great deal and all these actions served to enhance our overall risk profile and allows us to focus on core fundamentals.
As a result we're a fundamentally stronger company that has encouraging momentum.
Let me turn the call over to David who will provide first quarter's financial details.
After which I'll return for some closing comments before opening the call up for questions.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
Let's begin on Slide 3 with a quick snapshot of our first quarter 2012 financial results.
We reported net income available to common shareholders of $145 million or $0.11 per diluted share and income from continuing operations totaled $185 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
A net loss from discontinued operations of $40 million or $0.03 per diluted share is attributable to an increase in professional and legal fees.
Pretax Pre-provision Income or PPI was $438 million as reported.
Net interest income declined linked quarter.
However net interest margin increased 1 basis point to 3.09%.
Non-Interest Revenues increased 3% on a linked quarter basis and Non-Interest Expenses excluding fourth quarter's goodwill impairment were up 5%.
From a credit standpoint Net Charge-Offs were down 23% and the Loan Loss Provision declined 60% from the previous quarter.
As you could see our first quarter results from continuing operations were solid reflecting core business strengths and a marked reduction in credit costs.
We do expect this quarter to be the low point for PPI.
Unless I note otherwise my comments will focus on results from continuing operations excluding goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of last year as we believe this provides a clearer picture of fundamental trends.
Let me start with asset quality on Slide 4.
In the first quarter we experienced broad-based asset quality improvement.
Virtually all credit metrics improved during the period and most should continue to do so throughout the year.
Notably first quarter's Loan Loss Provision was the lowest in more than 4 years.
Net Charge-Offs were down significantly resulting in a decline of $98 million or 23% linked quarter and exceeded the Loan Loss Provision by $215 million.
Inflows of Non-Performing Loans declined to $381 million or 32% from the fourth quarter's $561 million.
Non-Performing Loans excluding loans held for sale decreased $221 million or 9% linked quarter and $936 million or 30% year-over-year.
Total Non-Performing Assets declined $1.3 billion or 33% from prior year.
Also it's important to note that nearly half of all Business Services' gross nonperforming loans were current and paying as agreed at the end of the quarter.
This is up 11 percentage points from a year ago.
Notably Business Services' criticized and classified loans continued to decline with criticized loans down 6% or $391 million from the fourth quarter and down $3.2 billion or 35% from 1 year ago.
As a reminder criticized and classified loans are one of the best and earliest indicators of credit quality.
Our allowance coverage ratios remain strong.
At quarter end our allowance for loan and lease losses to Non-Performing Loans stood at 118% up 15 basis points from last year.
Meanwhile our loan loss allowance to loan ratio remains strong at 3.3% at the end of the first quarter.
Bottom line we continue to make significant progress on asset quality and from almost every metric observed you will find improved credit quality at Regions.
However each quarter has its own unique characteristics and some volatility should be expected going forward due to the uneven nature of the economic recovery.
Now let's look at our balance sheet trends starting with loans on Slide 5.
Ending loans for the first quarter were down $874 million or 1% linked quarter and the loan yield decreased 6 basis points to 4.29%.
But this decrease in yield primarily reflects the impact of previously terminated balance sheet hedges.
Ending earning assets however increased 2% linked quarter attributable to growth in the investment portfolio which I will discuss in a moment.
Investor real estate balances reflect a favorable decline of 6%.
At quarter end balances stood at $10.1 billion which is down $4.7 billion from 1 year ago.
This portfolio now comprises 13% of our total loan portfolio down from 18% a year ago.
We expect this portfolio to continue to decline at a more moderate pace.
Mortgage balances declined 1% linked quarter reflecting our continued strategy to sell fixed-rate conforming mortgages.
The company also experienced additional loan declines in the home equity portfolios as consumers continue to refinance and or deleverage.
Regarding the credit card portfolio balances were down slightly on a linked quarter basis.
However we do expect growth later this year once we assume servicing of the portfolio and control the customer experience.
Commercial and industrial loan demand remained healthy in the first quarter driven by our specialized lending groups.
On an ending basis loans grew $576 million or 2% for the first quarter.
While growth was broad-based geographically we experienced particularly strong growth in Southwest Texas in the energy industry as well as Central and West Tennessee in the health care industry.
Pipelines have also picked up as customers continue to make capital expenditures and to some extent build working capital.
Line utilization on commercial and industrial loans was up 45 basis points linked quarter.
Indirect auto continues to be an area of growth as loans increased 5% linked quarter and we now have almost 1 500 dealers in our network.
Total consumer loan production totaled $2.3 billion in the first quarter.
We have been disciplined and judicious with respect to capital deployment.
As a result of our capital actions and credit ratings upgrade we are in a better position for our balance sheet to work harder for us in the future.
Loan balances should end the year relatively stable compared to the beginning of the year as loan growth in C&amp;I and non-real-estate consumers should offset more modest declines in investor real estate.
On the liability side of the balance sheet as shown on Slide 6 deposit mix and costs continued to improve in the first quarter.
Average deposits were up 1% linked quarter driven by a $1.6 billion increase in low-cost deposits partially offset by a $721 million decline in CDs.
Given our continued success in growing low-cost deposits average time deposits fell to 20% of average outstanding deposits down from 24% a year ago.
This positive mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining to 37 basis points for the quarter down 3 basis points from fourth quarter and 22 basis points from 1 year ago.
On a related note our total funding costs improved 3 basis points linked quarter to 65 basis points.
However we expect to be able to drive additional improvement in deposit cost.
We have approximately $4 billion of CDs that are scheduled to mature in the second quarter that carry an average interest rate of 1.1%.
There's an additional $5.2 billion at 1.9% that will mature in the second half of the year.
This compares to our current average going-on rates for new CDs approximating 25 to 30 basis points.
Now let's turn to net interest income on Slide 7.
Seasonal factors including day count along with the residual effect from previously-terminated derivatives reduced net interest income on a linked quarter basis.
For the quarter taxable equivalent net interest income was down $22 million or 3%.
However the resulting net interest margin was up 1 basis point to 3.09% which was impacted by declining deposit costs gains on previously-terminated balance sheet hedges and a decline in the low-yielding cash reserves at the Federal Reserve.
We are optimistic about the course of net interest income and net interest margin over the balance of the year.
As always the course will depend on the trajectory of interest rates and prepayment levels particularly in the investment portfolio.
In order to utilize a portion of our excess liquidity we purchased approximately $3 billion of investment securities during the first quarter almost $2 billion in agency-guaranteed securities and $1 billion of corporate bonds.
We are focused on ensuring that we can retain flexibility to adjust the size of the investment portfolio in all rate environments if more attractive loan opportunities arise.
We believe these investments will increase the aggregate earnings of the portfolio and also protect the investment portfolio from the negative impact of higher interest rates.
Consequently in the first quarter the remaining excess cash reserves negatively impacted the margin 13 basis points an improvement from fourth quarter's 14 basis points.
In addition the impact of non-accruals on the margins declined 3 basis points to 10 basis points in the first quarter.
Let's turn to Non-Interest Revenues on Slide 8.
First quarter Non-Interest Revenues were up 3% linked quarter.
As expected service charges declined modestly by 3% or $9 million linked quarter despite the negative impact of Regulation E and debit interchange legislation.
These results demonstrate our ability to quickly adapt our business model.
We've been able to successfully mitigate these hurdles by generating new revenue streams and through the ongoing product restructuring of deposit accounts.
As a result of these changes we expect to completely mitigate this legislative impact over time.
Mortgage banking revenue was particularly strong in the quarter aided by the government's HARP 2 program which is serving to increase refinanced volume.
Revenues were up $20 million or 35% over fourth quarter.
We estimate HARP 2 will add over $1 billion to our full year 2012 mortgage refinance volume.
As we evaluate the mortgage refinancing opportunities we believe our capacity to handle refinancing activity more expeditiously is enabling us to take market share.
We anticipate that mortgage revenue will continue to benefit from HARP 2 in the near term but will moderate over the latter part of the year.
Moving onto expenses on Slide 9.
Non-interest expenses were up 5% linked quarter.
However expenses were down 2% year-over-year.
During the first quarter we experienced a seasonal increase in expenses primarily related to an increase of payroll taxes as well as an annual subsidiary dividend of $13 million.
In addition we experienced an increase in pension and 401-K related expenses.
This increase was offset by a reduction in certain credit-related expenses in particular other real estate and held for sale expenses.
Combined these expenses improved $19 million or 56% linked quarter and this is an area where we are making clear progress.
We also reduced headcount during the quarter.
And over the past year we've experienced a decline of 737 positions or 3%.
As we have noted before we will continue to seek expense savings without compromising prudent investment opportunities or sacrificing the high service levels our customers have come to expect and deserve at Regions.
In fact this quarter we are rolling out new technology to our teller platform that will leverage image technology to support a streamlined process for associates and customers.
This will also enhance our cross-sell abilities and allow tellers to interact with customers in a way they were not able to before.
We continue to focus on process improvement technology investments and improving operating efficiencies.
Looking ahead we expect overall 2012 expenses from continuing operations and excluding goodwill impairment to be slightly down from the 2011 level as a result of our continued and disciplined focus on expenses.
Turning now to our strong capital and solid liquidity on Slide 10.
As a result of our capital actions and events this past quarter our Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 14.3% and our Tier 1 common ratio increased by 110 basis points to 9.6%.
Adjusted to exclude the government's preferred investment the Tier 1 ratio was 10.6%.
At quarter's end our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common and Tier 1 ratios were 8.9% and 12.5% respectively and are above the proposed policy minimums.
As a quick reminder as a result of the Series A Preferred Stock repayment earlier this month Regions' second quarter net income available to common shareholders will be impacted by the acceleration of the accretion of the discount associated with the repurchased shares.
The charge associated with the accretion is expected to be approximately $70 million.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 79% and cash held at the Federal Reserve totaled approximately $5.2 billion at quarter end.
Lastly based on our interpretation our liquidity coverage ratio is above the 100% Basel III requirement.
Overall this quarter's results show the significant accomplishments that we've made on several important fronts.
We have substantially enhanced our asset quality.
We have proven that our core business performance is sound and we further strengthened our balance sheet from a liquidity and capital standpoint.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thank you David.
And let me close just by quickly recapping the notable accomplishments in the past few months.
We are pleased that a number of significant events are now largely behind us.
We have raised capital selling $900 million of new common stock.
We have completed the sale of Morgan Keegan.
We have repaid the government's preferred investment.
We have made significant strides in addressing our asset quality issues as confirmed by the notable improvement in asset quality metrics.
And we continue to deliver excellent customer service while investing in new technology and process improvements.
As a result of these actions we can now focus more of our resources on fundamentals and on executing our business plans and growing our franchise.
I am proud of the progress we've made and I believe the second quarter of 2012 marks the start of a new chapter for Regions.
We look forward to a shift in focus where the emphasis will be on profitable and prudent growth.
I am confident that we have the right business plans in place and the talent to execute successfully.
I'm also increasingly optimistic about the opportunities ahead even in what we assume to be a relatively slow growth 2012 economy.
We are committed to taking advantage of these opportunities and deliver improved high-quality results to our stakeholders.
Operator we're now ready to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question is from the line of Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can we talk about the ability possibly to be -- to have a 1% ROA? You guys have always had a 1% ROA in the past.
But you have a balance sheet that's $19 billion smaller than peak you got $21 billion less loans than peak.
Can you get to a 1.0% ROA on this size balance sheet with this expense run rate? Jefferson what we've kind of guided to is that over time we believe we can be in that 1% to 1.2% ROA.
The question is timing.
And clearly as the economy improves our ability to attain that level is more achievable.
We are continuing to look at credit.
We had substantial improvements in credit.
But that's going to be uneven.
And so we need to continue to focus on credit as well as having our balance sheet work harder for us now that we've received our ratings upgrade and we're outside of TARP.
So we'll start working towards that range of ROA that I mentioned.
It's just timing.
Because Jefferson as you look at it we've been in a very defensive posture over the last few quarters from a capital and liquidity perspective and we do believe we are at the point that we can move a little more off of defense onto offense in terms of prudently generating new business.
We do see the opportunity starting to increase for us in our markets.
Obviously our strengthening position will help us from a competitive perspective.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up David you mentioned you're optimistic about spread income and margin.
Does that mean that you think that most likely they'll both move higher from here throughout the year? Well we do believe that because of our deposit repricing opportunities that I mentioned that our margin will -- you'll see improvement in our margin throughout the year.
Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the non-interest income.
It seems like the securities that you added were done towards the latter part of the quarter.
So I'm just wondering what the full run rate benefit of that would be as you think about 2Q and beyond.
Matt we really haven't given guidance quarter-to-quarter.
What we said is we expect that if you look at the year that -- it goes back to Jefferson's question really that we expect our NII and margin to be improved over where we were in 2011 so that's back-end loaded.
And it's back-end loaded primarily because of the deposit cost but also to the point that you brought up -- getting the balance sheet working harder for us really didn't begin in earnest until receiving the ratings upgrade and having the TARP repayments.
So you saw a little bit of that movement in the repositioning of the investment portfolio.
So it will take to the back half before you start seeing it.
Research Division</strong> And as we think out a little bit longer term I realize the credit rating boost will help and if more come that will help more.
But if we look at the cost of your long-term debt it's still pretty high especially versus your other funding.
And given your low loan to deposit ratio.
Like how do you think about remixing the funding overtime and what that might mean for the NIM beyond this year? Well we have a couple of maturities that are coming up this year and next year.
We'll have to -- we continue to watch our credit spreads.
They are coming in.
They're still wider than we expect and hope for over the long term.
We do have a pretty low level of long-term debt compared to our equity and especially compared to our peers.
But we will look for opportunities to take advantage of our tightening of credit spreads.
And to the extent we see opportunities to refinance.
In particular we have one series of the trust preferreds that are at 8.8%.
We'll be looking at that in particular.
Research Division</strong> And the just separately if I may.
Obviously credit was better than expected pretty much across-the-board.
I mean what stuck out to me is the reserve release was quite large and I guess being sensitive that the credit metrics can be choppy you talked about being uneven yet you're confident enough to bring down a lot of reserves.
So I mean do you feel like we're past the point where you kind of have 2 to 3 quarters of good credit and there's a little blip that ends up maybe catching some folks off guard? So maybe we'll still be choppy uneven but fewer bumps or smaller bumps? Matt I'll make a few comments and I'll ask Barb Godin if she'll add to this.
But what we've seen is we had a very good quarter from a credit quality metrics standpoint.
Our allowance methodology has been a pretty rigorous process that clearly over the last few quarters has been enhanced and strengthened and we're very rigorous about sticking to that.
The metrics all look very positive this quarter.
We do anticipate some level of unevenness.
But clearly what we're seeing absent any unexpected economic shocks that the credit quality trends will continue to be favorable and -- but we're going to stick to our process.
We're going to stay disciplined in the way we look at the credits and the way we look at the allowance methodology.
Barb? And Matt as we think about the allowance as well as we've been making progress and strides on putting on better quality credits and rolling off of those weaker credits that too has an impact a positive impact against our allowance needs.
And as it relates to what we expect for further quarters the only guidance I would give you is just remember that for each of the last couple of years in the third quarter we see a seasonal bump.
There's no reason I wouldn't anticipate that this year albeit hoping it will be muted from prior years.
But it will be clearly choppy as we have come out.
And as Grayson said we are going to follow what the economy does.
And Matt if you look at the most problematic segment of our portfolio it's been the investor commercial real estate down 32% over a year ago.
We ended the quarter at roughly $10.1 billion but if you get a little more granular into that portfolio you'll see that construction's down over 50% and that portfolio is now slightly under $1 billion $955 million.
You look at some of the more problematic groups the land the single-family and condominium down 40% year-over-year and all of those components land's down slightly under $800 million; single family is about $800 million; and condo's down to $130 million.
So as you look at the makeup and composition of that $10.1 billion it continues to be a stronger story.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a quick couple of question on the expense side.
David can you breakout for us what part of the salaries increase was related to pension cost that will stick around for the year versus the FICA and stock option stuff that will tail off? Yes.
Let me answer in maybe a different way than you asked it.
If you look at the expense run rate from the first quarter and you try to figure out what is kind of the seasonal component there's $35 million to $40 million of that number that you would not expect to recur going forward.
So you can put that in your model and that will get you an approximation on where -- the question you just asked.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and my follow up on that is then also your credit related expenses were really nicely lower and I just wanted to ask you to kind of walk us through some color on that.
And also have we now -- in that line also now gotten back to a nicely lower run rate? Or could that still be lumpy and episodic? Ken it's Barb Godin.
I'll answer that question.
As it relates to what we're seeing in our OREO expense there's less write-downs that we're taking due to appraised values coming in.
We're seeing some bottoming in some of our markets.
In fact in the handful of markets we're actually starting to see some rates starting to move in the opposite direction.
And beyond that we've simply just not put as much into our OREO portfolio.
So therefore overall expenses have tailed down nicely.
And again we'd anticipate that they should absent any large moves to OREO should stay low.
I would add that we did have some gains in the transactions related to held for sale and that's a function of our aggressive write-downs we take.
The market as Barb mentioned in some cases is recovering.
And we're seeing quite a few buyers coming to the market looking for these assets.
So that's helped bolster prices.
Get a little concerned to try to give you too much guidance as to where that could go in the future.
I think we need to be careful that we don't get ahead of ourselves trying to predict that.
So that's one of the uneven things that we want to continue to watch.
But our OREO and held for sale portfolios have now gotten down to a relatively small level.
And so the volatility with that shouldn't be that great.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one just quick final one.
Just coming back to the NII story I just want to understand that first to second with average earning assets you got rid of the $3.5 billion of TARP and you've raised the $900 million that's a net reduction of $2.5 billion or so.
So do we still have a step down to come just from balance sheet side before we then see the second half growth? Well I think averaging can mislead you a little bit that's why we put into the prepared comments that our ending earning assets are actually up 2%.
So I think you ought to look at that as maybe a better indicator of where things could trend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right that TARP was after the quarter end.
That's right.
And so we have the money sitting in at Federal Reserve and that...
At quarter end.
At quarter end so we utilized our excess cash at the Fed to make that repayment.
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Couple questions.
One is on the liquidity pool and the opportunity to redeploy that into securities and loans.
If you could put into effect all the excess liquidity that you hold today into the weighted average portfolio that you've got in securities and loans.
What's your estimate as to how much that would improve the NIM? Betsy I think if you looked in kind of round terms you're talking about a 13-basis point reduction due to that excess liquidity.
Now getting back to Ken's point we utilized some that excess cash post quarter end so our excess cash is now closer to the $2 billion $2.5 billion range today.
And we would look to continue to deploy our excess cash in the most meaningful way.
We also would rather deploy our balance sheet into loans more so than we have in the investment portfolio.
That grew close to $2.5 billion and we'd much rather put it into loans but we want to put it into loans that have the right risk profile and are properly priced.
So we are continuing to look for those opportunities and what you'll see over time is that we will have more aggressive plays on our balance sheet now that we have our ratings upgrade.
In particular looking at our investment portfolio just an example is our deployment of $1 billion this past quarter into the corporate bond portfolio.
It takes a little more credit risk.
It helps us to meet the extension risk that we have in the investment portfolio from rising grades.
And those things over time will help us from an NII and end resulting NIM.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then separately I hear the improvements in credit and then I also hear your prepared remarks comments about volatility and expect some lumpiness or bumpiness.
Is that lumpiness or bumpiness that you're expecting really because you need to say that just for legal reasons? You're obviously -- it's unsure 100% is what's going to happen because the trajectory looks like things are obviously getting better on the credit side.
I think that clearly when you look at the first quarter we had some very strong improvement in our credit metrics.
I think that we've been in this cycle so long.
We're going to always be -- if we're going to err it's going to be to the side of caution and we do -- we do spend a lot of time stress testing our portfolio and forecasting what we believe the future to be.
But we tend to always sort of anticipate that it could be somewhat uneven or bumpy as you would call.
And Barb you may want to add to that? Betsy as well if you think about last year a year ago I would just point everyone to that where we all felt the economy was moving in the right direction or better direction.
And of course then we have Europe that happened and then next [ph] global that followed that.
So again we're simply being very cautious as to how we think about the economy.
We would still say it will be in a fragile state.
I'll add one thing to it.
If you look at criticized and classified levels those are clearly coming down.
We think that's one of the best places first places that you look in terms of assessing credit quality and those are coming down.
We'll be disclosing our potential problem loan number which is the inflow of numbers that we've talked about before in the $350 million to $400 million range.
So that is a -- we believe showing that -- an improvement.
So I think that we want to be careful with regards to the provisioning.
Did I say the range is $350 million to $450 million...
You said $350 million to $400 million.
I'm sorry.
$350 million to $450 million would be our range of potential problem loans.
Research Division</strong> Right which that's lower than what you had a couple of quarters or so ago? That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the credit quality again.
What do you say in -- I know we know you have a lot of exposure to Florida and other parts of the South and we've been hearing that the South is probably less competitive on loan growth and pricing than other regions of the country.
Now you might not see that being in that region but how would you talk about the competitiveness? And then also on the follow-up is where is most of the good asset quality improvement coming from? Is it coming from the state of Florida or other regions that you service? Well I'll try to answer that question in a couple different directions.
I'd say one from a competitive standpoint obviously we're operating in 16 states predominantly in the Southeast.
But I'd say what we've seen is some pretty strong competition.
And I would say most of that competition has been around pricing not so much on covenants but certainly you've seen some pricing competition as there's been a strong effort from all of our competitors to try to grow loans prudently.
So we are seeing that.
I would tell you when you look at the business side of our balance sheet most of that growth has been in the commercial industrial lending predominantly in the upper end of that --of the middle market.
And I would say specifically where we've seen our most success is in what we call specialized industries which has been asset-based lending in health care and energy in particular.
We've seen strong growth in those segments and -- but I would tell you that's been sort of broad-based across the footprint.
Florida has never particularly been a strong commercial industrial state but we are seeing some improving signs in the state of Florida.
I would tell you most of the borrowings tend to be around CapEx.
There's a lot of investment in technology and in equipment that we're financing at this point in time.
I'll tell you on the consumer side we're still seeing as David mentioned earlier we're seeing very strong growth on the residential mortgage segment.
We had about $1.6 billion in production in the first quarter $200 million of that was in a HARP 2 segment and about 60% was refinancing.
Our refinance and new home purchase is running about 60-40.
We are seeing even stronger pipelines in both consumer and business in the early part of the second quarter.
Auto indirect auto lending continues to be strong with us -- for us I would tell you that obviously pricing has gotten more competitive in that segment as well but we're still pleased with the spreads that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> And you say -- and you're also -- you talked a little bit about on the mortgage side on the purchase side.
You're seeing an increase in purchase throughout your footprint or just in specific states? It varies by state.
Obviously purchase has been a more dominant -- more dominant in states like Florida.
We've had a stronger purchase percentage out of Florida just because of the inability for many of those mortgage holders to execute or refinance.
Obviously HARP 2 has changed that to some degree and our application volume for the first quarter applications for HARP 2 is about 20% of total volume.
We think it will be stronger than that for the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just thinking about aggregate period end loan growth here relative to the negative 5%-ish range here there the first quarter.
I'm just wondering how do you think this will trend? How quickly will this recover? And do you think residential mortgage is going to play a larger role in your aggregate loan growth just given unattractive returns really in a lot of other earning asset classes and also some weak demand in some of your core lending segments.
You got -- I would tell you that the sort of way we look at our loan growth is you'd look that first quarter obviously as David mentioned a moment ago you need to look a little beyond period-to-period averages and look at ending balances.
We actually were a little stronger on ending balances than the averages would tend to -- indicate.
We do anticipate that we'll continue to see growth in the segments I've previously mentioned.
But that -- and we'll see a more moderate decline in commercial real estate over the year.
Commercial real estate was down about $600 million period-to-period which is a more moderate decline than we've seen previously.
We think there's still some moderation in that.
But it's still declining.
We do think that from start to finish that our loans outstanding will be fairly stable but you'll continue to see modest runoff in the first half of the year and modest growth in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And how has your appetite changed for  retaining conforming mortgages at this point? We really haven't had much of an appetite for that.
We've had -- we've retained very little of our production.
Mostly what we're retaining is the adjustable rate mortgages as well as jumbo mortgages which has been a relatively small percentage of our production.
And at this point we don't see that changing.
We continue to evaluate it from quarter-to-quarter and we're pretty rigorous about that evaluation and at this point in time we still are holding on that strategy.
David do you want to speak there? Yes we continue to look at that because we know that's where we're different than our peers.
We can't come up with a compelling argument for us to keep those mortgages primarily the 15-year product that we normally would retain.
But the spreads we can make in terms of selling it -- selling the production versus putting it on our books and having what we think would be long-dated pretty long-dated loans that we can take a proxy [ph] risk in the investment portfolio for that and have a better liquidity profile for that to be prepared for the loan growth that we really want to put on the books.
So we'll continue to look at it but we don't see that we would change that in the near term.
Our next question is from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America.
My first question is a follow-up to Ken's.
I just wanted to make sure I understood it correctly.
David are we looking at about an $875 million quarterly starting point for the expense run rate and the main message in terms of PPI improvement if you could keep it stable at that level? Well what I said was if you take the existing expense number and back off $35 million to $40 million of that that is -- $35 million or $40 million in that first quarter that should not repeat.
We do believe for the year which is consistent with our previous guidance that our expenses should be down from 2011.
And of course that's adjusting 2011 for the goodwill impairment and we're sticking to that.
Got it.
And with regard to your comments on the margin do you expect loan yield compression of about 6 basis points that you saw this quarter to moderate? Or is the margin expansion for the remaining of the year really a function of savings that you could extract from your funding base and also lower cash balances next quarter related to using some of that to pay back TARP? Our guidance that we're giving you relative to NII and NIM takes all that into consideration including other hedges that we have on the books that will expire this year.
So all in we believe we're going to continue to have improvement in the margin.
I think the -- we saw the change of 6 basis points.
We don't see that necessarily repeating given the nature of how that unwinds in the first quarter so you shouldn't extrapolate that.
Got it.
And my last question is on the home equity portfolio.
I'm sure you saw larger banks this quarter report an increase in MPLs due to a change in the accounting methodology with regards to classifying a performing first if they're behind -- performing second if they're behind a problem first.
Barb have you complied with this or reserved for this? Erika in fact we've had a look not only at our own portfolio but what we service and in total that number is roughly $3.7 million of our home equity that we would need to have been to non-accruals that would happen this quarter.
We've also taken that as a proxy and used that to look at the rest of the portfolio.
So our anticipation is that there would be an incremental monthly $10 million that could also happen coming from where others have the first and we are holding the second mortgage.
So all in I would say a relatively immaterial number.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> We've spent a little time talking about expense side of things.
I'd like to get a little additional color on the fee revenue outlook for Regions.
You've made a couple comments about HARP helping out the mortgage side of the business for at least the next quarter or 2.
I'm curious as to where else you might see benefits in terms of fee revenues in the second quarter and third quarter.
And within that can you provide any additional color on what -- on the ongoing relationship with Raymond James at this point following the sale of Morgan Keegan? Okay.
Let me try to answer your questions.
First of all I think from a fee revenue standpoint in terms of Non-interest revenues clearly the first quarter benefited from a very strong level of production in our mortgage group.
We do not see that abating.
That continues early into the first quarter.
Our pipelines and our applications that we're receiving to date would not indicate that that's abating anytime soon.
So we would anticipate a continuous strong quarter in that regard.
On the consumer side as we've mentioned before the consumer checking account we've really been in a transition for several months of migrating our consumer checking account base from basically a free checking offering to more of a fee eligible offering with hurdles around balances and transaction types and we've successfully sort of bridged that transition and starting to see good results from that regard.
We also introduced a number of products into our consumer offerings prepaid cards and some money transfer types of activities and check cashing kind of activities that have augmented our service charges.
We continue to introduce products into the consumer suite that will generate some level of revenue but that are meeting very legitimate customer needs and trying to grow the consumer side of the portfolio.
I'd also mention since we acquired our credit card portfolio we're generating a pretty strong interchange revenue off of that portfolio as well as we continue to see growth in the debit card transactions.
We've seen year-over-year growth in debit card in spite of all the changes that have been made to that product.
So we have said that we think over time we can mitigate the impact of the revenue challenges we have on NIR.
And so far our results are tracking on target to a little better than target.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if I could just a follow-up on that specific subject.
Are you assuming that the Q1 number for your capital markets revenues are basically the peak for the year and that they would begin to come down similar to the trend that you saw last year? We are not -- we at the capital markets group I think had a good first quarter.
But we actually are encouraged about what we think might happen through the rest of the year.
And I do think that you mentioned earlier the continuing relationship with Raymond James they continue to be a good customer of ours as well as a partner on a number of fronts.
And so we are hopeful that that turns into business for us later in the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can one final question on asset quality.
You've mentioned several times you expect asset or credit trends to continue to improve perhaps not in a straight line.
I guess I'm just curious about how you're thinking about where ultimately reserves would be would fall out relative to the loan portfolio? You're looking somewhere in the 2% to 2.5% range or possibly even lower? Well this is David.
We continue to monitor closely credit.
We have to all acknowledge that we're still in an unusual environment in the world economy.
And we try to assess where reserves really end up.
I think we would all agree that reserves are going to be higher than before we entered the crisis.
And so if entering in the crisis you were in the 1.25 to 1.50 range you're probably in that 1.50 to 2 range and that's the best guess we have right now.
We need to wait and see how this thing pans out.
But I would think -- I know that's a wide margin 1.50 to 2 but that's probably the best guidance that we would give you.
And the question is in what time period -- we're at 3.3% today and what time period would that shift down? And that's a harder thing to answer because of the unevenness with regard to the economic recovery.
So in time I think we can get down to those levels.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one definitional one.
I mean so when we think about PPNR having bottomed here is it as simple as just kind of making the expense adjustments you talked about $35 million to $40 million and the $13 million subsidiary dividend and looking out to 2Q there is a PPNR base that is $50 million higher or so or is there anything else that we should adjust for in the same kind of seasonal element that would either bring it back down or push it back up in terms of looking for a run rate as opposed to guidance? Yes.
I think if you look at the first quarter that certainly is your starting point with the expenses we talked about.
But you need to be thinking about our deployment of our balance sheet in a more meaningful manner including our excess cash to work getting our investment portfolio to work being able to participate in loan syndications now that we have our ratings back that we hadn't had before.
All those help drive earning asset growth.
And so I think there's something in -- there should be more than just taking out those expenses that help drive improvements and overall PPNR.
Having the investment credit rating back and having what I said [ph] a better position of strength from a capital perspective will allow our commercial bankers to compete more effectively in this market.
Research Division</strong> And then as I think about that maybe as part of the loan outlook I know you don't break out run off versus core [ph] loans that way than some of your peers do.
But if the assumption that loans will inflect this year I guess is a prerequisite of that just that the run off headwinds will slow or does the core loan origination run rate actually need to accelerate from the current levels in order to get to growth in the back half of the year? Well I think as we talked earlier we are experiencing pretty good growth in our C&amp;I book and our pipelines remain strong.
We're very encouraged there.
We do have headwinds which are continuing a moderation of a decline in Investor real estate.
So that will slow some but still decline and we still have the consumer that's deleveraging.
In particular our home equity line of credit book that continues to attrite [ph] because of this refinanced and or deleveraging that's occurring.
It also is -- what impacts us versus our peers is our decision not to retain the resident mortgages originations on our books versus selling them into the markets.
So as we mentioned earlier we think if you look at the beginning of the year loan portfolio and you look at the end of the year you're going to be about flat year-over-year.
We're down about 1% end-to-end this first quarter and we'll see a little bit of attrition.
But the back half we expect the growth will take over that and get on the run rate in the second half leading into 2013.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just a last one I know TruPS isn't a huge number for you but can you remind us what you're thinking in terms of timing and also would those be expected to be something that would be just cash on hand would take those out or should we build in some kind of replacement debt cost? Well we continue to look at that.
We have 2 issues a roughly $500 million issue at 6.6% and then we have a $350 million issue at 8.8%.
We have put ourselves in position to be able to deal with either one of those.
8.8% is the more likely candidate given where our credit spreads are and I think that if -- a caller earlier had mentioned about our credit spreads.
If our credit spreads tighten like we think they will over time or hope that they will over time then that gives us even better opportunity to either take them out from a cash standpoint and or replace them with cheaper debt.
We still have to maintain our policy of cash at the holding company which is 2 years worth of cash to take care of all debt service and dividends and so forth.
And we're over that policy today we will continue to maintain that which if we took out that piece would put us depending on how things trend this year could put us in the market.
But for $350 million we might be able to take it out for cash.
We'll have to wait and see.
Our next question is from the line of Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the service charges.
You mentioned how there's been a big impact over time from the regulatory hurdles and you've made changes to offset that.
Is there any additional hit to expect from for instance sequencing change for overdrafts or is that already complete? If you could just comment on that.
Kevin we -- if you have to when you look at the service charge revenue streams that we have the revenue stream for overdrafts and insufficient funds I think is the revenue stream that continues to be some level of debate over in the industry and part of that debate is around posting sequence and part of it is about funds availability and also parts of it is about sort of different institutions stances on waivers and refunds regarding the NSS.
That revenue stream continues to decline for us and we anticipate that it will still continue to decline for some time to come.
And we're repricing our products and readjusting our business model on existing products and addition of new products to offset that.
We do still have -- we do anticipate that there will be rule changes -- further rule changes regarding this process that we'll adapt to and adjust to.
But I think it's premature to speculate as to what those might be.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Grayson and one -- just a follow up.
You mentioned a few minutes ago about some of the additional products on the consumer side like money transfer and check-cashing activities and that there's a real need for that.
You made that point and are those kind of opportunities that you run by the Consumer Finance Bureau just to make sure there's no trouble with that down the line or are we just way early on that front to be thinking about that? I think that we're way early.
Obviously we've had a lot of conversations with our supervisors the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
But those conversations are confidential and I would tell you that we try to go through a risk assessment on all the products that we introduce.
We try to make sure that they're fair and responsible that they're treating customers fairly.
I think those are all objectives that all of our supervisors agree with.
But I do anticipate changes in this space and it's just too early.
From my vantage point it's just too early to call.
Your final question is from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Barb you had indicated that you expect OREO expenses to stay low through the year here.
I just want to clarify that.
Do you still expect further decline and you're just being conservative there? And I guess I have a similar question on the related credit cost throughout the expense base beyond the OREO expenses.
Do you also expect continued declines through the year and into '13? Yes.
And John as long as we're looking at what's happening with real estate values and prices that's where I'm basing my remarks.
That is that we have seen as I've mentioned earlier some of our markets stabilize.
Some of the markets start to improve a little and of course that directly impacts our OREO expense and cost.
So as we see those things getting better throughout the year hopefully we won't be taking as many marks and our expense will be lower throughout the year.
But again depending on the economy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what is your -- would you say is your total environmental cost in your expense base that could come out as of today? I believe it was north of $800 million a few quarters back.
So I wanted to see what -- how do you quantify that total amount as of today? John that number had been in the $300 million range.
I'm not -- we might be talking about something different on your $800 million.
That's $300 million.
We said over time 3 quarters of that would come out as just -- when it comes out is based on improvements in the economy.
Clearly we have seen that in the first quarter.
And we think that that continue -- those costs will continue to abate.
It's not just OREO and held for sale cost but it's all the people that we have that manage problem assets for us as well in terms of where we deploy them.
And today it's in dealing with problem assets to market to be elsewhere in the organization to help serve customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I might have included some of the legal expenses in my number then.
Then separately in terms of securities can you just give us what the durations were of the securities you put on during the quarter and what the yields were approximating? Well we had been -- our duration had been 2.5 years.
Today it's probably closer to 3.
We put some corporate debt on the books not a lot about $1 billion this past quarter.
And that duration's in the 4- to 5-year range which is what drove that duration.
But we like that asset class relative to the mortgage-backed securities given the volume that we had there.
Research Division</strong> And the average yields that are put on that? John somewhere in the 3.25 range versus 2.50 range that we put on mortgage-backed.
I will turn the call back to Mr.
Hall for any closing remarks.
Just again let me thank everyone for your time and attention today.
We certainly appreciate your interest in Regions and we look forward to next quarter's call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call this morning.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; our Chief Financial Officer David Turner; and also here and available to answer questions are Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call we will make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
These statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the Appendix of the presentation.
With that covered let me turn it over to Grayson Hall.
Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and your participation in our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Regions delivered another quarter of improved financial results building on our momentum from earlier this year.
In short the company reported prudent and profitable growth driven by solid business performance and we continue to see broad-based improvements in our asset quality.
Second quarter pre-tax pre-provision income was $503 million 15% higher than in the first quarter and earnings from continuing operations were at an improved level of $0.20 per diluted share.
As you're aware earlier in the quarter we repaid the U.S.
Treasury's preferred stock investment and therefore incurred accelerating accretion charges.
Excluding these charges and the final preferred stock dividends earnings from continuing operations would have been $0.25 per diluted share.
While our results reflect some encouraging and positive trends the U.S.
economy continues to improve on an uneven and slow pace.
The economy continues to work through structural headwinds including de-leveraging high unemployment a weak housing market and fiscal consolidation at the local state and national levels.
Within Regions' markets job growth has been approximately on par with the U.S.
as a whole.
Importantly with respect to housing we are seeing modest and incremental improvements in most of our markets.
In particular the Florida metro markets.
While housing remains soft in many markets there are signs of recovery.
We are pleased that we're able to deliver solid business results despite the challenging economic landscape.
Looking at several important metrics our second quarter results demonstrate that we are executing well against our business priorities.
Despite the persistent challenge of a low interest rate environment our margin expanded for the third consecutive quarter.
The improvement largely reflects lower deposit cost declines in nonaccrual balances and a reduction in excess cash reserves at the Federal Reserve.
There's still an opportunity for further improvements in deposit cost which will largely support a stable margin even if market interest  rates remains at these levels.
And while our long-term debt levels are low relative to our peers we continue to evaluate liability management opportunities.
Although total outstanding loan balances were down less than 1% total loan production increased a healthy 15% linked-quarter.
We experienced improved growth in our commercial and industrial portfolios which helped to offset the favorable decline in investor real estate portfolio.
Our loan-to-deposit ratio remains conservative and provides considerable flexibility to continue to take advantage of profitable lending opportunities that will benefit future revenue growth.
Our mortgage loan production and related fee income improved significantly this quarter as customers continue to take advantage of historically low interest rates and HARP opportunities.
We experienced growth in both refinancing and new home purchase.
We continue to be disciplined and rigorous in our focus on improving operating efficiency.
At the same time we are continuing to invest in new technology and people where appropriate.
In the second quarter we began implementation of new technology in our banking offices that will enhance our cross-sell capabilities streamline and enhance our customers' experience and reduce our overall operating expenses.
We also posted another quarter of broad-based improvement in asset quality exceeding our own internal expectations confirming what we believe was a pivotal turn in the first quarter.
Importantly improving asset quality is enabling us to focus more of our resources and energy on executing strategies that profitably leverage our opportunity for revenue growth.
With respect to capital our improved ratios bolstered by recent capital actions position us well for the future.
We're still reviewing the latest notices or polls [ph] we're making regarding  capital.
We expect to be fully compliant well before the rules are officially phased in.
The first half of 2012 has been transformational for Regions and with several quarters of solid results and continued successful execution against our plans we believe Regions is better positioned for ultimate out-performance.
I'll now turn the call over to David Turner who will discuss second quarter financial details.
Afterward I'll come back and make a few closing comments.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
I want to begin on Slide 3 with a quick snapshot of our second quarter 2012 financial results.
We reported net income available to common shareholders of $284 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
Income from discontinued operations totaled $4 million primarily related to the gain on the Morgan Keegan sale.
Early in the second quarter we repaid the Series A preferred stock investment made by the U.S.
Treasury.
In conjunction with this repayment earnings were impacted by the acceleration of the accretion of the discount.
And along with preferred dividends totaled $71 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Pre-tax pre-provision income from continuing operations or PPI was $503 million.
Net interest income increased $11 million or 1% linked-quarter and the resulting net interest margin increased 7 basis points.
Noninterest revenues decreased 3% on a linked-quarter basis while noninterest expenses were down 8%.
From a credit standpoint net charge-offs were down 20% and the total loan loss provision declined 78%.
Let us get into the details starting with the balance sheet.
Average loans for the second quarter were down $498 million or less than 1% linked-quarter.
Despite a low interest rate environment our loan yields remained steady.
Balances were impacted by a decline of $664 million or 7% in the investor real estate portfolio.
At quarter end balances stood at $9.4 billion down almost $4 billion from one year ago.
This portfolio now comprises only 12% of our total loan portfolio compared to 17% a year ago.
We expect this portfolio to continue to decline at a moderate pace over the next few quarters.
Commercial and industrial loan demand remained healthy in the second quarter driven by our specialized lending groups.
On an ending basis commercial industrial loans grew $892 million or 4% first to second quarter.
The growth in this portfolio was aiding to offset the decline in the investor real estate portfolio.
While growth was broad-based geographically we experienced particularly strong growth in healthcare asset-based lending and the real estate corporate banking division which provides refinancing.
Pipelines remain solid and are slightly above the same level at this time last year as our clients funded capital expenditures working capital needs and increasingly M&amp;A activity.
Lien utilization on commercial industrial loans was up 130 basis points linked-quarter to just over 44% and commitments have increased 11% over the last year.
And moving on to consumer services average mortgage balances declined 1% linked quarter reflecting our continued strategy to sell fixed-rate conforming mortgages.
The company also experienced additional loan declines in the home equity portfolio as consumers continue to refinance and/or de-leverage.
At the end of the second quarter we started our rollout of our new credit card product line and an enhanced Relationship Rewards program.
Additionally we will convert these cards onto our system in the third quarter which will allow us to better control the customer experience and should enable us to increase sales production going forward.
Indirect auto continues to be an area of growth as loan production in this portfolio increased 15% over last quarter and average loan balances increased 6%.
Notably total consumer loan production totaled $2.8 billion in the second quarter up 24% linked-quarter.
Total loan balances for the remainder of the year are expected to remain relatively stable with second quarter's balances.
Let's move on to deposits.
As shown on Slide 5 deposit mix and cost continued to improve in the second quarter.
Average loan cost deposits increased $1.7 billion from last quarter and over $5 billion from one year ago.
Average higher cost CDs declined almost $2 billion linked-quarter and $5.3 billion from last year.
Total average deposits were relatively steady linked-quarter and year-over-year.
Average time deposits fell to just 18% of total deposits down from 23% a year ago as a result of our continued success in growing low-cost deposits.
This positive mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining to 32 basis points for the quarter down 5 basis points for the first quarter and 21 basis points from one year ago.
We expect to drive additional improvement in deposit cost.
We have approximately $2.9 billion of CDs that are scheduled to mature in the third quarter that carry an average interest rate of 1.2% and an additional $3 billion at 2.1% that will mature in the fourth quarter.
Now looking ahead to 2013 we currently have $6.5 billion of CDs that will mature.
Of that $4.6 billion mature in the first half with an average rate of 1.8% and $1.9 billion in the second half with an average rate of 0.8%.
Now this compares to our current average going-on rates for new CDs of approximately 20 basis points.
Our total funding cost improved 5 basis points linked-quarter to 60 basis points.
And we will continue to evaluate the capital and liquidity benefits of our 2 outstanding trust preferred securities as well as other liability management opportunities.
Let's turn to net interest income on Slide 6.
For the quarter taxable equivalent net interest income was up $11 million or 1%.
The resulting net interest margin was up 7 basis points to 3.16%.
The net interest margin benefited from reductions in overall deposit cost reduction in nonaccrual balances and a decline in low-yielding cash balances at the Federal Reserve.
Last quarter we deployed some of our excess cash into higher-yielding corporate and consumer mortgage-backed securities thus decreasing the negative impact of the excess cash reserves by 5 basis points to 8 basis points in the second quarter.
At the end of the quarter cash at the Federal Reserve totaled approximately $1.8 billion which is in line with our target operating level.
The negative impact of non-accruals on the margin declined 3 basis points to 7 basis points in the second quarter.
Now currently our investment portfolio amounts to $27.2 billion or 25% of average earning assets.
The future size of the investment portfolio will largely depend on the dynamics of the rest of the balance sheet.
Loan demand remained somewhat soft relative to the availability of stable deposits and we expect to continue to sell conforming mortgages to the agencies in favor of retaining that exposure within securities.
In the latter half of the second quarter long-term rates declined to record lows.
And should rates persist at these levels growing net interest income in 2012 will be challenging as fixed rate securities and loans are prepaid or mature and are replaced by lower-yielding assets.
However as previously noted the opportunity to continue to improve deposit cost will be an important factor supporting net interest income and the resulting net interest margin.
Consequently we do expect net interest income and the resulting net interest margin to remain at relatively stable levels.
Let's turn to noninterest revenue on Slide 7.
Second quarter noninterest revenues were down 3% linked-quarter.
Mortgage banking revenue was particularly strong in the quarter driven by new home purchases and refinance activity aided by the government's HARP 2 program which is serving to increase refinance volume.
Mortgage revenue was up $13 million or 17% over the first quarter.
Mortgage loan production of $2.1 billion during the second quarter reflects an increase of 28% from $1.6 billion in the first quarter.
While we estimate that HARP 2 will add over $1 billion to our full year 2012 mortgage refinance volume.
As we evaluate the mortgage refinancing opportunities we believe our capacity to handle refinancing activity more expeditiously is enabling us to take market share.
In fact almost half of our HARP 2  loan applications are new mortgage customers.
Account service fees and charges were down $21 million linked-quarter due to the establishment of a reserve for certain customer fee refunds resulting from a change in our non-sufficient funds policy.
Excluding this item total service charges would've been consistent with the first quarter.
And moving to expenses on Slide 8.
Noninterest expenses were down 8% linked-quarter and 12% year-over-year.
During the quarter credit-related expenses were down $31 million.
Notably other real estate expenses declined 57% linked-quarter and 73% year-over-year.
Within held-for-sale we incurred $26 million in net gains related to property sales.
Also staffing was down during the quarter.
And over the past year we have experienced a decline of 544 positions or 2%.
Looking ahead we expect overall 2012 expenses from continuing operations excluding goodwill impairment to be down from the 2011 level as a result of our continued and disciplined focus on cost control.
Let's move to our credit metrics on Slide 9.
For the second quarter in a row we experienced broad-based asset quality improvement with virtually all credit metrics improving.
Net charge-offs were down significantly resulting in a decline of $67 million linked-quarter or 52% year-over-year and exceeded the loan loss provision by $239 million.
Inflows of nonperforming loans declined to $315 million or 17% from last quarter.
This is down 81% from the peak which was in the second quarter of 2010.
Inflows have now reached what we would characterize as a normal range somewhere between $250 million and $350 million.
Nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale decreased $236 million or 11% linked-quarter.
This is the first time since the first quarter of 2009 that our nonperforming loans have been below $2 billion which is down 48% from the peak in the first quarter of 2010.
Total nonperforming assets declined $1.3 billion or 35% from the prior year.
Much of this improvement was driven by resolutions rather than charge-offs another favorable indicator of future trends.
Notably Business Services' criticized and classified loans continued to decline with criticized loans down 9% or $543 million from the first quarter and down $3.4 billion or 38% from the fourth quarter of 2009 which was the high point.
As a reminder criticized and classified loans are one of the best and earliest indicators of asset quality.
Our coverage ratios remain strong.
At quarter end our allowance for loan and lease losses to nonperforming loans stood at 120% or 1.2x up 2 basis points from last quarter.
Meanwhile our loan loss allowance to loans remained strong at 3.01% at the end of the second quarter.
In light of the backdrop of an uneven and slow economic recovery forecasting asset quality improvement with certainty is difficult.
As Grayson previously noted our improvement in asset quality exceeded our own internal expectations.
And each quarter will have its own unique characteristics and some volatility should be expected.
However our credit quality indicators continue to be encouraging.
Now let's look at our capital liquidity on Slide 10.
Early in the second quarter we repaid the U.S.
Treasury Department's $3.5 billion preferred stock investment.
This transaction follows the completion of the sale of Morgan Keegan and a highly successful common equity offering.
In connection with the repayment of Series A preferred stock the company repurchased the outstanding warrant for $45 million.
As a result of these capital actions and events our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 11% and our estimated Tier 1 common ratio increased 40 basis points to 10%.
And we continue to review the capital NPRs that were published on June 7.
The proposed minimum capital levels and definitions of capital are largely in line with Regions' expectations.
However we are working to understand all of the proposed changes to risk weightings and are collecting the data to quantify the impact.
Based on our interpretation of the NPRs we estimate our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio will be approximately 8%.
The NPR comment period ends in early September and changes could be made and those changes could result in materially different capital ratios from what we have estimated.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remains solid with a loan to deposit ratio of 80%.
Lastly based on our interpretation we are well-positioned with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
Overall this quarter's results demonstrate the continued progress that we have made on several important fronts.
Our operating results continue to improve driven by solid business performance.
We delivered another strong quarter of substantial improvements with respect asset quality and we further strengthened our balance sheet from a capital standpoint.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing comments.
Overall this quarter's results really demonstrate the continued progress that we've made in entering the second half of 2012 with both positive and encouraging momentum.
While there's still work to be done we are successfully executing our business plans making substantial progress in taking actions that positions us to maximize our opportunity for out-performance.
We continue to make progress even in the face of challenging markets.
In the second quarter we completed the sale of Morgan Keegan and as a result we are a simpler organization focused on the fundamentals of serving our banking customers.
We're now able to offer our Wealth Management customers segment enhanced banking trust and investment products with outstanding customer service.
On the Business Services and Consumer front we have been taking steps that expand and enhance our product offerings as well as simplify and improve the delivery of customer services and the customer focus is central to our business model.
Our associates are working hard to ensure Regions is providing competitive products and services to satisfy customers' individual needs.
We have a competitive team that consistently provides award-winning customer service which we believe is a differentiating factor in today's marketplace.
With this in mind we are continuing to manage efficiency and selectively add to our team.
For example recently hiring additional bankers for growing specialized industries.
We continue to invest in people and technology to build the best foundation for delivery and execution of our business plans and to take advantage of opportunities present in our markets and in this economy.
Although economic growth is expected to remain modest over the balance of the year Regions has levers in place to continue to strengthen our financial performance and deliver improved returns by shareholders.
Operator we are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just first on the Basel III NPR.
I understand you are still reviewing it.
Can you just give us a little more detail on some of the moving parts? And maybe you can talk about some of the areas that there could be further mitigation and how big those can be.
Sure Ryan.
As I've mentioned -- this is David.
The biggest change for us came in the form of risk-weighted asset changes.
And more specifically within that those consumer products that are tied to real estate in particular were our resi mortgage and our HELOC book.
And I will caution this is still an NPR there are changes that can be made and I'm sure will be made that we need to incorporate.
That being said we will look at starting to analyze our business and changes that we need to think through in terms of how that would impact going forward.
Clearly as is you will be holding more capital for those 2 products that I just mentioned.
And those holding more capital clearly would have an impact in terms of the availability of that credit at the prices that we have today.
And so we will look at restructuring those if we have to to minimize the capital impact to us.
I would also tell you that the changes in the risk weights don't take effect until 2015 as proposed.
That too could change.
But we have time to overcome and will modify our business such that we have an appropriate amount of capital at the date that is implemented.
What's in line is as we look at the NPR and we're studying this very carefully to make our comments and recommendations for change.
When you look at our balance sheet most material impact as David said is on the Consumer segment.
And in particular the real estate-related products.
Obviously as these rules are passed in the form they're in today or in similar form it will require some adjustments to our products and will also change somewhat in how we approach that market with those products.
And so even though they won't be implemented until 2015 as it stands today I do believe that the industry and ourselves in particular will start making business model adjustments as soon as we know what the definitive rules will be.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on credit.
It seems like the provision came in a lot lower than I think a lot of us expected.
And with NPL migration now back in a more normal level I recognized credit can be volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
But is it your expectation that we could see the provision running at these levels for several quarters as the reserve begins to come down? It seems like you had some positive comments on housing and it seems like disposals of assets are coming in at better prices than I think we would have expected.
So can you give us a little bit more color there on the provision and the reserve? Yes.
I think clearly when you look at our credit metrics we're continuing to see favorable trends.
As a result of our conservative nature we have clearly communicated that we think that recovery can be uneven.
Although in the metrics we continue to see our metrics perform really at levels better than we had internally forecasted.
But we continue to see an improving landscape from a credit standpoint.
We have seen some recent recovery in some of our markets that relate to housing.
These have been modest recoveries but been more widespread than we would have anticipated at this juncture.
But I do think that when you specifically look at our division our charge-offs remain elevated above normal levels although continue to improve.
But when you look at the provision that provision obviously will also normalize as our asset quality normalizes.
And I'll ask Barb Godin to make a few comments if you will on the same subject.
Yes.
If you look at the impact of our provision really there's 3 factors: One is the reduction in our overall charge-offs that came down quarter-over-quarter; the second would be in the number of resolutions that we saw.
And by that I mean we had a number of payoffs.
So substandard loans and even nonperforming loans where the entire loan was paid-off we were able to reduce or release the reserve on that on those loans; and lastly the mix shift which is as we're putting on much better quality loans we need less reserve than those that we're taking off the back end.
So all in that led to just a $26 million provision.
I would not call that a normalized provision level.
Clearly it's going to be somewhat above that.
But again it'll be in line with what happens with our charge-off.
And if you look at it clearly nonperforming loans were down quarter-over-quarter or 11% about 48% from the peak.
If you look at migration and migration was down 17% quarter-over-quarter and 81% from the peak.
So clearly improving numbers from what we had seen historically.
But if you will the migration is starting to fall in what we'd categorized as normalized rate.
The next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question on the deposit service charges.
David you were saying that if you take out the reserve that you put in place for the customer refund but that would put you back in line with the first quarter.
But typically first quarter is seasonally depressed and you would typically get about a $15 million to $20 million uptick.
So would we still expect to see a level that would be higher than the first quarter level as we move into the third and fourth quarters? Yes.
I think that what our guidance was there to try and give you information that would guide you for the rest of the year that we felt would be fairly consistent with that first quarter number or the as-adjusted second quarter.
Clearly from deposit rate policy changes that we've made there will be some impact going forward.
It's in the $3 million to $5 million per quarter.
Not a big number but we expect that to be fairly consistent with what you see as-adjusted.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then on the net interest margin 2 things: One is we have the CD repricing that's coming through especially in the fourth quarter.
Should there be -- we had kind of been looking for a little bit of further improvement.
We've got a little bit more this quarter than we expected but maybe a basis point or 2 as you kind of went through the end of the year.
The bias maybe why you're saying stable still towards a little favorable move in that interest margin? Marty I'll tell you that we did have a little bit of a more favorable move in the quarter due to our improving our credit metrics.
So there are 2 or 3 points there and we wanted to guide to the consistency or stability of the margin from where we are right this minute.
Because of that we'll see if things of that nature the improvement in nonperformance continue in the third and fourth quarter.
You're right to point out that our repricing in the second half is very strong from a deposit standpoint but we also are looking at historically low 10-year and the reinvestment rates will serve to work against us.
The question is how long will this remain? And so we've been a little cautious and wanted to kind of guide towards the stability of where we are right now.
And if it's higher than that then that will be a plus.
Marty we continue to see and as we said earlier our loan yields appear to be stable and we think that will continue.
But we think there is also still room for improvement in the deposit cost or deposit pricing itself.
The question we have as David just said is where do reinvestment rates go on our investment portfolio? But when we net all of that together we still are indicating that we believe we will maintain a fairly stable margin.
LLC Research Division</strong> The last thing is David as you kind of move in the mix of deposits is the CD runoff just customers taking their money and shifting it into the lower cost? So it's really a transfer of deposit balances or is it an influx of new balances into the lower-cost deposits and then exit of the CDs going to try to find higher yields someplace else? Or is it something that as soon as rates change you'll see a kind of shift back to the CD level once you can get reasonable rates there? Marty what we're seeing is is that when CDs renew we're retaining about 70% of those CDs in the CD product.
The other 30% of the CDs some of that is migrating into other depository accounts or migrating outside our bank.
But clearly we've seen a strong improvement in our low-cost balances deposit account balances.
And believe a healthy portion of that money is being retained by the company.
And I'll also point out that a lot of our liquidity and deposit accounts is with business customers and we continue to see above-normal levels of liquidity in our business checking products.
Your next question comes from Josh Levin of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Some of your peers have suggested that over the last month or so customers are becoming a bit more reticent about investing in their businesses and borrowing given all the macro uncertainty.
Are you hearing that or detecting that from your customers? I would say that the numbers don't appear to support that.
When you look at our numbers our sales pipeline still remains strong still above this time last year.
And if you look at our numbers in terms of growing our commercial industrial loans we saw good growth in the second quarter.
That being said anecdotally I would say you're correct.
What we've heard from our customers as we meet with them is that risk appetite of our commercial customers has softened.
I think we have some of the uncertainties here in the marketplace today and all are well-described in the media each and every day.
I think a number of our customers are taking a less aggressive risk appetite position.
And anecdotally we're hearing that.
Numerically it hasn't quite shown up in our business yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also one of your peers said last week that it's going to close up to 5% of its branches.
As you think about navigating through this very challenging environment for banks is closing branches -- is that on your radar screen? We were fairly aggressive early on in branch consolidation and branch rationalization.
If you recall we closed over 46 branches in 2011.
That's embedded in our expense run rate today.
We have consolidated 7 branches in 2012.
But I would tell you in summary when you look at it from the top of the bank we were aggressive early in branch rationalization and took some pretty strong steps over the last 3 years.
We believe in large part our branch franchise today is going to be fairly stable.
We will make some moderate changes but you shouldn't expect anything of a major level in that regard.
It'll only be making moderate adjustments to our business model.
That being said we are seeing transaction volumes of monetary transactions in our branches decline but we continue to see improvement in sales transactions.
And we are trying to transition our offices with more focus on sales and meeting customers' needs and realizing that monetary transaction volumes will continue to slowly decline through that channel.
We're investing an awful lot of money in our other channels.
We're seeing some remarkable growth in our mobile channel.
But also in our web-based product offerings.
So we're trying to invest in those channels that the customers want most.
But quite frankly our branches continue to be one of our most effective sales channels that we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a question about normalizing expenses.
The explicit credit-related expenses have come down all the way.
We think about OREO expenses.
But I guess can you kind of point us in the direction to think about the further benefit that can come in maybe in the personnel line or the other line as the credit-related expenses the environmental expenses come out? Can you do it in number of employees or just type of business types of things that are going to naturally shrink down over time? Jeff one of the things we try to guide to is looking at 2012 expectation over '11 which we are confident that we would have lower and this is excluding last year's goodwill impairment we'd be lower in 2012 than in '11.
Now we clearly have improvement in our credit cost our environmental-type expenses which are OREO and held-for-sale expenses.
And we reported the net gain that we had in held-for-sale.
So you should expect some unevenness relative to that.
As our nonperforming loans continue to come down and a number of loans in our special asset group comes down we certainly have cost saves that we get there.
That being said we also have an increasing compliance environment where we have to shift and hire people to cover the compliance cost.
We have a new regulator in as well.
And so I think our best guidance right now is to stick with really kind of global year-over-year where we are.
That being said we focus on expenses intently and intense focus on expenses.
We are down year-over-year about 544 positions.
Salaries and benefits is our #1 expense line.
We continue to watch that we watch occupancy cost in our furniture and fixture expenses the top 3 very closely.
Where we have opportunities to tighten up as credit improves for instance we will take advantage of that.
And Jefferson this is a topic that we spend an awful lot of time on.
Clearly as we're looking at what we believe our future earnings potential will be in a low-rate slow-growth environment we continue to believe that we have to have a very rigorous and disciplined approach to expense management.
We're doing a number of things.
There's a number of initiatives across the organization to improve efficiency.
Part of that is people.
Clearly a big part of our expenses is in salaries.
But we really are trying to focus on processes that we can change and improve that allow us to do things more effectively.
We've got new technologies rolling out into our branch systems that allow us to reduce a considerable amount of overhead expenses in our operating environment.
We don't necessarily have a named program like many of our peers do.
But don't misinterpret that.
We've got a very distinct and clear focus on trying to reduce our expense base.
That being said I would agree with David.
Part of our expense savings are to fund headwinds that we're facing as we're having to add stamping and adding technology to make sure that we are effectively managing all of our compliance risk and so there are some offset to our savings.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow-up on the service charge.
Just to be clear as we think about the back half of the year we should look at the 1Q level the $254 million and that would include the $3 million to $5 million drag? That's right Matt.
We've kind of guided to roughly equal that.
Maybe slightly up from there but not a large change from that quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the change that you made did that relate to the sort order the highs to low [ph]? No Matt what we've done is really we try to focus on our funds availability policy as well as our non-sufficient funds policy to ensure that one it is in concert with our focus on service quality.
And as we've looked at that we continue to challenge ourselves every month as we analyze customer activity and customer responses to make sure we're taking the appropriate steps.
This particular adjustment we made to our processes are not around sort sequence but really around the way we handle customers who have come in and preestablished overdraft protection lines and how we handle transactions that come in that exceed the capacity of those preestablished lines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just separately on the reduction to capital the Basel III under the NPR.
I don't know if you have a sense of how much of that 200 basis point reduction is from the undrawn lines.
I guess I'm hearing from some folks that there's a lot of confidence in mitigating the impact of the undrawn home equity lines and commercial lines over time.
I'm wondering if you have any of those numbers at this point.
Matt I don't have the precise numbers.
I can tell you that the impact on unfunded commitments is going to impact some of our peers a lot more severely than us.
And it has to do with the proportion of unfunded commitments that are 365 days and shorter versus longer.
So there is an impact related to that but it is not the major mover the major one is related to our risk-weighted assets on resi mortgage and the HELOCs.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just first starting out on NIM.
I'm just wondering if you think about this mathematically where your loan yields are stable your securities yield have some depression but there's actually very significant deposit repricing in the second half of this year.
What's actually going to hold the NIM down not allowed to go up? Is there any swap off we should think about or maybe any large changes in the securities and liquidity portfolio? No Craig the primary driver is just the reinvestment risk that we have in this low rate environment.
Currently we have about $500 million rolling off of our -- is cash roll-off of our investment portfolio and having to reinvest that as the lower yields continue to drag that down.
So we don't have anything that really sticks out other than that.
Again we caution a little bit on the stability of the margin because we had about 3 points that we picked up in the quarter related to better-than-we-had-anticipated improvements on nonperforming loans.
If we get that kind of improvement in the third fourth quarter like we had then that 3 points would be there.
But we're trying to guide to a little more stable -- stability there.
Research Division</strong> David your securities yield only declined by 3 bps in the second quarter.
So it's actually much smaller than we thought.
Any commentary there would be helpful.
And then do you expect a much sharper decline in the third quarter? And I wondered if you can share with us your new money yield for securities acquisitions.
Yes we didn't expect there to be some added pressure on the investment portfolio in the quarter.
Our going-on yield today for securities is in that right just below 2% 1.70% 1.75% for the mortgage-backed security products that we would be purchasing.
So over time you would see that that's going to put more pressure in the third and fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> On the securities portfolio I mean it looks like your duration is probably around 3 years is that correct? A little shorter than that it's closer to 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Closer to 2 years.
And what type of -- because we've seen different companies have had different prepayment rate speeds across-the-board.
What type of prepayments are you getting off that? About 20.
In the 20 range.
Research Division</strong> And you're reinvesting I guess.
You're reinvesting at the 2-year level or the 3-year level? Yes.
Closer to the 3-year level we'd be reinvesting.
Research Division</strong> That's about like a 1.7% 1.8% level? That's right.
We said about 1.75%.
Just...
Research Division</strong> 1.75%.
Yes okay.
Just following up on the last question is is that do you think your deposits can reprice down? You do have some room in deposits to offset that.
So I'm guessing that with rates where they are and you're guiding to stabilized NIM that you're depending on the deposit rates to reprice along with this to offset that.
Yes.
We have a fairly significant amount of deposits repricing in the second half of the year and that's a big part of how we are confident in the stability of our net interest margin.
And one other follow-up in terms of the investment portfolio we talked a couple of quarters ago about trying to invest in more corporate securities.
We've kind of isolated about 10% of our portfolio in those type nonindustry mortgage-backs.
And those are going on the books in the 3.25% range which also will help stabilize a little bit of the investment yield.
But our biggest benefit that we see in the back half is that deposit repricing on the CD book.
Research Division</strong> And along with corporate security are you taking a look at munis? There are some banks that look at munis and increasing that portfolio also.
No.
We used to have roughly 5% to 7% of our investment portfolio in munis before we got into the economic environment we're in today.
And so we divested all of those and we're a bit reluctant to go back into the muni market thus far.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a follow-up to Ryan's question on the provision.
I recognize that this dollar run rate is going to be quite lumpy as you continue to work through the credits.
But I was wondering if you could help us get a sense of -- as you look at your -- if the improve -- most of the improvement is behind you and you look at where your loan book is today what a normal charge-off rate would look like for Regions in 2 or 3 years and how you look at a normal provisioning rate.
Do we look at reserved loans? Do we look at reserved average loans? Erika it's Barb Godin.
Relative to what we look at for a normalized loss rate we would target somewhere around that 75 basis points of loss through a cycle is what you can expect as we get down to that range.
In terms of what our reserve would be it's not going to be the same as what it was pre-crisis.
I don't think that was horrible neither.
And I think we're just going to have to hold our capital to somewhere between 150 and 200.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David I appreciate all the color on the margin but can you give us a sense of what the loan yields would've been if you excluded the impact of the NPLs getting worked out of the balance sheet this quarter? Yes it would've been about 3 basis points on the loan yields.
Research Division</strong> That was on the loan yield not on the total margin? 3% or 4%.
I mean those numbers can be fairly close.
It's about 3%.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to get a sense for where you stand in your mitigation efforts related to Durbin.
I'll just make a couple of comments.
One is that we continue to look at our consumer business model and see where we can enhance our products but also expand products.
As you are aware we entered the credit card business a little over a year ago.
And we introduced a number of new products in that line in the last few weeks.
So we tried to address our interchange revenue in terms of adding credit customers that will use the credit card for purchases.
But we continue to push the debit card.
We continue to see success in increasing the penetration of the debit card product into our checking account base.
We obviously have seen the revenue on a per transaction basis decline there but we're obviously trying to make up some of our loss through growth.
I would tell you we've introduced a number of new products in terms of prepaid cards that we hope enhanced the view of that customer segment.
And as you are well aware we've continued to migrate our checking accounts from really the free-checking environment to one where accounts are fee-eligible.
We continue to believe that we can mitigate the impact of Durbin over time.
We will not completely mitigate it in '12 but we believe that we can mitigate it over time.
And we continue to be positive about the progress we've made thus far.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your thought process around the potential redemption of your $840 million in TruPS? I know you mentioned that you are evaluating it but if you can just give us more color around what you're looking at there and what the thought process is.
Sure.
We have 2 issues in that 8.45 there's a 3.45 there's price of debit 8 7/8 and there's 500 that 6 5/8.
The 6 5/8 clearly is business capital treatment as this other one.
But we look at that as a reasonable long-term debt yield today.
The other one the 8 7/8 is one where we think we have opportunity to -- as we think about liability and capital strategies via NPR that we could look at and perhaps call given the regulatory event that occurred.
So we're trying to lead it to -- as we are investigating that we'll be putting together our thoughts on that and get back to the investors and analysts regarding that.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then secondly around the reserve level.
Could you talk about the pace in the expected decline in the reserve over from your current 3% of loans to that 1.50% to 2% that Barb had indicated? Yes.
I think that clearly the pace is what's harder to predict given that we think clearly the economy's where it is there's going to be unevenness relative to charge-offs as we've indicated earlier on charge-offs are higher than where we want them to be.
Although we have reserve for.
The biggest determinant of how that 3% comes down closer to that 1.5% to 2% that Barb mentioned is going to be the level of charge-offs.
As we continue to get clarity around that number the pace of that change to get to the 1.5% 2% will become clearer.
As we've said earlier we've looked at the migration of loans to nonperforming status.
We were 3 15 this quarter that exceeded our internal projections.
It's actually less than our internal projections.
The pace of economic improvement in the country really drives that.
That really is an indication of the health of our customers.
And we continue to ask ourselves that same question it's a great question.
It's what's the pace of that improvement going to be? We continue to believe it will be an uneven recovery.
But we would love to see it faster but predicting that pace of recovery is a very difficult thing to do at this juncture.
The only comment that I would add to that is as we think about the third quarter and what we think might be a potential problem loan at this point.
We would think somewhere in that $300 million to $400 million range in terms of migration to NPL.
And you'll see that range when we follow our queue.
But we do believe that it will fall in that range of $300 million to $400 million.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then lastly just real quick.
Around the securities portfolio do you have what the premium amortization expense was for the second quarter? And then what your unamortized premium balance was as of June 30? We don't have that readily available but we can get back with you on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Ketron of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions around the loan portfolio.
You've had really good growth in commercial.
Some of the consumer loan categories we continue to run off in areas you had noted previously.
Do you have a sense to the degree you can control the runoff when we may see the loan portfolio bottom out and you actually may start to see net growth come to the bottom line? What you're seeing the loan portfolio this time is good growth in commercial industrial lending.
We saw good growth in mortgage.
We saw good growth in indirect auto.
We did not -- when you look at the balance sheet we've elected not to place any fixed rate product on the resi mortgage portfolio or to out that production on our balance sheet.
And we've done that predominantly because of our cautiousness around the duration of that asset.
How long it might be on the balance sheet given the low rate environment that we're in today.
So the consumer portfolio continues to decline predominantly because of that decision.
I would say the equity portfolio continues to decline about $100 million a month.
That's consumer de-leveraging.
And we continue to see that de-leveraging.
The ability for people to refinance continues I think to add to that issue.
The good news we saw in our mortgage production is about 60% of our production was refinance and 40% was purchase.
And so the purchase part of that activity really encourages us from first to second quarter.
We saw not only refinancings go up but purchases go up.
So we have some strength I think the housing market's starting to show.
It's slow and incremental but improvement nonetheless.
On the commercial side I just think what you're seeing is that most of our activities in the higher end of commercial middle market and the small business owner the small commercial customer.
It is still behaving an awful lot like a consumer it is still de-leveraging.
And I think as we get more confidence in the economic outlook you'll start to see that segment improve.
What we had said earlier as we felt that our loans outstanding would by the end of the year would be approximately what they were at the beginning of this year.
I would say we have less conviction in that today.
Although we've seen our rate of decline slow we've seen more production on commercial real estate than we saw this time last year and we're seeing that commercial real estate portfolio still declining but at a slower pace.
So we think we'll be close by the end of the year but I think it's a great question.
Research Division</strong> And then one other question your loan yields have held up very well really going back over the last 5 quarters.
And then it looks like some of it's a mix issue you put more indirect into the portfolio.
But is this something that you anticipate that you'll be able to maintain close to despite the rate environment as we look forward into later this year and maybe even into 2013? Okay this is David.
I think Erica's question was really trying to get there too.
So we had 3 call it maybe 4 points related to loan yield that we had related to end of the performance of nonperforming loans this quarter that hopefully they'll repeat.
But if they do then that'll benefit our margin outside of what we're telling you.
Persistently low rates from a loans standpoint yes we'll continue to have some pressure.
But it's really the reinvestment risk on investment portfolio is probably the greatest impact to us from a NIM standpoint.
We are trying to change our mix of our loan portfolio to more to the consumer side.
I've mentioned in my prepared comments about the changes we were making to our credit card program that we purchased last year about a year ago that we'll be converting into our system in the third quarter and we're rolling out new cards and Rewards program.
The purpose of which is to control the customer experience and assist us in increasing our sales production with credit card.
We think that also bolster -- to the extent that we can execute on that bolster our loan yields.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups.
One is on the interest rate outlook there's some debate  as to whether or not the Feds going to keep the paying rates on reserves.
Obviously the EU stopped doing that.
What is your kind of game plan for if that were to happen here? Well I think to the extent that we're not getting 25 basis points anymore everybody will move to going back to what we used to do.
It'll be more credit risk in the system as we go overnight with other counter-parties probably be compensated some for it.
Front-loaded compensation will offset the risk relative to having a 25 basis points with the Fed.
But today we've got net amount that we have on deposit with the Fed down to about $1.8 billion.
It's about the level where we want to be maybe in the $2 billion range and we'll see if that movement is going to happen.
I'm not sure what the odds are on that right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it would be partial mix into more loans to the degree you could and then offset whatever you couldn't do there you'd be doing with other financial institutions.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just second quickie is on HARP 2.
You mentioned that $1 billion in mortgage fees you're expecting in 2012 due to HARP 2.
How much of that have you seen already in 1Q 2Q? That was mortgage production of $1 billion.
If you recall we did about $1.6 billion in total mortgage production in the first quarter and $2.1 billion in the second quarter.
The HARP 2 production is running about 24% of total production.
And that's up significantly from first quarter.
But we're pretty steady.
Right now about $700 million originations a month.
We don't see that increasing a lot from this point.
But we think right now looking at our application pipelines that at least for the third quarter that looks very sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So at least sustainable is what you're guiding to? That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question I think this is still a ways out.
But as far as the CCAR process for 2013 when you all start to put your plan together in the fourth quarter I know there's a lot of uncertainty regarding risk weightings as far as Basel III.
But what's your appetite and priority in terms of raising the dividends about doing buybacks and is the trust preferred redemption you mentioned earlier -- is that part of the plan that was already put through the regulators or is that something that you have to include in your 2013 submission? Well let me talk about kind of our capital plan and kind of stay away from the regulators.
From a capital plan standpoint we will continue to evaluate all capital actions.
You asked specifically about returning capital to shareholders.
The way we view that is we generated the capital and raised the capital so we think our shareholders expect that we redeploy that in our business to grow our business to invest where we can get the best risk-adjusted return back to the shareholders.
And so that's our first priority.
To the extent that growth is not there acquiring product lines entities those kinds of things would be what we would go to second.
And then to the extent we have capital and expect to generate capital returning it to the shareholders in the form of increased dividends and stock buybacks.
That being said we do acknowledge that our dividend payout ratio is below our peers to date.
Now we just repaid TARP and so expectations were that we would put together a capital plan that would include an appropriate use of that capital and we will submit that in January.
The trust preferred clearly the NPR provides an opportunity for the regulatory call on the trust preferreds.
And as we're trying to guide through our prepared comments on liquidity and capital strategies that we would seek to do something not only the trust preferred but other subordinated debt instruments as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaston Serendah of MorningStar Equity.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on following up on economic conditions.
I know you gentlemen spoke a little bit about this already but I'm wondering if you can just give us some color on some of your key markets especially Florida.
There's been some reports of the housing situation kind of improving there but things still seem a little mixed and unsettled.
Just kind of wondering what you're seeing on the ground or in Florida in all the key markets.
Yes.
I mean I think obviously when you look across the 16 states we operate in there are some mixed metrics around housing.
But generally what we've seen is some pretty steady improvement although incremental in most of our markets.
I would tell you that generally speaking inventory levels are down.
And in some markets inventory levels are down at levels we haven't seen in a number of years.
In Florida in particular I would say most of the strength we've seen have been in metro markets.
And in particular we've seen the condominium segment improve faster than we had earlier forecasted.
We're seeing some strength in our business in Florida that have been exceeding our internal forecast.
And we think that while Florida was probably one of the harder hit markets we've seen from a housing standpoint and it's going to take some time for recovery that we continue to be encouraged by some of the signs.
When you look at our mortgage production there's an awful lot more home purchase in Florida.
And in the other markets use of refinance is not an option for a lot of homeowners in Florida but you are seeing home purchase there.
And so I would say the strength is at this point in time seems predominantly located in the metro markets.
Barb would you like to...
Miami as an example seems to have rebounded clearly in terms of pricing.
We're seeing increases in the Panhandle area in Florida and we're even seen increases now starting to happen in places like Ft.
Myers.
So clearly we're seeing that the bottom has been hit generally across most of the markets in Florida and is on the way up.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The 2 questions.
First of all David following your earlier comments about other liabilities and with deposits down at period end you had some redemptions this quarter of some debt.
I'm just wondering with the kind of flat loan growth underneath that are we still just going to see assets continue to shrink? And at what point do you think the earning asset base will stabilize? Well we were trying to guide to in particular within earning assets the loan portfolio being stable from here on out.
So we think we've had good growth we've shown you in C&amp;I.
The decline in the investor real estate portfolio slowed almost $500 million this quarter.
And we see that continuing to attract some but not as rapidly as we have had.
But we'll be de-leveraging on the consumer side and we aren't changing our resi mortgage strategy.
So we think we can have stability there related to our earning assets in particular our construct of our loans.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was getting more at the total balance sheet size right? Because the right side of the balance sheet continues to shrink.
So if loans are flat and you're happy with where your cash deposits are now with the Fed it kind of implies that you'll be just shrinking the investment portfolio.
I just wanted to make sure that I was not misunderstanding that.
Yes.
From a deposit side we did have declines and our average deposits were flat but they down due to the repricing.
We think we can hold where we are with earning assets to be fairly fairly stable from here on out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my second question just relates to salaries and you mentioned that you had a 500-person decline in headcount year-over-year but the salaries line was still up 8% on relatively flat revenue.
So I was just wondering if there's some moving parts inside the salaries line and what we could expect from that going forward.
As we mentioned earlier we continue to watch salaries and benefits expense.
We did have our merit increases actually took effect at the beginning of the quarter.
And that's probably the single biggest item.
The other is pension expense continues to be higher as a result of this extraordinarily low interest rate environment.
So we'll see those 2 things impact us.
But we've continue to look at headcount and that's really from a cost control standpoint our primary lever.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I had was coming back to your comments about the new charge-off ratio through a full cycle of being about 75 basis points.
Since your net charge-off ratio was north of 300 basis points in 2010 does that imply that we should see a net charge-off ratio then in the good years that might be coming up in '14 '15 in the 30 to 40 basis point range? Well it's going to move around a bit.
As you can imagine we're going to try to keep the volatility as down as we can as well as we can.
But clearly if you're going to have 75 basis points through a cycle you're going to have some years that are below 75 and other years that are above 75.
But I wouldn't want to give you a kind of a range right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the total classified and special mention loans that you guys reported this quarter at $5.4 billion is that considered a normalized level or is there still improvement here as well? I know your nonperforming assets will likely continue to improve as we go forward.
But how about the classified and special mention? Yes.
We should continue to see those come down.
If you look at the 90-day past due levels while they were up in Business Services by $34 million this quarter that was 1 account got cleared in the last couple of weeks just didn't make quarter end.
Consumer was down we anticipate that those levels will continue to move in the right direction.
Our 30- to 59-day delinquency levels as well relative down to the quarter.
And again depending on what happens in the economy we're at a track to the economy.
But those are my very early indicators of what I would expect to see in special mention in classified and criticized.
LLC Research Division</strong> Should we think of a more normalized number instead of the 11.7% that you reported here? Is it something after that or 6% or 7% is that considered to be more of a normal number that you've seen in a normal economy? Yes.
I'd hate to point to a specific number because we don't track it the way you're talking of the 11%.
As if we're looking at my criticized loans and my criticized loans are not at that level they're at 8.49% for criticized which includes the classified loans.
And that includes my special mention.
So my 8.49% includes my special mention.
LLC Research Division</strong> And during a normal environment is 8.49% normal or is it somewhere closer maybe to 5% or 6%? Right now it's clearly it's elevated.
And yes it would be somewhat reduced.
I'd give you a range probably a 5% to 7%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in all the nonperforming assets results that you reported this quarter.
Do these results reflect the Shared National Credit exam where you may have participated as a H&amp;O lead or a participant? Yes they do.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one final question.
On the loan pricing for loans the CNI loans in particular the Federal Reserve data is indicating that it seems like pricing is holding up.
Are you guys sensing that? That yes it is competitive but there isn't really any slash and burning pricing going on or is there really that type of pricing going on? No.
I think what we've seen is clearly there's pretty intense competition for loans obviously in this environment.
We saw some pricing compression early on that I think part of that was because pricing would hit -- the spread it really expanded during the recessionary period.
And we saw some compression.
But still pricing is holding up above pre-recession levels.
But it seems to be steady at the moment.
And I'm not saying there isn't the odd transaction here and there where one gets priced at a level we don't understand.
But I would say that is infrequent.
The norm seems to be fairly stable.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know this may sound too optimistic but with all the new challenges that the industry is confronting particularly with the higher regulatory costs and certainly efficiency ratios for most banks are elevated do you think more rational pricing could enter the picture where it doesn't get so cutthroat and people realize that they can't cut prices because expenses are just going to be permanently higher as we go forward? A couple of things.
I think one as this environment extends for long period of time there's going to be some rationalization on the part of competition.
There has to be.
There can be some irrational behavior on the short term.
But on the long-term it has to rationalize.
I think the other issue too is the Basel III rules coming out.
Obviously there's going to be the entire industry stands to revisit our pricing models with those capital allocations and certainly will alter pricing in a number of different lending products.
Your final question comes from the line of Matt Purnell of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick question on your deposit your expectations for deposit growth.
I'm just curious how you're thinking about the potential for the guarantee of non-interest-bearing deposits going away at the start of the year relative to your debt ratings.
I know you've had an upgrade from S&amp;P in March but just curious as to how you're thinking about what your trends in deposits might be at the start of the year? Yes.
I mean we continue -- we continue to deliver a considerable improvement in our deposit cost without demonstrating much of a decline in our outstanding deposits.
And in fact other than the time deposit segment of our deposit portfolio we continue to grow that segment.
We've gone through quite extensive analysis of the deposit guarantee program.
We believe that would have a fairly nominal impact on our deposit base.
We know which customers we work with our customers closely that might be an issue with.
But I think given the capital levels of the industry and where we're at today but that's not as material an issue as it was a couple of years ago.
And so we don't anticipate that being an issue for us at this juncture.
We do not know how to handicap that event and would not speculate on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Grayson you mentioned that anecdotally in some of your conversations with clients that clients are getting a bit more risk-averse given the headlines that we're all reading every day.
I'm curious as to if you combine that with your comments about the potential for pricing on loans going up post-Basel III do you get the sense that your clients understand that that industry-wide pricing is very likely to change in the relatively near term? For commitments and other types of commercial loans? I do not think that the anecdotal information we're hearing as a result of perceived pricing issues going forward at all.
I think the average customer is seeing such a healthy level of competition between financial institutions at this juncture I think most of our customers continue to believe that they're going to have a fairly robust level of competitors competing for their business and pricing would be fair.
I think most of the risk aversion is really over economic uncertainty as opposed to any sort of implications from capital requirements.
Thank you.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Hall for any closing remarks.
Listen we appreciate again everyone's participation today and your interest.
We had some great questions and we thank you for that.
But without any further conversation we'll stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call this morning.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
Also here and available to answer questions are Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
Now that that's covered let me turn it over to Grayson.
Thank you List and welcome everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and appreciate you taking the time to participate in our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Regions performed well in the third quarter growing both fee-based revenue and bottom line profits as we continued to successfully execute our business plans and realize continued asset quality improvement.
Earnings per share from continuing operations was $0.22 per diluted share.
Our third quarter performance builds on a solid first half of 2012 and reflects the positive change underway at Regions a change that is better positioning us for long-term outperformance and change that is enabling us to prudently and profitably grow our business and expand our customer base despite a sluggish and uneven operating environment.
To accomplish this Regions has been and continues to be focused on diversifying and building our revenue sources streamlining our processes to better serve our customers improving our productivity and efficiency and providing new technology that supports our customers' ever-changing needs ensuring superior risk management and further strengthening our balance sheet.
Turning to third quarter results you can see earlier evidence of the progress that we're making.
Fee income posted strong growth during the third quarter driven by record mortgage banking revenues.
Mortgage continue to benefit from HARP 2 refinancing and total refinancings improved 15% from the second quarter.
Through HARP 2 we have refinanced $1.2 billion of home mortgages through the end of September.
Notably approximately 50% of the applications were for customers new to Regions mortgage.
Total loan production increased 2% linked-quarter fueled by mortgage and indirect auto.
Loans outstanding were down 1% as customers continued to deleverage and political economic uncertainty weighs on demand.
However commercial and industrial loan growth remain healthy helping to somewhat offset the favorable decline in Investor Real Estate portfolio.
We continue to improve our funding mix growing our low-cost deposits while reducing our higher-rate time deposits and there is further opportunity for improvement in deposit cost and funding mix.
Let me also point out that according to the FDIC deposit data recently released we have maintained our top 5 market share position in Alabama Arkansas Florida Louisiana Mississippi and in Tennessee.
In the third quarter our net interest margin declined sequentially partially due to a prolonged low-interest rate environment.
David Turner will provide more details in just a moment.
The Federal Reserve's QE3 program announced mid-September calls for purchases of large quantities of mortgage-backed securities for an indefinite period driving down reinvestment yields and putting greater longer-lasting pressure on yields than we previously assumed.
While the third quarter decline in our net interest margin was disappointed -- disappointing we are hopeful that we'll be able to hold it and our net interest income reasonably steady over the next several quarters while improving funding costs partially offsetting these pressures.
Keep in mind that our low loan-to-deposit ratio provides considerable opportunity to add profitable loans to our balance sheet once customers have greater confidence in the economic and political outlook and are more willing to borrow.
Let's move on to expenses.
As discussed previously expense control remains a top priority at Regions and we are focused daily on identifying opportunities to improve our productivity and cost structure while providing products and services that our customers want and deserve.
To that end in the third quarter we continued the implementation of new technology in our branches that will not only lower operating costs but will improve cross-sell capabilities and enhance the overall customer experience in Regions' branches.
During the quarter we also completed the conversion of our credit card portfolio to Regions systems introducing a new suite of card offerings and launched a new card advertising campaign.
Although these actions resulted in elevated third quarter expenses we are confident that they will provide attractive long-term returns.
Currently only about 14% of our customers has a Regions credit card.
Over time we believe we can increase penetration rates to more than 20%.
Importantly we delivered another quarter of asset quality improvement allowing us to invest more of our time and resources in developing and executing profitable growth strategies.
Simply put Regions is transitioning to growth prudent and profitable growth.
While current low interest rates sub-par economic growth and political uncertainty are creating headwinds we are making solid progress executing our business plans and building a foundation that is better positioning Regions for long-term outperformance.
Before I turn the call over to David let me briefly note that earlier today we announced that assuming market conditions are favorable we do expect to consider issuing preferred stock in the near future.
David will elaborate a bit more later.
However we're limited in terms of what we can discuss at this time in this meeting.
Let me turn the call over to David who will discuss the third quarter's financial details.
Afterwards I'll come back and make a few closing comments before taking questions.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
I want to begin on Slide 3 with a quick snapshot of our third quarter 2012 financial results.
We reported net income available to common shareholders from continuing operations of $312 million or $0.22 per diluted share.
Pretax pre-provision income from continuing operations or PPI was $481 million.
Net interest income was $817 million and the resulting net interest margin was 3.08%.
Non-interest revenues increased 5% on a linked-quarter basis and total revenue increased $5 million linked quarter.
Non-interest expenses were up 3% and from a credit standpoint net charge-offs were steady linked quarter while the total loan loss provision was $33 million.
Let's get into some of the details starting with the balance sheet.
Overall balance sheet trends this quarter were driven by continued growth in our commercial and industrial portfolio as well as indirect auto.
However this growth was offset by declines in investor real estate and owner-occupied commercial real estate.
As a result average loans for the third quarter were down $973 million or 1% linked quarter.
Average balances were impacted by a decline of $623 million or 6% in the Investor Real Estate portfolio.
At quarter end investor real estate stood at $8.7 billion down $3.2 billion from 1 year ago.
This portfolio now comprises only 12% of our total loan portfolio compared to 15% a year ago.
We expect this portfolio to continue to decline however at a moderate pace over the next several quarters.
Our owner-occupied commercial real estate portfolio which is comprised primarily of community banking and small business and which tends to exhibit the same behavioral trends as consumers declined this quarter largely due to deleveraging.
Linked quarter we experienced an average loan decline of $338 million or 3%.
Although price competition has increased a majority of the decline was related to payoffs prepayments and scheduled paydowns.
However as noted commercial and industrial loan demand remained solid in the third quarter driven by our integrated approach to specialized lending where our local bankers work with experienced specialized lenders to meet customer needs.
Total production for this portfolio was a solid $9.7 billion.
During the quarter we transferred $185 million of remaining loans related to the Morgan Keegan sale off of our balance sheet.
Excluding these loans commercial and industrial loans on an ending basis grew $570 million or 2.2% linked quarter.
Pipelines remain solid and are slightly above the same level at this time last year as our clients fund capital expenditures working capital needs and increasingly M&amp;A activity.
Line utilization on commercial and industrial loans was up 60 basis points to 43.9% and commitments have increased 12% over the last year.
Our consumer services portfolio which makes up 39% of our total loan portfolio remained steady this quarter despite consumer deleveraging and our continued strategy to sell fixed-rate conforming mortgages.
As I will discuss in a minute these sales led to a material increase in mortgage income this quarter.
Declines in our home equity portfolio continue as customers take advantage of opportunities to refinance.
However this quarter we launched a new home equity loan product to attract a new set of customers that will increase our overall home equity production.
And moving on to credit card as Grayson mentioned during the quarter we successfully converted the servicing of our Regions branded credit card portfolio.
It's important to note that we are focused on expanding our relationships with our current customers now that we can better control their experience with us.
Although overall credit card balances are down due to consumer deleveraging year-to-date production has increased 44% compared to the same period in 2011.
Indirect auto experienced a record quarter of production since we re-entered the business in the second quarter of 2011.
The loan production in this portfolio increased 10% over the last quarter and average loan balances increased 6.3%.
Currently we have over 1 700 dealers in our network and plan to have over 2 000 by year end all within our existing footprint.
In total consumer loan production increased 7% linked quarter totaling $3 billion in the third quarter.
Total loan yields were down 11 basis points linked quarter to 4.18% due to the prolonged low-rate environment and increasing pricing competition primarily within our middle market segment.
Moving on to deposits as shown on Slide 5 deposit mix and cost continued to improve in the third quarter.
Average low-cost deposits increased $385 million from last quarter and $4.3 billion from 1 year ago.
Average time deposits fell to just 16% of total deposits down from 22% a year ago as a result of our continued success in repricing these deposits and growing low-cost deposits.
This positive repricing and mix shift resulted in deposit costs declining to 28 basis points for the quarter down 4 basis points from second quarter and 18 basis points from 1 year ago.
And we expect to drive additional improvement in deposit cost.
We have approximately $3 billion of CDs that are scheduled to mature in the fourth quarter that carry an average interest rate of 2.1%.
Looking ahead to 2013 we currently have $7.2 billion of CDs that will mature.
Of that $4.9 billion mature in the first half with an average rate of 1.69% and $2.3 billion in the second half with an average rate of 0.66%.
Now this compares to our current average going-on rates for new CDs of approximately 20 basis points.
Further our overall total funding cost improved to 56 basis points a decrease of 4 basis points linked quarter and 19 basis points year-over-year.
Now let's turn to net interest income on Slide 6.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $830 million down 2% or $20 million linked quarter.
The resulting net interest margin was 3.08% down 8 basis points from second quarter's 3.16%.
As a reminder last quarter included approximately 3 basis points of temporary lift resulting from a larger-than-normal volume of full payoffs of interest and principal on non-accruing loans.
Overall prepayments and reinvestment of maturities of higher-rate fixed loans and investments contributed approximately 6 basis points of net interest margin compression and $16 million of net interest income pressure quarter-over-quarter.
Of course an offset to mortgage prepayments is the positive impact associated with mortgage non-interest revenue which I will discuss in further detail shortly.
Also the low-rate environment increases the unrealized profits associated with our investment portfolio.
For QE3 the Federal Reserve has sustained and recently intensified its efforts to keep interest rates low.
As a result interest rates on long-term fixed-rate mortgages are at record lows as are yields in agency mortgage-backed securities.
Therefore it will be challenging to grow net interest income and net interest margin materially if the current economic conditions persist.
However we continue to see opportunities to protect the margin by further reducing deposit costs which will help to support a relatively stable margin into 2013.
As Grayson alluded to earlier assuming market conditions are favorable we expect to consider issuing preferred stock in the near future.
If commenced the proceeds from this issuance will be used for general corporate purposes which may include redeeming certain trust preferred securities.
At this time we are not able to make any additional comments regarding this potential issuance.
Now let's turn to non-interest revenue on Slide 7.
Third quarter non-interest revenue was up 5% linked quarter.
Mortgage banking revenue reached a record high in the quarter driven by refinances and new home purchases aided by the government's HARP 2 program.
Approximately 63% of mortgage loans were refinances and 37% were new home purchases and 21% of total loans were HARP 2 related.
Earlier in the year we established a goal to reach $1 billion in HARP 2 related loan production and as of the end of this quarter we reached $1.2 billion exceeding our original goal by over $200 million.
As a result mortgage revenue totaled $106 million up 18% over second quarter and more than 50% over the prior year.
Mortgage loan production of approximately $2.2 billion during the third quarter reflects an 8% increase from $2.1 billion in the second quarter.
We've been able to increase market share by providing customers access to local market -- mortgage bankers and increased capacity through 2 new HARP loan production facilities.
Let's move on to expenses on Slide 8.
Non-interest expenses totaled $869 million an increase of 3% linked quarter.
During the quarter credit-related expenses increased $12 million primarily attributable to quarter-over-quarter fluctuations and net gains realized on held-for-sale property.
Specifically last quarter credit-related expenses benefited from net gains of $26 million as compared to $17 million of gains in the third quarter.
Also other real estate expenses increased $3 million linked quarter.
In addition marketing expenses were elevated this quarter due to the credit card conversion.
Salaries and benefits were also up 4% linked quarter partially related to an increase in incentives associated with record mortgage production and an increase in long-term incentives.
Looking ahead we continue to expect overall 2012 expenses from continuing operations to be down from the 2011 level excluding the 2011 goodwill impairment as a result of our continued and disciplined focus on cost control.
Let's look at our credit metrics on Slide 9.
We continued to make progress with respect to asset quality in the third quarter as several credit metrics improved including criticized loans nonperforming loans and net charge-offs.
Net charge-offs were down 1% linked quarter and exceeded the loan loss provision by $229 million resulting in a total loan loss provision of $33 million.
Inflows of nonperforming loans increased to $463 million from $315 million linked quarter but are down 39% from last year.
As increase is primarily driven by the seasonality of our credit process it does not impact our overall expectations for continued gradual improvement in credit metrics.
During the quarter we had one customer loan for $40 million that transferred into nonperforming loans and was subsequently resolved prior to September 30.
Additionally there were approximately $30 million of letters of credit that funded at quarter end resulting in nonperforming loans.
We currently estimate that we have approximately $300 million to $400 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans which could migrate into nonperforming status in the fourth quarter.
Nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale decreased $31 million or 2% linked quarter.
Held-for-sale loans decreased $68 million or 34% linked quarter and the other real estate owned decreased $17 million or 8%.
As a result total nonperforming assets decreased $116 million or 5% linked quarter but were down 35% from the prior year.
Notably Business Services' criticized and classified loans one of the best and earliest indicators of asset quality improvement continued to decline with criticized loans down 6% or $305 million from the second quarter and down $2.2 billion or 30% from last year.
Our coverage ratios remained solid.
At quarter end our loan loss allowance to nonperforming loans stood at 109% or 1.1x.
Meanwhile our loan loss allowance to loans was 2.74% at the end of the third quarter.
Based on what we know today we expect continued improvement in asset quality going forward.
Let's take a look at capital and liquidity on Slide 10.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 11.5% and our estimated Tier 1 common ratio increased 50 basis points to 10.5%.
Tangible book value reached $7.02 per share in the third quarter up from $6.69 in the second quarter which is an increase of 5% linked quarter.
We're all waiting to receive additional feedback regarding the proposed Basel III NPRs.
However based on our interpretation of the NPRs we estimate our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio will be approximately 8.7%.
Now the NPR comment period has ended and changes could result which could differ materially from capital ratios that we've estimated.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 79%.
And lastly based on our interpretation we are well positioned with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
So in closing this quarter's results reflect our ongoing efforts to focus on what we can control.
We increased loan production by 2% over the last quarter.
We achieved record mortgage revenues asset quality improvement and we continue to focus on providing our customers with new and innovative products and services that help them succeed financially.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thank you David.
Regions is entering the final quarter of 2012 with a solid foundation for growth a foundation that we are strengthening each and every quarter.
We are diversifying and improving our business mix to help maximize our growth opportunities as well as identifying and building profitable revenue streams that have the potential to expand throughout the current economic cycle.
We are focused on improving our productivity and efficiency including controlling our day-to-day expenses undertaking initiatives to streamline operations and investing in technology that enhances delivery and productivity.
We're working hard to understand customers' needs and offer advice guidance and the best products and services will help them make better financial decisions.
We believe we can create the kind of shared value our communities need to thrive by offering competitive products that are delivered in a transparent and trustworthy manner.
And finally we remain disciplined in our risk management committed to growth that is both prudent and profitable.
While our work isn't complete I am confident the business plans we're executing will lead to ultimate outperformance for Regions and reward our stakeholders over the long term.
Operator with that we're now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> A little bit more about your margin outlook here.
I knew you indicated that you expect a relatively stable outlook but can you help us quantify your expectations just given the compression we saw on the loan yield and the securities yield this quarter? Just curious how that may interpret into continued compression further out.
Yes John.
This is David.
We -- just to make sure we level set as I mentioned in my prepared comments we were at 3.16% in the last quarter second quarter.
We had guided to 3.13% being kind of the normal recurring margin for that quarter given that we had 3 points of favorable interest reversals.
From that we had indicated we would be relatively stable.
Obviously QE3 came in in the latter part of the quarter which put pressure on rates in particular the reinvestments that we have in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio.
We are doing a couple things.
I mentioned the amount of deposits that we have maturing in the fourth quarter and the improvement in our diversification of our investment portfolio.
So when you look at some of the things we're doing in the investment portfolio changing that risk profile moving new investments into new issue CMBS and corporate bonds we think that that will serve to offset some of the downward pressure we see in the reinvestment rates.
So with that we believe we can guide to a stable margin from where we are today.
And we say relatively stable.
You can look at where we are today and give us a point or 2 either way but we think those would be relatively stable in the fourth quarter and into 2013.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then secondly back to credit.
I know you indicated the potential movement of $300 million to $400 million of investor real estate onto NPL status for the quarter.
Can you give us a little bit more color on what you're seeing there? What types of loans are these and what changed during the quarter to highlight these? Be glad to.
When you look at the guidance we've given after the second quarter we thought the migration to nonperforming status would be in the $300 million to $400 million range.
If you look at what happened in the quarter and you look at sort of our loan portfolio today and in particular the distressed loans in our portfolio we've really gotten our portfolio down to the point that even though we've gotten very granular there still is the opportunity for just a handful of credits to move that number from one quarter to another.
If you look at our overall credit trends we continue to be favorably encouraged.
Most of our trends have a very favorable direction to them.
And if you look at the composition of those loans we continue to believe that for the fourth quarter we'll be back in that $300 million to $400 million range.
In addition as David had indicated earlier if you look there are a few credits that were late in the quarter making that transition but early in this quarter leaving that status.
We've still continued to be encouraged by the level of resolutions that we're seeing.
And I think that as we move forward we still remain confident that the quality of our loan assets is improving.
And I'll ask Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer to add some color to that.
And the only other thing I would say John beyond what Grayson said is I would remind everyone that typically our third quarter is our seasonal quarter.
And for the last couple of quarters as you'll note -- the last couple of years I'm sorry is you'll note our third quarter typically goes up followed by a better fourth quarter.
I would anticipate that seasonal pattern continuing again.
As we look through the numbers and what we saw coming in there is nothing that really stood out.
I would also note that 53% of our nonperforming loans in total are now current containing as agreed on the Business Services side an improvement from the 46% we saw last quarter.
So again there's nothing of major note that we saw or nothing that was disturbing that we saw coming in.
As we did point out there were a couple of large items that moved that number this quarter and again we hope to -- even the letters of credit have those resolved as we move into the fourth quarter.
Like we've said before there's going to be some unevenness in our numbers from quarter-to-quarter but from our perspective no change in our direction.
Our direction is still moving in the same direction it has been for the past several quarters.
Research Division</strong> I don't know.
So no impact on charge-offs or provision as a result of this move that you're expecting? No.
I mean in fact we look at our portfolio today the composition of our past portfolio our prime portfolio continues to improve as well as Barb mentioned the composition of our nonperforming part of our portfolio.
Like she just said 52% of it is paying as agreed.
We feel like we've got it appropriately reserved.
And while our level of nonperforming loans are high relative to our peer group so we think that our charge-offs will stay elevated for some period of time but our allowance is sufficient to cover that and we continue to keep a higher allowance.
Your next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to John's question on the margin.
Can you give us a sense of how much premium amortization there is left in the portfolio? And I believe David you commented that you are hopeful to keep NII flat.
But if you look you're seeing loan yields compressed.
We only saw 1 month of QE in the quarter.
So do you think you can actually grow the loan portfolio over the next few quarters to offset margin pressure? Your first answer is we have about $1 billion in premium amortization and booked premium at the end of the quarter.
And in terms of loan growth we obviously are working hard but want to be prudent with regards to the loans we've put on.
We want to make sure we're being paid for the risk we take.
And demand is challenged especially in the small business and commercial middle market.
That being said we are continuing to have an increase in production a nice increase this quarter-over-quarter and we believe that the investor real estate which ran off about $700 million this past quarter starts to moderate declining but at a moderate pace.
We did have $200 million I think I had mentioned that $185 million in my prepared comments of loans that we have as part of the previously established agreement with -- in the Morgan Keegan transaction to sell those.
So that's $200 million that you won't see coming out in the future quarters.
So we will continue to work to grow loans which would help us stabilize and increase our net interest income.
I think if I could just add to that real quick is that when you look at our loan production we continue to be very confident in our ability to produce loans outstanding.
To David's if you sort of walk through our different lines of business we're seeing good strong growth in commercial and industrial and indirect auto and in mortgage.
But we've made a few decisions that certainly are impacting our net out -- our net loans outstanding at the end of the quarter.
And that is number one we're not holding a lot of our mortgage production.
Most of our mortgage production we're releasing that into the secondary market.
And if you look at our commercial real estate as David said it was -- industrial/commercial real estate was down approximately $700 million for the quarter and we released $185 million as part of the Morgan Keegan-Raymond James transaction.
And net-net that was the decline in our loan portfolio.
And so we continue to be encouraged by production.
As deleveraging by customers starts to slow down I think we can start to see some decent growth out of our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is a question for both I guess for both Grayson and David.
Just when you think about performance we obviously saw a top line pressure from declining margins and we did see expenses increase now.
I know you noted that expenses will be down year-over-year and it makes sense that you are trying to invest for growth in the future.
But can you talk about some of the things that you're doing internally to control expenses? And as you look out assuming we don't see a huge change in the revenue and growth environment at what point do you start to take a hard look at expenses particularly on the branch side and start to take out some significant costs? Well I think that -- we've had a focus on expenses for quite some time and expenses were up third quarter versus second quarter.
As David mentioned earlier part of that increase in expenses obviously was our credit card portfolio conversion.
We spent quite a bit of money there not only on the conversion itself but on the advertising of that in communication with our customers and as well as increased staffing to accommodate the telephone calls and the support of those customers as they went through that transition.
But when you look at expenses overall we continue to drive down total staffing in the company become more efficient.
We've been heavy investors in technology.
We've implemented quite a few new technology projects in the last few months that have really improved our efficiency but at the same time improved our service level.
If you look over the last 4 years we've probably consolidated our branch franchise more than any of our peer group and continue to look at ways to extract efficiency out of our branches.
I think you should anticipate that we'll continue to have a strong focus on expense management.
That being said there still are times when we're going to spend to grow.
We've got opportunities to grow our business.
And as our business managers and market managers come to the table with ideas where we can spend some money to grow this organization in a prudent and thoughtful manner we're going to take advantage of those opportunities but you should anticipate core expenses will continue to incrementally decline over time.
And I was going to add to that.
I did want to point out that you'd mentioned expenses were up revenue was up as well.
And expenses we pointed out a couple of things shouldn't be recurring.
I would tell you that we're in the middle of budget season as is everybody else.
There is not a meeting that we don't go to where we talk about expenses at the end of the day.
And as every expense that we incur that we continue to challenge ourselves on that spend.
We do want to make sure that we're making investments for the future though and we will continue to do that as Grayson mentioned.
So you haven't heard of a named expense initiative from us; you will not because it's something we do each and every day.
And we'll give you more guidance in terms of what we think expenses for 2013 will look like on the next call.
Research Division</strong> Just as maybe a quick follow-up how much core expense are you actually taking out versus how much are you reinvesting in technology and growth for the future? Well just different projects have different -- I don't have a number a consolidated number in terms of how much savings we have that we've reinvested.
We really don't look at it that way.
We look at making investments that are prudent that pay themselves back in a reasonable period of time and also help our -- from a customer service standpoint.
So we can get back to you and get a more definitive answer on that Ryan.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of the questions with regard to the NPL trends and I wanted to make sure we were taking away the right thing.
Of the $463 million in growth NPL additions this quarter David am I interpreting it right that $40 billion -- or $40 million of that was subsequently resolved after the quarter? Erika it was resolved within the quarter.
What we did is we believed that had those not been resolved by September 30 they would have been an NPL.
So we thought the right thing to do was to show that gross migration.
So it's not in NPL because the loans are gone but we showed it transferring in gross and then we have it resolved.
When you look at our supplement you'll see it coming -- you can't -- it's embedded in the resolutions but in and out in the same quarter.
But the $463 million is a gross migration and the $40 million was netted out of total NPLs.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And Barb could you explain to us what is unique about your market or your loan portfolio that you typically have a seasonal increase in NPLs in the third quarters? Certainly Erika.
What we do is we continue to credit service our loans throughout the year.
But again as we look at the spring when everyone files their taxes we sit down and we have that much harder look with the audited tax returns from our customers and have those conversations with them as well as getting updated appraisals.
And just by those sheer conversations if we hear anything in those discussions from our customers that leads us to believe that we may not get paid back our full principal and interest completely over the time horizon we will then go ahead and make that determination to put it into nonperforming loans.
And we have a large book that actually comes due for servicing in that same timeframe.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one follow-up question one more follow-up if I may.
David on the liability side could you remind us what the opportunity is in both the size and the rate of the TruPS that you could potentially redeem and whether or not that rate is hedged out? Additionally given that -- our fixed income team for example thinks that you can issue 5 year senior much more cheaply than where your long-term debt is costing you right now.
Could you give us a sense of whether or not your trajectory for a stable margin includes some liability levers that you could pull off in the wholesale side beyond the trust preferred? Sure.
I'll tell you our guidance does not include all the liability management initiatives that we are considering at this point.
Specifically to the trust preferreds we do have 2 issues.
One is a $500 million issue that is at 6 5/8 and then there's a $345 million issue that's at 8 7/8 and we continue to look at those as we do our long-term debt and subordinated debt in the bank to evaluate all the liability and capital management strategies that are at our disposal.
So we will continue to do that and all of that has not been factored into the guidance that I gave you.
Your next question comes from Matthew O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One more NIM question here.
The $1 billion premium that you have in the securities book obviously that's a high number but you're amortizing a lot of that each quarter.
Can you give us a sense of what the amortization is and maybe what it was this quarter versus what it was last quarter or a year ago? We had amortization in the third quarter of approximately $75 million and that was up from about $69.5 million in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're obviously amortizing at a fairly high rate there.
Just separately the service fees I know they bounced nicely quarter-to quarter but I think last quarter had some one-time adjustments and you had been looking for the fees to bounce back a little bit more.
Is that just lower NSF or overdraft usage or anything else going on there? We do expect that run rate to get back to next quarter where we are -- where we were in the first quarter.
We did have some adjustments in the third quarter approximately $11 million that we believe will not recur in the fourth quarter.
And so you can think of it Matt in terms of a run rate being more consistent with the  first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you tell us what those adjustments were and maybe why they were not done last quarter when you had some other adjustments? That $11 million was just adjusting the estimate of the reserve that we booked in the second quarter.
We got a better number in the third quarter and made the adjustment when we became aware of it.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about just the earning asset trajectory.
So the next couple of quarters you've got $3 billion in CDs coming off and then $5 billion in the first quarter so a significant amount of the balance sheet that's got the opportunity to reprice very near term.
Can you tell us about just how you're planning on either retaining the CDs or should we continue to expect the overall size of the earning asset base to continue to shrink as it has the last couple of quarters as you've been doing this positive remixing on the deposit side? Well let me -- Ken we've been executing a pretty aggressive deposit repricing strategy for a number of quarters now.
We continue to be confident in that strategy.
The results are apparent in our numbers.
We still believe there's opportunity to continue to price down our overall deposit costs but more importantly we continue to be pleased with the mix shift that we're seeing.
Time deposits are now down to 16% of our total deposit portfolio.
And we do believe we've still got opportunity to continue to drive down that total cost of that book of business.
We've been seeing retention of the time deposits that mature sort of in about the 70% range.
We haven't seen that change over time.
It's stayed fairly consistent through this strategy and we would anticipate it continuing.
That being said a lot of those dollars that leave the time deposit category appear to be landing in other products to some degree with inside the bank.
And so while we've reduced our reliance on time deposits considerably our overall deposits have only compressed moderately.
And so -- and we continue to as we said earlier to have a very healthy loan-to-deposit ratio this quarter of 79%.
So at this juncture we plan on continuing to execute this same deposit strategy and incrementally improve that deposit funding over time.
On the earning asset side we continue to have more of our earning assets and securities than we'd prefer.
We're looking for opportunities to lend.
We're finding traction in certain areas.
As David mentioned our pipelines look strong.
On the commercial side of our house the third quarter is always a seasonally low quarter for that activity but our pipelines are probably about as strong as we've seen them in a long time.
That being said like you've heard on a number of these earnings conference calls customers seem a little hesitant the last month or so to borrow to invest but we anticipate like we normally see a pretty strong surge in the fourth quarter and we anticipate that.
But we are monitoring sort of the conviction and confidence of our customers as we move forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Grayson.
And then to just follow up on just the securities portfolio side to your point about the portfolio being bigger than you'd like it's continued to grow as an offset to the shrinking loan portfolio.
So maybe David can you talk us through kind of your -- what's rolling off the book and what you're finding what you're investing in incrementally as the securities portfolio has continued to grow to kind of fill this gap? Yes.
We have just normal cash flow coming off the portfolio $500 million a month I think I've mentioned that before that we have to put back to work.
Some of that's gone into mortgage-backeds but the rates on those are so low we're looking for alternatives.
Those alternatives include new issue CMBS as well as corporate securities.
You can see where we are today in our portfolio being about $2.5 billion in those 2.
That will grow and that will be a place where we put some of our cash flow that we have.
We obviously -- our preference is to deploy that in the loan books but we want to make sure that we're growing the loans prudently and being paid for the risk we take.
We're encouraged by our pipelines on the loan side.
We're encouraged by the conversion that we finished with credit card.
There are a lot of positives that we have that are adding to help us offset this low-growth low-demand environment that we have for loans.
But we also will look to liability management as we discussed earlier and find the most prudent use of our cash flow.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one just quick one for you David on the expense side.
You mentioned in the press release there's a whole bunch of line items that had -- that looked like they were just above trend whether it was that long-term incentive comp and a couple of the card conversion et cetera.
Can you just give us a kind of a directional help in terms of how many of those things or can you quantify the things that were either one-time or above trend this quarter in terms of what expenses should look like next quarter? I can on the conversion.
The conversion cost us roughly in that line item you're referring to in the $8 million range that shouldn't be there.
The long-term incentive is the amortization of the grant that was made in the second quarter.
So that amortization obviously is there through the award period.
But that's the answer on the conversion piece.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> David a question for you.
You've mentioned a couple of times the opportunities that you're seeing to deploy cash flow out of the portfolio into new issue CMBS and corporate securities.
Just curious as to where you're thinking those yields can be put on for your portfolio relative to the MBS opportunities that you're seeing.
Yes I think if you're looking at MBS today you're looking at a 1.25 range.
We think in the -- when we're talking about corporates we're talking about the AAA tranche a pretty safe tranche that's somewhere in the 1.5 to 2.5 range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on HARP if I can.
You mentioned that about 1/2 of your year-to-date originations in the HARP program have come from outside your own portfolio.
Could you provide a little color as to where those mortgages were sitting previous to your refinancing them? Yes I'll give you a little bit of color.
So we mentioned we did about $2.2 billion in total mortgage production last quarter this quarter.
21% of that would've been HARP II production and down just a little bit from last quarter.
Last quarter would have been about 22% So we're only down about 1% from where we're at.
What we're finding is that that production is really coming to us both our customers and someone who had their original mortgage with someone else and 50% of those to date have been from another competitor.
I think if you look at the market share data for mortgages without calling names most of the mortgages are held by a handful of institutions in this country much larger institutions and that's where the vast majority of it's coming from.
All of our mortgage office mortgage bankers are out in our local markets.
And obviously most of our production is coming from those states that we have the most dominant share in which is Florida Alabama Tennessee Mississippi Louisiana and Arkansas.
So that's where the bulk of the majority of our production will come through.
But the mortgage business is a very concentrated business in this country and the vast majority of the mortgages are held by 4 or 5 players.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then if I can a final question for you David.
I know you mentioned that you're considering issuing preferred stock.
Is that something you would think about filling the entire 150 basis points of Tier 1 qualifying preferred basically all at once? If I estimate that that would be around $1.4 billion of preferred stock based on your Tier 1 risk-weighted assets of $91 billion.
Yes I want to be careful about mentioning any particular size based on our release earlier.
But suffice it to say you can see what our Tier 1 non-common Tier 1 is made up today our trust preferred securities.
I think it'd be prudent to have more noncommon Tier 1 instruments in there at an appropriate amount.
And so preferred stock obviously can fill that.
How that's done and how much and how many times is something that we have to address in time.
And I don't want to talk specifically about how much we might have at any point in time.
Your next question comes from Chris Mutascio of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David you had mentioned on the preferred offering I really don't know what you can say about it but that it could go to potentially redeeming trust preferreds.
Can I look at that as a dollar-for-dollar transaction that the preferreds we raised may be dollar for dollar with the TruPS that we may redeem? Again I want to be careful how much I say.
I think I pointed out that we have 2 issues the $500 million at the 6 5/8 the $500 million at 6 5/8 and $345 million at 8 7/8.
So it's $845 million in total and we have not and don't want to discuss what we would be doing with each or any of those issues that are outstanding.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I was trying to figure out if the potential benefit on the margin from the TruPs redemptions or possible TruPS redemption will be offset by the higher preferred dividend but I guess we'll have to wait to see what type of preferred is offered.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys give us a little more color on the $300 million to $400 million of potentially new commercial real estate mortgages? I know you gave us some color but are they primarily in Florida or are they in Georgia or are they hotel loans or investment-owned properties? Can you give us some background on them? The $300 million to $400 million is what we are estimating that will migrate to a nonperforming status during the fourth quarter.
That's our estimate of what we anticipate for the fourth quarter.
And the mix of that migration I think you could look at the mix that we're reporting today for the third quarter and we think that that mix stays fairly consistent throughout.
And again with the large percentage of that being in the investor commercial real estate space.
Barb would you like to add to that? You're exactly right.
What we are seeing is investor real estate is coming down generally each quarter in terms of the migration of that book continues to shrink.
So the C&amp;I book is staying relatively flat.
We're seeing the consumer book staying relatively flat.
And again that's why we feel good about positioning that our potential problem loans for the quarter will be between $300 million and $400 million next quarter.
The other comment I'd make is on the second quarter as well.
Go back 1 quarter and look at the $315 million that did come in.
I think we mentioned on that last investor call everything that could've gone right during the quarter went right during the quarter.
So everything we had hoped would move in the right direction did.
And what we saw in the third quarter obviously it's more of a normalized quarter where certain things didn't happen in the third quarter but will happen now in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Some of the banks the OCC regulated banks have had to set aside higher nonperforming assets and charge-offs for these Chapter 7 loans that they're referring to.
I know you guys obviously didn't have to do that but do you have an estimate that if the non-OCC banks are required to do this what your number might be in terms of increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs due to the change by the regulators? Gerard we're currently looking at that right now sizing it up.
At this point we don't see it as being a material number for us.
Remember again that we have a very active consumer assistance program and that program has been in place for a while.
And what we have done on that program is when a customer goes through that program we typically charge the loan down to value at that time and put the loan on non-accrual and TDR if necessary.
So again we will be coming out in the fourth quarter with any numbers associated with the change to the guidance.
But at this point as I said we don't see this being a material number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally your capital is obviously quite strong especially under the Basel III NPR methodology that may be the final methodology.
Last year of course in CCAR you came out and repaid TARP.
Should we expect that you would apply to return some capital to shareholders whether in the form of an increased dividend or buybacks in this year's CCAR? Well I think that you -- if you look at Basel III and where our numbers are at those instruments are based on the composition of our balance sheet today without us taking any actions in terms of business models and products that we offer.
So I think that Basel III number obviously over time will be different as we change our business model to -- in reaction to Basel III depending on how that is finalized.
But I think as you look at our capital position we continue to strengthen our capital position every quarter.
We'll be submitting the 2013 CCAR stress test if you will here in not too many months away.
And we have any number of items under consideration.
But I think it'd be premature on this call to disclose our thoughts on that.
But clearly we're making a pre-assessment at this time on exactly what should be included in that submission.
And given our capital position we are going to be very thoughtful in that regard.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to circle back and David just get a little more precision around the credit card expenses and the unusual one-time impact in this quarter and how quick that could maybe run off.
I wanted to make sure we're including both the marketing as well as the conversion costs.
If you look at the marketing number it's up about $7 million this quarter; outside services is up about $5 million.
Maybe there's some -- you were mentioning $8 million of conversion costs.
Can you put all that together and then how quickly does that whatever the number is run down in the future? Yes Marty.
I think if you -- that was the message I was trying to send is if you take the $8 million out of the run rate in terms of being a one-timer and I think you're going to get pretty close to what the run rate -- the remainder is on the run rate there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that'll roll off in the next quarter? That's correct.
It won't to be there in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was just curious as we've talked earlier this year about the debt rating and going back to investment-grade and how that was going up again to help you attract some of your traditional customers back in on the deposit side.
Have you begun to see some of that benefit? And is that what's spilling over even into the C&amp;I loan growth that you're beginning to see now? Yes Marty...
Let me.
Clearly Marty we've seen benefit as our credit ratings have improved in particular on the commercial side of our business on both loans and deposits and quite frankly on overall relationship and ability to attract and retain those relationships.
And so overall it's been a net positive.
How you quantify that is somewhat elusive but anecdotally I think it's been a very positive story.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then David one last question.
If you look at the loan yield compression in kind of seems like you went from first quarter to second quarter you got some of those payoffs and prepayments that helped keep the yield on loans higher.
So if you kind of smooth between the first to the third quarter and then kind of look at where it started to decline back in the fourth quarter your loan yields are going down 5 to 6 basis points per quarter.
And then on the flip side if you look at your deposit costs they've been going down probably 4 to 5 basis points per quarter.
So in a sense of kind of holding margin flat going forward if you bring in some of the other kind of funding costs in programs that you're talking about you're almost matching deposit costs and loan yield compression on a quarterly basis except for just an anomaly that occurred last quarter? Yes I think if you look at last quarter we had mentioned we had on the loan side about 5 points in our loan yields that were due to the interest reversals that we spoke about earlier.
So if you take our about 3.29% in that quarter and reduce that 5 points you're at -- I'm sorry 4.29% and reduce that 5 points to 4.24% you can kind of see that now little smoother to the 4.18% that we have today.
The mix of our loan portfolio is a big driver.
We're encouraged again by our pipelines that we see.
We're encouraged by while about pricing is under pressure we still see a favorable spread out there that we can get.
Our credit ratings helping us to get into places that we hadn't before helps.
Looking at things like credit card which obviously give you a better yield.
And having that conversion done we expect the opportunities to grow there.
So there is going to be continued pressure on loan yields but we think we can offset those with the improvement in deposit costs.
You can run the numbers.
Based on the $3 billion of deposits that are maturing in the fourth quarter at 2.1% is a pretty significant buffer to the headwind that we're facing on the low-rate environment.
Your next question comes from Jennifer Demba of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your monologue that there was some pricing competition increase particularly on the middle-market side.
Just wondering if you could give some color on what you're seeing in commercial loan pricing right now up and down the spectrum.
Yes we've got -- we're using quite a bit of analytics on pricing.
I would tell you that in the upper end of the middle-market space large commercial space we've seen obviously increased competition and you've probably seen pricing moderate over the last few quarters but it's been fairly stable.
I think that it's down a little bit from the peak of a few quarters ago but certainly at or above historical trends on commercial/industrial lending.
In investor commercial real estate space spreads there are still much higher than historical averages.
And so while there's a lot of competition and there is pricing pressure we still see pricing holding up fairly well.
As you get down into the business and community banking the smaller credits there's more pricing competition there.
There's a few different players in that market and we are seeing that part of the segment come under a little more pressure and pricing has moderated lower trended lower in the last couple of quarters in that particular part of the segment.
Not a lot of demand in that segment and so a lot of competitors and few borrowers so you're seeing a little more pressure there.
Your next question comes from Greg Ketron of UBS.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned I think on prior calls and prior guidance or outlooks that in the longer term normalized loan loss reserves maybe kind of settle in a 1.50% to 2% range and net charge-offs maybe somewhere around 75 basis points.
In looking at the last couple of quarters if you project out these loan loss reserve levels you could be approaching that kind of 1.75% to 2% range maybe in the middle of next year realizing that the reserve releases will slow down.
And if that -- one I guess the first question would be in terms of the longer-term view of the reserve the charge-offs assessed still intact.
And then the second part would be if that's the case there's obviously some earnings that will need to be replaced.
And maybe what are the things that you're looking at Regions in terms of the business strategy to try to fill that void that may be created by the provision expense going up? Yes Greg this is David.
We do believe based on what we know today and obviously there's some accounting rules that are being proposed on the allowance but let's use today's rules we still believe in that 1.5% and 2% as a reasonable range.
And I know that's kind of wide but that's the best we can do at this juncture.
We know where our charge-offs have been elevated.
We said they would be elevated but we have those reserved for.
If you think about the 75 basis points of charge-offs that's a through-the-cycle charge-off rate.
That means you would expect that there are some periods of time where that's lower.
And if you look at the type of credit that's going on the books today for us it's pretty clean it's pretty good which is why our provision is where it is.
The provision is taking care of the new stuff that we have or any diminution in the credit quality of what's on the books.
And we're seeing that stabilize over the last several quarters which is why we can provide where we are.
The charge-offs are separate.
And again we already had those reserved for and as they come through we take care of them.
So what you need to look at in terms of estimating provision is look at our credit quality whether it be in terms of criticized and classifieds.
I mentioned that in my prepared comments as being one of the best and first places one could look as to how your credit quality is trending.
And criticized and classifieds continues to come down for us which tells us what our -- informs us as to what our future provisioning and reserves will be.
So don't put the 75 basis points in as the low watermark.
That's a through-the-cycle number.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
So really as you look out and think about how things may evolve and I know it's early but think about charge-offs being potentially below that 75 basis point level longer term? At some point you would expect that to be the case.
To be able to articulate a 75 through the cycle that means they have to be below that at some point.
Your next question comes from Gaston Ceron of MorningStar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a quick follow-up on that last question that -- a couple of minutes ago on the commercial loan space question.
Indeed it seems like you guys and other banks have seen -- have been seeing some nice growth in C&amp;I.
Again following up on that last question does it feel like as things stand now in the competitive space are the other banks in the space do you think are they -- as they chase the segment are we at a stage where they're compromising loan quality for market share? Or would you say the competition is still pretty rational if you will? I would say that from our perspective we still see the competition as being very rational.
Not that you don't get the anecdotal comment from time to time but I would say that our general perspective is the competition is rational but everybody's out looking for business.
And so we run into competition in both customers' and prospects' offices and we all are after -- after the business and competing for it.
But we're not seeing -- we aren't seeing -- you aren't seeing a big change in underwriting structure.
You are seeing competitive pricing.
Clearly pricing is part of the underwriting but at this point in time we just aren't seeing a lot of anomalies in that regard.
That concludes today's final question.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Hall for any closing remarks.
Well just let me close and say thank you for your time and your interest in Regions Financial and we look forward to meeting with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call this morning.
Our presenters today are our President and Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
And also here and available to answer questions are Matt Lusco our Chief Risk Officer; and Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
With that said let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of this presentation.
Grayson? Thank you List and good morning and welcome to Regions' Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We certainly appreciate your participation and respect your time.
We view 2012 as a transformational year for Regions with fourth quarter results reaffirming our positive momentum and providing a solid foundation for the future growth of our franchise.
During 2012 we achieved a number of key milestones through the successful execution of our capital and business plans.
We completed the Morgan Keegan divestiture.
We issued approximately $900 million of common stock redeemed the preferred stock issued to U.S.
Treasury and repurchased the related warrant.
We significantly improved asset quality our risk profile and strength at enterprise risk management.
Our credit ratings improved.
We further enhanced our technology platform.
We issued $500 million of preferred stock and redeemed $345 million of trust preferred securities.
And most importantly we achieved sustainable profitability.
On a continuing operations basis full year 2012 net income available to common shareholders was $1.1 billion or $0.76 per diluted share.
Lower credit-related expenses driven by significant improvement in asset quality benefited 2012's results.
Let me point out just a few notable asset quality metrics.
Nonperforming assets including held for sale dropped $1.1 billion or 36% year-over-year the lowest level in 4 years.
Net loan charge-offs declined 47% for the full year the lowest annual level since 2008.
In addition results also reflected successful efforts to expand and deepen customer relationships and increase prudent loan production strengthen expense management disciplines and improving funding mix and cost.
Our emphasis on customer service and customer loyalty along with enhanced product offerings and delivery channels enable us to grow and deepen our customer relationship.
As a result noninterest income on an adjusted basis increased despite a number of business headwinds.
Mortgage banking revenue was especially strong in 2012 as mortgage production totaled $8 billion.
This includes $1.6 billion in HARP 2-related production.
Throughout 2012 approximately 50% of HARP 2 applications involve customers new to Regions mortgage which allowed us to introduce new customers to Regions Financial and expand our business opportunities across all our lending segments in both wholesale and retail.
Total new and renewed loan production across all customer segments was a strong $57 billion for the full year.
New production totaled $28 billion in 2012 up 14% from the prior year.
Unfortunately our strong production results have not yet translated into balance sheet growth as period-end loans outstanding were down reflecting the continued deleveraging actions of our customers and further derisking of our Investor Real Estate portfolio.
However we did demonstrate favorable balance growth in our Commercial and Industrial portfolio and our indirect auto portfolio.
In 2012 we also continued to improve our deposit and funding mix lowering both average deposit and total funding costs 19 basis points.
As a result we were able to expand our net interest margin 4 basis points for the year despite another challenging year of low interest rates.
From an expense management perspective full year 2012 expenses excluding goodwill impairment in 2011 were down 2% in line with expectations and included net reductions in staffing of about 1% or 280 positions.
In the current challenging revenue environment effective operating expense management is critical.
As a result we remain committed to generating positive operating leverage.
At the same time we must continue to invest appropriately in people technology and products to ensure that we have the best team the right technology and competitive products to improve productivity and efficiency.
Again 2012 was a transformational year for Regions.
We've clearly demonstrated that we have a viable business plan in place and that we are successfully executing on that plan to build a strong foundation for prudent profitable and sustainable growth.
I'll turn it over to David for a discussion of fourth quarter 2012's financial trends.
Afterwards I'll return to spend a few moments discussing 2013 growth opportunities.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
Let's begin on Slide 3 with a quick snapshot of our fourth quarter 2012 financial results.
We reported net income available to common shareholders from continuing operations of $273 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
Adjusted net income available to common shareholders from continuing operations was $311 million or $0.22 per share.
Pretax pre-provision income from continuing operations was $493 million on an adjusted basis.
Net interest income was $818 million and the resulting net interest margin was 3.10%.
Noninterest revenues were up 1% from the prior quarter while noninterest expenses were down 2% on an adjusted basis from the prior quarter.
And from a credit standpoint net charge-offs decreased 31% linked quarter while total loan loss provision was $37 million.
Let's look at some of the details starting with the balance sheet.
Regions experienced continued growth in our Commercial and Industrial and in indirect auto loan portfolios.
However this growth was offset by declines in real estate-related loan portfolios.
As a result average total loans for the fourth quarter were down $1.1 billion or 1.4% linked quarter.
That being said we expect to see growth in loan production and anticipate this production will outpace attrition by the second half of 2013.
As a result based on what we know now we are projecting loan growth in the low single digits for 2013.
For the quarter total lending loan balances were primarily impacted by a decline of $991 million or 11.4% in the Investor Real Estate portfolio.
At quarter end Investor Real Estate ending balances stood at $7.7 billion down $3 billion from 1 year ago.
This portfolio now comprises 10% of our total loan portfolio compared to 14% a year ago.
We expect this portfolio to continue to decline at a moderate pace over the next couple of quarters and more specifically we believe that we have approximately $1 billion of Investor Real Estate that we will derisk and then grow from there.
Our owner-occupied commercial real estate portfolio which is comprised primarily of community banking and small business which tends to exhibit the same behavioral trends as consumers declined this quarter due to customer deleveraging and lack of demand.
Linked quarter we experienced an average loan decline of $203 million or 1.9%.
Although price competition has increased a majority of the decline was related to prepayments and scheduled paydowns.
However as noted Commercial and Industrial loan demand remains solid in the fourth quarter driven in part by our integrated approach to specialized lending where our local bankers work with experienced lenders to meet customer needs.
Total production for this portfolio was a solid $10.4 billion.
Pipelines remain solid and are slightly above the same level at this time last year as our clients fund expenditures -- capital expenditures working capital needs and increasingly M&amp;A activity.
Commitments have increased 4.2% linked quarter and 12.2% from the prior year.
Our consumer services portfolio which makes up 39% of our total loan portfolio decreased by $352 million or 1.2% as consumer deleveraging continued.
As you may recall from prior quarters our strategy has been to sell our fixed rate conforming mortgages.
Late in the fourth quarter we began the process of retaining our 15-year fixed rate conforming mortgages and we believe this strategy supports our overall efforts to grow the balance sheet and effectively manage our exposure to interest rate risk.
Declines in our home equity portfolio continue as customers take advantage of opportunities to refinance.
However we recently launched a new home equity loan product to attract a new set of customers.
Results have been encouraging thus far as loan production for lines and loans increased 23% over the prior quarter.
Average indirect auto loan balances increased 6.7% quarter-over-quarter.
We expect the indirect portfolio to continue to grow at a steady pace throughout 2013 driven by expansion in the dealer network from approximately 1 900 dealers to 2 400 dealers as well as by increases in auto sales volume.
Total loan yields were up 3 basis points linked quarter to 4.21% primarily due to interest recoveries on nonaccrual loans.
Moving on to deposits.
As shown on Slide 5 deposit mix and cost continued to improve in the fourth quarter and total low cost deposits increased $2.1 billion from last quarter.
Time deposits fell to 14% of total deposits down from 16% linked quarter as a result of our continued success in repricing and growing low cost deposits.
This positive repricing and mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining to 22 basis points for the quarter down 6 basis points from the third quarter and we expect to drive additional improvement in deposit cost.
Looking ahead to 2013 we currently have $8.3 billion of CDs that will mature.
Of that $5.4 billion matures in the first half with an average rate of 1.51% and $2.9 billion in the second half with an average rate of 53 basis points.
This compares to our current average going-on rates for new CDs of approximately 20 basis points.
Further our overall total funding costs improved to 50 basis points a decrease of 6 basis points linked quarter.
Now let's turn to net interest income on Slide 6.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $831 million or relatively flat linked quarter.
The resulting net interest margin was 3.10% up 2 basis points from third quarter's 3.08%.
We were pleased with the performance of the margin.
However there were some temporary positive impacts from interest recoveries and acceleration of deferred fees related to loan payoffs.
Together these items added about 2 basis points to the margin.
So really you should level set our margin at 3.08%.
However even without these impacts margin remains stable and in line with our expectations.
Even though the low-rate environment continue to push on portfolio yields with paydowns and higher-yielding securities being reinvested at today's low levels that effect was largely offset by the improvements in deposit costs and the lift from our trust preferred securities call.
In a continued low-rate environment we continue to see opportunity to protect the margin through a number of factors including continued reduction of deposit costs and our retention of 15-year mortgages.
These factors support our outlook for a relatively stable margin in 2013.
Of course a rise in interest rates would further benefit the overall margin and net interest income.
Let's look at noninterest revenue on Slide 7.
Fourth quarter noninterest revenue from continuing operations was $536 million a 1% increase linked quarter primarily related to an increase in service charge income.
Mortgage banking revenue while down $16 million from the third quarter remains strong and continues to be driven by new home purchases and refinances aided by the government's HARP 2 program.
Approximately 63% of mortgage loans were refinances and 37% were new home purchases.
20% of total loans were HARP 2-related.
And importantly as of the end of the fourth quarter less than approximately 20% of our loans eligible under the HARP 2 guidelines have been refinanced.
As a result we expect mortgage revenue to remain strong for the next few quarters.
Moving on to expenses on Slide 8.
Noninterest expenses totaled $902 million an increase of 4% linked quarter.
However excluding the expense associated with the termination of a third-party investment in a REIT subsidiary which I'll speak to shortly and debt extinguishment cost related to our trust preferred call noninterest expenses were $849 million representing a $20 million or 2% decrease over the prior quarter.
Additionally during the quarter professional and legal expenses benefited from a $20 million decrease in legal reserves.
As we have previously communicated we remain focused and disciplined on expense management and constantly challenge all of our associates to be mindful of every dollar they spend.
Additionally we expect further improvement in credit-related expenses.
As a result we anticipate 2013 expenses from continuing operations to be below those of 2012.
Let's look at some of our credit metrics on Slide 9.
We continue to make progress with respect to asset quality in the fourth quarter as several credit metrics improved including criticized loans nonperforming loans and net charge-offs.
The provision for loan losses was $37 million or $143 million less than net charge-offs.
Total net charge-offs decreased linked quarter by 31% or $82 million to $180 million.
Net charge-offs as a percent of total average loans dropped below 1% for the first time in over 4 years.
Inflows of nonperforming loans decreased to $350 million from $463 million linked quarter.
Nonperforming loans decreased 11% from prior quarter to $1.7 billion the lowest level in almost 4 years.
In total nonperforming assets decreased $296 million or 13% linked quarter.
Notably one of the best and earliest indicators of asset quality that's Business Services criticized and classified loans continued to decline with criticized loans down 12% or $639 million from the third quarter.
Our coverage ratios remained solid.
At quarter end our loan loss allowance for nonperforming loans stood at 114% or 1.14x.
Meanwhile our loan loss allowance for loans remained solid at 2.59% at the end of the fourth quarter.
And based on what we know today we expect continued improvement in asset quality going forward.
So let's take a look at capital and liquidity on Slide 10.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 12% and our estimated Tier 1 common ratio increased approximately 30 basis points to 10.8%.
Additionally in the fourth quarter the company successfully issued preferred stock totaling $500 million and part of the proceeds were used to redeem $345 million of trust preferred securities.
Also in the quarter we extinguished a $203 million liability associated with an investment by a third party in one of our REITs and we incurred $42 million pretax $38 million after-tax and early termination costs.
This redemption removed approximately $28 million of associated annual expenses.
We will continue to prudently evaluate liability management opportunities as we look to efficiently manage our liquidity debt and capital positions.
Tangible common book value reached $7.11 per share in the fourth quarter up from $7.02 in the third quarter an increase of 1.3%.
Based on our interpretation of Basel III we estimate our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio will be approximately 8.9%.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company continues to remain solid with the loan-to-deposit ratio of approximately 78%.
Lastly based on our understanding of the new amendments Regions remains well positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio upon its implementation.
Overall this quarter's solid results provide positive momentum as we head into 2013 and provides a foundation for sustainable growth.
With that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing comments.
Thank you David.
And just let me make a few brief closing comments and then we can open up the lines for your question -- questions.
As I indicated earlier 2012 was a year of progress for Regions.
As we look ahead to 2013 we expect to face a business environment that in many ways resembles the year just completed.
The pace of economic recovery continue to be positive but incrementally slower than desired.
Our industry our customers and our economy continue to deal with a substantial level of both global and domestic uncertainty.
But overall our confidence is building.
As a result we do anticipate a stronger second half in 2013 as the economic and fiscal uncertainty abate and our markets continue to strengthen.
The Regions team is focused on growing our customer base and generating positive operating leverage.
Our efforts to derisk have begun to moderate.
Our expectation is that business should stabilize and begin to grow this year.
We have demonstrated growth in some customer segments such as Commercial and Industrial and indirect auto.
Additionally we have experienced strong growth this year in our mortgage business.
But the growth needs to be balanced across all of our lines of business.
We continue to be encouraged by our level of loan production but we need to begin to realize net growth in our outstandings.
Our confidence is growing and our business continues to strengthen across the organization as we see improved pipelines applications and originations.
We remain disciplined in our efforts to control expenses and continue to see opportunities to improve efficiency.
But we are committed to a balanced approach that invest in technology people and products where the opportunity to grow revenues or improve efficiency exists.
Our capital position and capital management process are much improved and we are committed to returning an appropriate level of capital to our shareholders as our performance dictates subject to supervisory review.
In closing our business model is a relationship banking strategy.
It works to build deeper and more productive banking relationships by addressing the specific financial needs of our customers.
We believe this approach will build shared value for our customers communities shareholders and associates.
Now let's open up the line for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is one on your margin outlook.
You've spoken in conferences in the past about being open to using some of your excess capital to call some of your long-term debt.
I guess the first question is a are you still open to that in 2013? And b does your margin guidance for stability include potentially calling some long-term debt? Yes Erika this is David.
Yes we have consistently wanted to put ourselves in the position to optimize our balance sheet structure in terms of its costs on the liability side.
We've been doing that through our deposit side as you've seen.
And from the debt side you've seen some of our utilization of our excess capital if you will to rightsize and adjust the funding.
We do have other opportunities.
Without going into specifics I think if you evaluated what we have outstanding you could probably glean what would be some potential targets.
We do have elements of that not all but elements of rightsizing our liability structure baked into our margins.
But we want to see how things play out during the year.
There's still uncertainty with regards to the economy.
So we haven't baked in all the potential opportunities that we do have but some are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sure you'll be asked this question several ways but let me be the first to attempt it.
Your adjusted expenses were $3 471 million last -- this past year.
And I guess as we're thinking about the magnitude of decline will it be similar to the 2% decline that you talked about in 2012? Or is there an efficiency ratio that you could point us to as a target? I guess it's the one question I'm getting from investors in terms of magnitude of that outlook.
Yes we have not quantified that yet.
We kind of gave broad guidance that we would be down in '13 from '12 just like the guidance we gave you last year at this time.
Things that we can point to there is not -- there's no one particular silver bullet in that expense number.
If you look at our expense run rate you'll see that -- actually our largest expenses end up being salaries and benefits and occupancy and we think those are 2 areas that we will continue to work on to bring those down even further.
Yes we moved our credit card servicing in-house from paying a third party that we think will have some savings.
We talked -- I talked earlier about the savings related to one of our REITs.
So again there's no one place that we can point to credit-related expenses and others that as we continue to improve nonperforming balances and levels we have some opportunity there.
So I think net-net we can see that being down.
As we get closer and go through the year perhaps we could put a finer point on that.
And Erika we've really tried to build a strong expense culture over the last few years and have to David's point when you look at our 2 predominant expenses which really have been personnel and also in facilities we continue to rationalize both.
Last year we were down on a net basis some 280 positions.
But we actually had added back over double that number that we had added back as we brought in our credit card processing.
We had to have a number of people added there as well as we've added people in risk management.
And we -- quite frankly we've added people bankers that are in customer-facing positions but we've been able to offset that through efficiencies in other parts of the company.
We invested an awful lot in technology in our branches to improve the efficiency of that entire branch channel.
We continue to think branches are an important part of our distribution strategy but we're trying to rationalize the expense of that channel to try and improve the efficiency of that channel.
But as David said our expense strategy -- expense management strategy is really not a branded program but it's just a way of making sure that we've got a strong culture that is focused on efficiency and improvement across all of our businesses and continues to look for ways to reduce our overall expenses.
And we did that successfully in '12.
We believe we'll be successful again in '13 and have guided to that point.
Erika I should have added you asked about targets.
We think we can have an overhead ratio still in that mid 50 to upper 50 range.
So we still have some work to go...
Over time over time.
Over time.
And of course we need -- revenue is a component of that too and we need more revenue to get us to those levels.
Your next question comes from Kevin St.
Pierre of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> As we think about potential capital return and the CCAR process you're over 1 percentage point higher on Basel I Tier 1 common than you were the last go around in the CCAR in Basel III but your estimate seems to be already where it would need to be if not higher.
Could you talk to us about your capital plan and what your capital return priorities would be? Sure Kevin.
We like to be in this position a lot more than going into where we were a year or so ago which gives us an opportunity to do different things.
Honestly we would like to use first and foremost our capital base to grow organically.
We think we -- as I mentioned we think we can grow our loan book in '13 but that's really number one.
Number two we do believe that we have a capital base and profitability where we're accreting capital that allows us to return more to the shareholders than we have in the past.
We as you know submitted our capital plan in the first part of January and we'll be discussing that with our regulatory supervisors.
So it's a little too early to be able to talk about what that looks like.
But having an appropriate return to the shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks clearly is something that we think makes some sense.
As you know we've acquired our credit card portfolio about 1.5 years ago.
We look for opportunities with asset classes like that to use our capital as well.
So that's kind of the 4 things that we really think about in terms of positioning ourselves from a capital standpoint.
We do know and acknowledge where we are with regards to Basel III and our Tier 1 common under Basel I and we think that gives us optimal flexibility to work with our shareholders and to grow our company.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And similar question on the loan loss reserve side.
You've got no matter how we look at it whether it's reserves to NPLs or reserves to annualize charge-offs high levels.
How -- do you think that there is a floor to the reserve to loan or reserve to NPL levels? Or how much of that can we expect to see flowing through earnings in 2013? Kevin this is Grayson and I'll make a few comments and I'll ask Matt and Barb if they'd like to comment on this.
But we try to stay very disciplined through our process.
We've had a methodology that we've been following on calculating our allowance.
It's a very analytical process and we've been competent in that process.
We continue to believe that as credit improves that you'll see that allowance moderate closer to what peers have given the relative mix in our portfolio.
If you saw this quarter continued improvement.
And absent any economic shocks that we don't anticipate today we think that that pace of recovery continues.
That being said we have to let our process work and we have to be very disciplined in that regard.
Matt? Barb? Yes the only other thing I'd add is I think as we've stated before we don't -- we certainly do not see levels of reserves sinking to the levels they once were something that once upon a time when there was a 1% of outstanding type range.
We think that will settle out industry-wide at a floor that's something north of probably 1.5%.
So I think times have changed in that regard.
And of course in a FASB statement out there that we certainly don't anticipate coming into play for quite a while but I think it does show prevailing changes of thought as it relates to where levels of reserve go.
Certainly I concur with everything Grayson said about our methodology and it's consistent application.
And that methodology and our processes together with the pace of our improvement will dictate those reserves as we go forward.
Barb anything you'd like to add? Nothing to add.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification if I could on the expense guidance.
Are you going off the adjusted number? I'm sorry if I missed it the $3.471 million? That's right.
That's an example.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I noticed the headcount was actually up a little bit this quarter.
Was that just more seasonal in nature? Or can you just give some color there? Yes I mean you saw headcount's up just a little bit this quarter sort of as we sort of transforming if you will a little bit to more of a growth strategy for '13.
We added a few bankers in that regard but you'll see that moderate some as we get into the year as we drive some efficiency out of some other areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final question if I could on the thoughts on share buyback.
Now your stock is trading above tangible book value does that kind of change at all your mindset around buybacks versus dividends? Well Michael I think that as -- we've gotten this question before.
Clearly when you're trading below or at tangible book value that makes you think one way the higher you trade on that from a share buyback you have a tendency to question that leaning in another direction.
That being said we're still trading closer to tangible book value.
And if you look at our embedded cost of equity it's still high.
So you think about the return that you get from an investment kind of buyback compared to where you're going to put that marginal dollar and that kind of informs us as well.
Again we've submitted our plan in January.
I guess our industry is not quite as dynamic as we once were to take advantage of what market forces are and that's just the way it is today.
That being said we think we'll have an appropriate return to our shareholders and we'll be releasing that information at the end of March.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just some thoughts on the timing of when loans might bottom out or maybe how much they go down before...
I mean you mentioned some growth in the back half of the year.
Just any sense of how much more runoff and not to pinpoint 2Q or 3Q but any more clarity around the trajectory of loans would be helpful.
Yes I mean Matt if you look at our loan growth last year our loans period end to period end were down about $3.6 billion.
3 of that was in the Investor Commercial Real Estate portfolio.
It has been -- in terms of trying to forecast that runoff it's really been driven largely by the improvement in the economy and the availability of credit elsewhere for some of these distressed credits.
And so the runoff for '13 was faster than -- I mean for '12 for '12 was faster than we had early in the year forecast.
And as you probably are aware when we got into the fourth quarter of 2012 there were a number of decisions being made in anticipation of tax code changes that created a sense of urgency around resolving some of these more distressed credits and so we saw some special activity there.
So all that being said the runoff in that portfolio was a little faster than we'd anticipated in '12.
We see it today moderating in '13 and moderating from a couple regards.
One is we think that we got the number of distressed credits in that portfolio down to a level that we believe most of our runoff in that portfolio will come in the first half of the year.
The second issue is in 2011 in Investor Commercial Real Estate we did about $1 billion of production.
In '12 we did $2 billion.
So we more than doubled the production in that portfolio in that customer segment.
We're encouraged by the early signs we see in '13 so we think we'll have a good '13.
So we think we'd start to see stabilization in that portfolio by midyear '13.
That being said is that our forecast -- the accuracy of being able to forecast that is challenging but we believe that's where we think we are today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on the net interest margin they're relatively stable I guess that'd be versus the 3.08% quarter [ph]...
Yes that's right.
That's 1 or 2 points either side of that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then is that just relatively steady throughout the year? I mean you've got it -- with the CDs coming due and obviously there's some seasonality in 1Q I mean there's some pluses and minuses but relatively stable throughout the year? That's right.
There's obviously more challenges early given where the 10-year is and we do forecast a low but slightly improving rate towards the back half.
So it gets a little bit more expansive potentially expansive in the back half.
So the first half is more challenging on that comment but we still think we can maintain stability even then.
We do have a number of time deposits maturing in the first and second quarter and those maturities are more heavily weighted towards the end of first quarter than the first part of first quarter.
So we do think that while we indicate a stable margin throughout the year our forecast would say that that stability is easier to come by later in the year than early.
But we still believe we're going to be able to achieve a fairly stable margin.
The part that we can't forecast is as we get resolutions on distressed credits many times we get the benefit of interest recovery which aids our margin like you saw what happened this quarter gave us about 2 basis points of benefit and those come when they come and so you can't predict them.
But we would anticipate through the year in all likelihood we'll see some repeat of that activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Grayson I just wanted to follow on the last question there and just expand it a little bit to just the average earning asset side of things.
So understanding you'll have some loan growth but as you just mentioned you do have quite a bit of the CD book running off.
You've got some of the long-term debt as well.
So can you just talk to us about how the earning asset progression goes as well? Does it continue to also decline? How do you mix shift different categories of the asset side as loans do start to grow from a period end perspective? Yes Ken this is David.
You should expect to see some modest reduction in earning assets throughout the year but that from a margin standpoint gets taken care of because of what you mentioned change in mix of our balance sheet whether it'd be from the liability side or the asset side.
Things like on the asset side we talked about our loan growth we talked about our 15-year mortgages we've talked at previous conferences about changing our investment portfolio and taking on more credit assets than we have because we have very solid liquidity.
And so you'll see us take a little more risk there.
And then we have elements of liability management that we continue to work down on the right side of the balance sheet.
But -- so specifically your earning asset question is a modest reduction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if we bring that all together it presumes that net interest income dollars would likely be down this year right just on flat margin against the modestly smaller balance sheet? I think what you need to do is compare that and then also look at kind of the trends in terms of the 10-year for last year compared to where you think it might go this year.
We started pretty high in the 10-year last year in the first quarter I think we topped out I don't know what 230-ish and we're behind that right this minute.
So there are a lot of factors that go into where you think revenue may come out but those are the -- that's the main one you needed to look at as well as earning assets and liability management.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one just follow-up on the mortgage question.
Can you just talk to us about the dynamic between how much mortgages actually you think about intending to keep as a proportion of that total loan growth you're expecting and then what the offsetting impact would be on the mortgage banking line by not getting the gain on sale? Let me kind of frame it up in terms of what last year might've looked like.
So had we had this change it would've meant about $1.2 billion in terms of volume and call it spread on the gain in the 3 25 to 3 50 range so you can do some quick math to see what gains are relative to retaining that on the balance sheet.
So today 15-year mortgages are in call it 2 or 3 quarters percent offset with if you didn't sell them taking the proceeds and investing them in mortgage backs which going on today with a like product close to 1.5%.
So those are the kind of things you think about and you can probably use what I just gave you and construct the difference between spread income versus gain on sale.
Your next question comes from Josh Levin of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> As you think about top line growth where specifically do you see the greatest opportunities for top line growth in 2013? I think that obviously you have to look at continuing to maintain NII at a strong level because of the reduction in expense that goes into that line item.
I think you have to look at continued solid mortgage performance and it was very strong this past year.
It should be strong going in and through 2013.
If you remember back to 2012 at this point I don't think many people projected that mortgage would stay as strong as it did and we are looking at -- we think mortgage will continue to be very strong for us.
Growing our customer households is a priority for us.
We picked up additional NIR there.
Production and growth in our credit card book which we saw in the fourth quarter and as you recall we brought that conversion in the latter part of the third quarter so now we can control the customer experience.
We grew accounts which helps us from a credit interchange.
There's no one magic bullet.
It is getting back to basics and growing every one of our businesses that we think can generate both NII and NIR for us.
Josh I think when you look at income statement when you're trying to figure it out where can we really grow I would agree with David I don't think there's one category that's going to dominate that.
Clearly last year our loan production increased some 14% year-over-year on new production new to Regions and we are encouraged by that.
I think what we saw was sort of some slowdown sort of into late third early fourth quarter sort of across our businesses but then saw strong pickup in December.
And I would tell you December from an activity standpoint was probably one of the strongest months we've seen in a couple of years.
December was a very good month for us and an encouraging month.
And so I think when you look at where our opportunities are clearly for us to grow top line revenue we've got to grow loans.
We believe this can be a transition for our company in '13 to get back to more of a growth strategy and we've got a lot of momentum in the field across our franchise.
And so I think if you look at where revenue streams have been I think NII has got to improve for us to deliver on that.
NIR has predominantly been driven by 2 things really our sort of transition to -- from sort of a free checking environment to a fee-eligible environment.
We think we've gotten through that transition now or are back in a position to grow checking accounts in our company.
We also think from a mortgage standpoint we did $8 billion in production last year.
We saw sort of seasonally slowdown in the fourth quarter between the holiday effect that you have in that fourth quarter.
Top lines are back pretty strong.
Is it going to be as strong as '12? I don't know but it looks pretty strong to us at this point.
So few more quarters we'll know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you said 2012 was a transformational year for Regions.
Given where you are now and you're past this inflection point where do you see yourselves in the M&amp;A landscape? I think at this juncture we're still focused on growing organically in our franchise.
I think the M&amp;A activity is obviously opportunistic in nature.
We're paying close attention to everything that's going on in the markets.
But quite frankly our focus right now in this company is trying to make sure that we're delivering on organic growth sort of earns us the right to participate in whatever happens from an M&amp;A standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> I think I missed it going back to the mortgage follow-up with some of the mortgage questions of the $2.1 billion of production how much did you keep and how much was 15-year product? Yes I think from -- most of that was actually sold into the market.
I can't remember the specific percentage.
Research Division</strong> And what you were talking about was that going forward keeping 15-year product would be about $1.5 billion? Yes.
Paul we've been retaining -- of the $8 billion we've been retaining roughly about little less than 20% of that.
It's the only thing we've been retaining in large part was the non-agency eligible and also some of the adjustable-rate product that we had in there.
We've been releasing the fixed rate mortgages.
We transitioned in the fourth quarter the holding the 15-year fixed rate product into our portfolio.
But quite frankly very little of that actually hit in the fourth quarter.
That transition takes about 90 days and so you'll see more of that occurring in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> In the first quarter.
And then you said you launched a new HELOC product.
Is this going to be for portfolio product? Can you add some more color to that? Yes we had historically did an equity line offering.
And in the third quarter this year we've put together a fixed rate fully amortizing equity line -- equity loan product that we rolled out to all of our consumer channels and production in the fourth quarter was up some 23% over third quarter.
We were encouraged by the results of that.
We like that product and that it is fully amortizing and it's fully funded on the date of origination.
And if you look it sort of how it stacks up from a Basel III standpoint it's a very capital-friendly Basel III product.
Research Division</strong> Is this mainly second liens or can be first and second liens? It's both but it's predominantly first lien.
Barbara do you have the exact numbers? I don't have the exact numbers to bring into production but what we do have going on in HELOC right now all-in is -- 52% of it is first lien of the entire portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up on some of the questions Paul was asking.
In terms of HARP it seems like you guys may have added capacity.
You noted that take-up rates have been almost 20% so far.
Can you give us your expectations of how high you think take-up rates for HARP could go as we look out through the rest of 2013? Well if you look at our portfolio we're servicing about $40 billion in mortgages.
That's large for us but in terms of the overall market we're a fairly small player but $40 billion in servicing.
And if you look at -- when we run the analysis we've only refinanced we believe approximately 20% of the customers in that customer base into the HARP II program.
If you look at our production of the $8 billion in mortgage production we did last year $1.6 billion was HARP II-related.
Of that $1.6 billion only 50% of that was mortgages that we serviced.
So -- and it varied from month to month quarter to quarter but I would say irrespective of which time periods you looked at it ranged from 23% 24% production to as low as 18% 19% production.
But I think sort of keeping it in that 20% of production range is sort of where we still think that sort of falls out over the next few months unless there's a shift in customer behavior that we have not yet seen.
But there are an awful lot of people still eligible for that program.
We're reaching out to those customers making sure they understand the program and making sure they understand the benefits of that program and then trying to help them through that program and so I think it's a win-win for the customer and for our bank so we're working hard on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on expenses when you think about the Regions 360 initiative how much incremental dollar spend are you putting into this as we look out over 2013? And how do you anticipate us seeing the benefits of this coming through? And just when we think about the overall expense base you alluded to credit-related costs continuing to come down should we expect to see credit-related cost coming down but core operating expenses actually increasing from the current run rate? Well let me tell you your first part was Regions 360.
Regions 360 is an approach to doing business the way we want it done with our customers which is to help them through all their needs through all their financial needs.
Grayson had mentioned earlier about making investments in people that generate revenue for us.
Don't take 360 as being a new initiative where we have to hire a bunch of people.
It's getting our people to do what we want them to do to execute on behalf of our customer.
And we think you'll see that in terms of more pull-through in terms of getting a deeper relationship with our customer.
And as an example today 50% of our deposit customers have one product type with us that we need to expand that and Regions 360 will certainly help us do that.
So it's bringing the full bank to our customers that we expect.
From an all-in expense point again we think our adjusted expenses for '13 will be down from '12.
No one area really drives that.
It's just got constant focus on every single line item.
So if you wanted to look at the biggest movers you have to look at our largest expense categories that we currently have which are salaries and benefits and occupancy expense.
We do have things like credit-related it'll come down some as nonperformers continue to attrite.
And I mentioned credit card servicing earlier and then the REIT-related savings that we had.
We talked about inside the company we've got to generate positive operating leverage.
And in order to do that we have to look at both expenses and revenues and clearly have to be disciplined on expenses.
But where there's opportunities to invest in people or technology or products that we believe has an opportunity to generate revenues and to generate positive operating leverage we're going to take advantage of that.
But your earlier question you've really got to be pretty disciplined in that balanced approach to make sure that your investments are smart.
But we recognize we still got to manage the expenses but you still got to have a franchise as an ability to grow also.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio at Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up I know we're kind of beating a dead horse on expenses but David could you determine what the overall environmental costs were in the expense line in fourth quarter and what a normalized run rate of them might be as we go forward? Well let me kind of give it to you for a year.
So if you kind of look at our run rate we still think we have $200 million in terms of environmental expense some of which we will always have.
These aren't going away.
We do think there's over time maybe up to 1/2 of that number perhaps a little less than that.
I would not look to that as being a huge driver of any expense savings that we get '12 to '13.
Yes it will be a piece of it but I think as I mentioned earlier that you really have to look at all the categories because we have an intense focus on every dollar that we spend and that will just be one of the areas where we have some savings in '13.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's good coloring.
If I can follow-up with 2 quick questions more logistical.
The preferred dividend this quarter if I did my math right on the most recent preferred offering is that dividend going to be closer to $8 million per quarter than the $4 million that was before this quarter? That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then finally you're going to save about $28 million annually on determination of the third-party investment and the sub.
Is there any lost revenue to that termination? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well first I have to David and Grayson applaud you on the 15-year mortgage decision.
I did want to know a little bit of background of how you were thinking through that because we've talked about it so much in the past looking for some term assets but kind of what's changed your thinking at this point? Well Marty as we mentioned all year we couldn't make arguments on both sides of that trade.
We thought at the time that the gains were more important to us as we continue to accrete capital and put ourselves in the position that we're in capital wise.
Honestly with a low-rate environment you're taking -- you're having to analyze that marginal dollar.
Where do I put it to get the best return -- risk-adjusted return I can get? And over the year as we got -- as we became very comfortable with our capital position and again after looking at the markets' thoughts on how I treated gain on sale versus lack of loan growth that also has to enter into the picture.
And so when you kind of bring those 2 things together we felt that it was time for us to switch the thought and put the -- give up the incremental liquidity if you will for mortgage-backed securities and put it in the 1 4s that go on the balance sheet.
So it was a close call either way but we think this shift for us will be net-net positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is it a peer substitution for securities or when you dip into that $3.5 billion of short-term assets which are only earning 22 basis points.
Will there any be real redesign or shifting of asset sensitivity or are we still waiting on that? Well you'll continue to see us work down.
So I guess at yearend now that you see our balance sheet we're at $3.5 billion earning 0.25 point that number shifts around quite a bit you shouldn't see us on average throughout the year to have that much.
Most of that is incremental to the proceeds if we did -- if we sold the loans and took the proceeds we'd go into some of our mortgage-backed securities.
So you're trading out 2 and 3 quarters for 1.5.
We already have our repositioning of our investment portfolios I previously mentioned to take more credit-related assets but I think you should think about it in the context of a mortgage-back versus the mortgage itself.
LLC Research Division</strong> And looking at credit card balances they've been dropping pretty consistently and now we're bringing this on board we finished the transition.
Do you think that those balances can start to turn around as you go forward now? Yes we saw some stabilization towards the end of the year and actually saw a little net growth but still at the end of the day you probably -- Marty you'd probably still call that flat.
But I think we have some pretty strong plans now that we have that portfolio in-house.
We've seen improvement in sales out of our branches and we've got marketing programs for 2013 that we believe will deliver growth in that portfolio.
And we'll have to demonstrate that to you but we are encouraged by the early signs we're seeing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly I just wanted to hit on what's happening with the HARP what is causing only 20% penetration of those refinances as you've gone through this year? What's the critical thing that you -- you had a year to go and refi.
What's really been holding the customers back from coming in and being able to get those loans and what will change that as we move forward? And that's it.
Well I mean Marty I would tell you it's a great question.
It's a question we ask ourselves often.
And when you look at the programs the rates the rate and terms have been very attractive if you're one of these customers who are eligible for this program.
Anecdotally what we hear back from customers is some customers still are -- are still not as knowledgeable about the program as we'd like them to be.
So we're trying to increase our level of customer communication and customer education about it.
We also know that a number of customers who may be transitioning from the home they're in maybe to another home will not participate if they're going to refinance.
So -- and if you look at all of the anecdotal comments you hear from customers it causes us to believe that there's still a potential upside of more volume.
I do think the underwriting process for mortgages is a very rigorous process right now.
And so unless it provides a tremendous amount of benefit people are probably somewhat reluctant.
But we think once we explain the benefits of refinancing and what it can do for these families from a cash flow standpoint we've been very successful in underwriting a number of these.
We continue to build capacity to do this and as I think others around the country are as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> So do you think just that this last year has been kind of a passive because of the capacity issue just taking what they came into the door now what you're going to do is take on more of an active educational process proactively by going out to the customer and encouraging them to come in that way? That would certainly be true for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys share with us if you assume your SIFI buffer is going to be 25 basis points maybe it's slightly higher let's assume for a moment for the purpose of this question it is 25 basis points and you're required to carry Tier 1 common at 7.25% what level above that are you going to be comfortable in carrying in terms of your capital? Well Gerard I'm not so sure of the -- that the SIFI buffer is the ultimate driver there.
I think there are other things that we need to think through and that is one of the biggest one is OCI and how that's going to be treated.
You still have buffers related to operational risk and other elements if you want to consider the whole capital plan.
And so we've kind of mentioned over time that we thought the capital kind of settles out in that 8 8.5 Tier 1 common range.
I will tell you though it's still up for debate.
We have a lot of discussion that's going on even as we speak relative to things like OCI the send bucket for deferred tax assets and mortgage servicing rights and the like but as we kind of cut through all that we still see as of right now somewhere in that 8 8.5 range as being probably where it settles out.
And we reserve the right to be wrong on that but that's our best guess now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you look at your securities and cash as a percentage of total assets today it's about 27%.
Where do you see that ratio needing to go to get to peak profitability for you guys and how long do you think it'll take to get there? You asked the question of the day.
That is something we constantly look at.
Honestly we'd love to take a percentage of our securities book and deploy that in loans if we can get properly priced properly structured loan growth.
I think historically if you look at percentages of earning assets for securities book you generally have been in that 15% to 18% range.
We understand and acknowledge we're way above that.
I think most people are carrying more securities than they would like to today.
If we can get some uncertainties taken care of in the economy whether it'd be the cliff the debt the uncertainties in Asia and Europe and get some confidence in the marketplace we could see some loan demand which we have the liquidity to shift into that really quickly.
So I think working that down to that range I just mentioned is what we want to do over time.
It'll take us a while.
It's hard to tell you how quickly we can get that deployed.
But it is the reason that we have started to take more credit risks in the investment portfolio which is historically and predominantly established to cover liquidity.
But we believe we had a 78% loan-to-deposit ratio we have plenty of liquidity and we don't have a lot of long-term debt.
But we think that we can take some extra credit risk in that investment portfolio to give us somewhat of a proxy for credit that we've put on the loan book.
That being said we're in the relationship business.
We're in the business of making loans to people and businesses and that's what we want to continue to work on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Recognizing that is the primary focus here is growing the loan book of course.
Would you consider paying down some of that high-cost long-term debt that you have on the books and then just reducing that securities portfolio? So you would almost shrink your balance sheet to increase the profitability of the company.
Well we talked earlier about liability management.
You saw us do some of that this past year.
We have about $750 million worth of debt maturing all-in this year.
I think $250 million of that is at the holding company and $500 million is in the bank.
We've already had that considered in our liquidity planning which we start 2 years out.
But we're looking for opportunities to reduce our all-in funding cost in particular our long-term debt costs which today is about right at 5% after considering swaps.
And so you clearly are hitting on something that we look at all the time in terms of how we might take that out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my final question is on the securities portfolio.
What's the duration the average duration of the portfolio? And then what is the duration of the securities that you put on in the fourth quarter into that portfolio? Yes if I look at the overall portfolio what changes is obviously prepayment speeds keep moving around.
But today we're probably 2 and 3.25 years roughly.
If you look at what we've put on in the fourth quarter that's probably I don't know 3 years maybe.
Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer Demba of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on your Corporate Banking effort.
I'm just wondering if you could Grayson just discuss kind of the progress you've made in the last couple of quarters and the growth you're expecting from that effort over the next 1 or 2 years.
On Corporate Banking business.
Jennifer when you look at our commercial line of business really most of our growth over the last year has really come from the upper end of what we would call middle market and what is generally referred to as Corporate Banking.
Our Corporate Banking efforts are not that large.
And the way we sort of have our business dissected is in our small business our business and community banking approach we go up to about $20 million in sales.
In our commercial middle market C&amp;I we'll go anywhere from that $20 million up to as much as $2 billion in sales.
So we're really focused on that core middle market space.
That being said most of the growth over the last year has come in the upper end of that with smaller companies smaller businesses really behaving more like the consumer still no more deleveraging and carrying larger amounts of cash reserves.
We are seeing a little bit broader demand than we've seen before.
From a strategy standpoint we've tried to take certain industries that we're specializing in like asset-based lending health care transportation energy and also franchised restaurant.
And we've tried to focus on them.
Those industries we've recruited some really strong bankers in those industries and we've used those bankers even though they may be located in one market or another.
We've used them franchise-wide across all of our markets and have generated what I think is some pretty good strong growth in our commercial book of business.
Where we've seen the decline really has been in owner-occupied real estate has continued to decline throughout the year.
But that's not surprising because most of that product is in the lower half of the middle-market space and in the business and community banking space.
The other side is investor commercial real estate that portfolio had so many stressed loans in it and it allowed that -- those stressed loans have had to be resolved in the course of business one way or the other.
And so you've seen that derisking activity.
But as I mentioned earlier in the call our production has increased on that segment.
And when you look at the overall commercial business I would again say we probably had the best December we've seen in a long time.
And going into January we feel pretty encouraged by it.
We'll hold up through the year.
Again the economy being what it is we're continuing to see incremental improvement in the economy and we hope that there's more certainty around a lot of fiscal issues and our customers could get back to investing in their businesses.
And I think we'll benefit from that if that occurs.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered but just one quick question I guess to hit on the mortgage subject again.
Just curious as to what the new recommendations for QRM mortgages coming out recently.
How did that affect your outlook for mortgage production or did it affect at all your desire to keep -- to put the 15-year mortgages on your balance sheet? Just curious as to how you're thinking about that new item for the industry? We've had our mortgage team going through all of those rules and guidelines and a lot of the rules will have little to no impact on us.
We think that there will be some adjustments to our business model that we're doing today but they're relatively small.
And so our mortgage team at this juncture is not predicting a big impact of those rule changes on our business.
But our mortgage business has been fairly simple for a long time.
We're not doing a lot of the things that would have impacted that business very strongly.
But the -- so I think that at the end of the day the guidance was good glad we got the guidance.
We'll adhere to it and we think we'll adjust our business model and move forward without a lot of barriers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then for my follow-up I'd like to -- I'm not going to let Barb get away totally scot-free.
I'm just Barb just curious in terms of you saw a very nice decline in nonperforming loan additions this quarter.
How are you thinking about that trend into 2013 within your guidance of continued improvement in overall asset quality metrics? Yes even at the 350 level I would say that we're in that normal range the higher end of the normal band.
I do see that continuing to trend down though and I would say the place for you to look at is our criticized and classified.
Clearly as those numbers come down movements and [indiscernible] will follow.
Your final question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions on loans.
In terms of loan demand can you -- I'm sorry if you already mentioned it would you discuss what you saw in terms of line utilization during the quarter where you see that trending? Line utilization is relatively flat.
It was down ever so slightly.
We really haven't seen much movement in that line utilization in the last few months in that 43% utilization range approximately.
We've obviously in our commitments increased substantially but line utilization really hasn't moved much at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in terms of borrower confidence I know we've heard some of the other Southeast-based banks indicate that they're seeing a pretty good pickup in confidence post-election and the near-term resolution of the cliff for now.
So are you seeing some improved activity amid your borrower base? I think overall we see the confidence is incrementally better but it's a little mixed.
I would use the word mixed.
I think clearly our larger customers are more confident than our smaller customers are today.
I do think that I'm not sure how many cliffs we have but getting past what we did recently really helped the overall confidence level.
I think if we continue to make positive progress on the fiscal side that corporations will become more confident.
Because I would tell you business people in business they want a more confident environment.
I think they're poised ready for a better economy to start executing on their plans.
But right now I would say it's better but not -- the movement has been incremental not a big huge swing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly in terms of your loan book can you discuss where you're seeing the new money yields come in on your new loan originations by type? I just wanted to get an idea of what the competitive pressure that you're seeing there in your pricing style? Yes I mean I'll make a few comments and then I'll ask Barb to speak on it as well.
But clearly competition for lending opportunities has increased and so I would characterize the kind of spreads we're seeing on transactions today still historically better than what we've seen in the past but not as high as they were a few quarters ago.
So I think pricing is starting to tighten a little bit but still at levels that we would say are better than what we've historically seen.
Probably the most tightening has been on the commercial real estate portfolio where those spreads have really gotten wide right after we really got into the crisis and those while they're still relatively high they're tighter than they were.
And Barb if you want to add to that? Yes.
We look at middle market spreads in general going back even as far back as 2004.
And where we are today they're generally pretty flat.
They went up clearly during the crux of the recession back in 2010.
They were up as Grayson said they've come back up they've tightened.
Again all-in if you look at some of our individual businesses things like business and community banking clearly that's a much better yield than some of the others.
In our business banking spreads again they were up significantly in '09 and '10 and they've come back in again back to '06 levels generally as we have with fourth quarter.
This concludes the allotted time for today's question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Hall for any closing remarks.
Listen I appreciate everyone's time a lot of good questions and hopefully you've got the answers you need.
As I said at the first of the call we appreciate your time and respect your time so with that we'll stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our first quarter earnings call.
Our presenters today are Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner along with other senior members of our management team.
As part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Also let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information but rather are related to future operations strategies financial results or other developments.
Those statements are based on general assumptions and are subject to various risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the views beliefs and projections expressed in such statements.
Additional information regarding these factors can be found on our forward-looking statements that is located in the Appendix of the presentation.
With that said I will turn it over to Grayson.
Thank you and good morning and welcome to Regions First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
We certainly appreciate your participation and respect your time.
We'll keep our comments concise and move promptly to your questions.
Regions continues to make substantial progress moving forward with first quarter 2013 earnings reaching the highest quarterly level in more than 4 years.
Our results reflect continued execution of our business plans and our focus on capitalizing on our franchise's opportunities.
First quarter 2013 net income available to common shareholders was $327 million or $0.23 per diluted share more than double a year ago and up 25% from prior period.
In addition the year is off to a good start by many other important measures.
Loans on our balance sheet hold steady.
Our net interest margin remains stable.
We're growing our customer base.
Our mortgage business while facing headwinds is performing well.
Our operating expenses are being managed with discipline and rigor and our asset quality continues to incrementally improve.
Let's begin with a closer look at the balance sheet.
We remain on track absent any unknown economic shocks to achieve a low-single-digit loan growth this year.
As loans outstanding steadied from first to fourth -- first quarter -- fourth to first quarter period in and overall new loan production increased 8% over last year.
This new loan production helped offset first quarter declines in portfolio outstandings such as Investor Real Estate and home equity.
The pace of decline in Investor Real Estate portfolio has moderated to the lowest level in 3 years.
As our pace of derisking slows especially in the second half of 2013 we expect total loans outstanding to grow incrementally marking a very important shift for our company.
Turning to deposits we grew checking accounts in the first quarter.
This is the first time in over 2 years that we have experienced a net increase in core checking accounts since shifting our strategy from free checking to fee-eligible pricing.
We believe this turnaround demonstrates Regions' commitment to customer service our emphasis on providing products and services that meet customer needs and preferences and at a fair price.
Additionally we continue to improve our deposit mix and further lowered average funding costs fourth to first quarter.
Over the past 3 years we have reduced our overall deposit cost by 82 basis points.
So let's discuss revenue for just a moment.
Mortgage banking remained a significant contributor to fee-based income and not surprisingly dipped below fourth quarter's levels.
The quarter-over-quarter decline reflects seasonality less robust market activity and our decision to retain 15-year fixed-rate mortgages on our balance sheet.
The HARP 2 program continues to be a significant contributor to overall mortgage production at about 20% of our volume.
It is important to note that approximately 80% of Regions' mortgage customers eligible for HARP 2 have yet to refinance.
We are pleased with the recent announcement regarding the 2-year extension of this program we have a comprehensive outreach program underway to capture these opportunities and to assist our customers and their needs.
We did experience a noticeable but favorable shift in mortgage applications this quarter.
New home purchases now account for almost 50% of the applications as compared to 35% just last quarter.
According to the National Association of Realtors the supply of homes on the market has returned to pre-housing pricing levels and is at a 4-month supply.
Further positive evidence that the housing market is recovering.
So let's turn our focus to expenses.
In the first quarter operating expenses excluding special items in the fourth quarter declined slightly and are on track to meet our expectations for a lower full year operating cost versus 2012.
The decline in the first quarter is particularly encouraging given the seasonal increase in favorable related tax expense.
And additionally in the first quarter we continued to invest in technology that benefits our productivity and efficiency.
The investment is consistent with our commitment to provide new innovative services and delivery options that our customers want and need.
In 2012 we invested in updating branch systems and platforms.
This year we're concentrating on upgrading our alternative delivery channels.
For example here in the first quarter we enhanced our transaction capabilities at most of our ATMs.
As a result of these advances in technology over 90% of the transactions traditionally conducted through a branch teller can now be completed at a Regions ATM.
Mobile banking continues to be a rapid growth channel and a critical area of focus.
Earlier this month we launched a number of product enhancements that enable our customers to more fully bank with us by using their mobile phone.
Moving on to asset quality.
Trends were broadly positive in the first quarter.
As expected nonperforming assets continue to improve reflecting ongoing declines in both nonperforming loans and nonperforming loan migration.
We remain confident that the pace of asset quality improvement will continue in 2013.
Finally we are pleased with our 2013 CCAR results and you will soon see us taking actions to execute the plan including implementation of our announced stock repurchase program.
I'll now turn the call over to David for a more in-depth discussion of first quarter financial trends.
Afterwards I'll return for a few closing comments before taking questions.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Since Grayson has already provided a high-level overview I'm going to jump right into the details.
So let's start with Slide 3 on the balance sheet.
At the end of the first quarter total loan balances remained steady from the prior quarter.
Our commercial and industrial and indirect auto loan portfolios continue to produce solid results.
In addition we experienced a slower pace of decline in the Investor Real Estate portfolio.
The Investor Real Estate portfolio declined 5% linked quarter compared to the previous quarter's decline of 11%.
At quarter end Investor Real Estate ending balances stood at $7.3 billion down $2.8 billion from 1 year ago.
Overall balances in the Investor Real Estate portfolio may fluctuate depending on productivity levels derisking and payoff activity.
We estimate that we have approximately $800 million of derisking remaining in the portfolio a portion of which will be offset by new production.
And just to remind you that compares to about $1 billion that we've mentioned to you before.
In fact new production in the Investor Real Estate portfolio has begun to pick up as we see more opportunities to make loans to qualify borrowers consistent with our risk appetite.
We experienced another quarter of solid growth in our commercial and industrial loan portfolio.
Average loans in this portfolio grew 2% versus the prior quarter and total new and renewed production increased 3% over the prior year.
During the first quarter we saw a broadening of our commercial loan activity across a well-diversified base of industries and geographies.
Consequently overall business loans increased $268 million linked quarter.
Notably line utilization increased 140 basis points to 44.8% from the end of the prior quarter and commitments are up 12% from the prior year.
Looking at consumer lending this portfolio decreased just over 1% linked quarter as consumer deleveraging continued.
As a reminder during the fourth quarter we began the process of retaining our 15-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages.
This strategy supports our overall efforts to grow the balance sheet and effectively manage our exposure to interest rate risk.
This resulted in approximately $180 million of additional loans held on the balance sheet in the first quarter.
Declines in our total home equity portfolio which includes lines and loans continue as customers take advantage of opportunities to refinance.
However we are encouraged by the results at our home equity loan portfolio as loan production increased 60% over the prior year primarily due to the introduction of a fixed-rate loan product during the third quarter of 2012.
Growth in this product is expected to continue to reduce the pace of decline in our home equity portfolio.
Indirect auto loans increased 6% quarter-over-quarter and total production is up 16% as we continued to expand our dealer's network.
At quarter end we had approximately 2 000 dealers and plan to add an additional 300 dealers by the end of the year.
Although credit card balances were down this quarter our production of new accounts was 10% higher than the prior year first quarter.
Currently our penetration rate is approximately 12% of our households and we expect this to increase to more than 20% over time.
We have planned a comprehensive marketing campaign for credit cards throughout 2013 to help facilitate this growth.
We were pleased with the progress we made in the first quarter in holding our loan steady and we expect to see growth in loan production and anticipate that production will outpace attrition by the second half of 2013.
And based on what we know now we continue to project loan growth in the low-single digits for 2013.
And now let's move on to the liability side of the balance sheet.
Deposit mix and cost continue to improve in the first quarter.
Total average low-cost deposits increased $375 million linked quarter and time deposits fell to just 14% of total average deposits.
This positive repricing and mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining 4 basis points down to 18 basis points for the quarter.
Now we have an additional $5.6 billion of CDs maturing in 2013  at an average rate of 93 basis points.
Now this compares to our current average going on rates for new CDs of approximately 25 basis points.
Further our overall total funding cost improved to 45 basis points a decrease of 86 basis points over the last 3 years.
So let's take a look at how all of this has impacted our net interest income.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $811 million down 2% linked quarter.
And this decline was driven in part by a fewer number of days in the quarter as well as a decline in earning assets.
Total loan yields were down 7 basis points linked quarter to 4.14%.
This was primarily related to the impact of a continued low-rate environment on the reinvestment rates of higher fixed-rate loans that are paying off.
The resulting net interest margin was 3.13% up 3 basis points linked quarter.
Again this was driven by a reduced day count which really resulted in 2 basis points of the benefit and our debt management activities last quarter.
These activities and the decline in deposit cost served to offset the reduction on earning asset yields which is largely attributable to the low-rate environment.
Now we continue to expect our margins to remain relatively stable throughout 2013 with potential upside if rates rise.
Let's take a look at non-interest revenue.
First quarter non-interest revenue declined 7% linked quarter primarily related to a decline in mortgage and service charges income.
As expected mortgage banking revenue was down in the first quarter but well above historical levels.
And while 2012 was a record year we still anticipate 2013 to yield solid results.
As mentioned earlier we started retaining 15-year mortgages on our balance sheet which will impact mortgage income.
Now you can find a breakout of mortgage revenue on Page 9 in the supplement to our press release.
Mortgage loan production was $1.8 billion an increase of 13% over the prior year.
And mortgage revenue continues to be driven by HARP 2 as approximately 40% of all HARP mortgage applications submitted were from non-Regions customers.
In addition at the end of the quarter we purchased servicing rights on approximately $3 billion of mortgage loans which will help offset some of the mortgage income decline going forward.
Service charges during the quarter were impacted by lower NSF fees primarily related to seasonality.
As Grayson mentioned we experienced an increase in net checking accounts as well as our number of households which will serve to drive future service charges.
Also our Now Banking suite of products continue to grow.
The number of households using these products has more than tripled over the last year.
Almost 60% of these customers are new Regions customers providing us with additional cross-sell opportunities.
Let's take a look at expenses on the next slide.
Non-interest expenses totaled $842 million.
And excluding adjustments in the prior quarter this resulted in a decline of 1% linked quarter.
And during the quarter we experienced seasonal increases in salaries and benefits primarily related to an increase in payroll taxes.
Professional and legal expenses return to a more normalized level due to the prior quarter benefit of $20 million and reduced legal reserves that we previously mentioned to you.
We continue to expect that 2013 expenses will be lower than those in 2012 illustrating our commitment to prudent expense management and the generation of positive operating leverage.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 26% which included a $9 million reduction in tax reserves as well as a $4 million benefit to the valuation allowance.
Excluding these items our tax rate would have been closer to 29% which is in line with our more normalized rate.
Let's move on to asset quality.
We continue to make progress with respect to asset quality.
The provision for loan losses was $10 million or $170 million less than net charge-offs.
Total net charge-offs were flat linked quarter and net charge offs as a percentage of average loans was again below 1%.
Both nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets declined linked quarter 6% and 7% respectively.
In addition delinquencies also declined 10% fourth to first quarter.
Notably criticized and classified loans which is one of the best and earliest indicators of asset quality continue to decline with commercial and Investor Real Estate criticized loans down 9% from the fourth quarter.
Our coverage ratios remain solid.
At quarter end our loan loss allowance to nonperforming loans stood at 110%.
Meanwhile our loan loss allowance loans remained solid at 2.37% at the end of the first quarter.
Based on what we know today we expect continued improvement in asset quality going forward.
Let's take a look at capital and liquidity.
As Grayson mentioned we were pleased with our overall CCAR results and the Federal Reserve having no objections to our capital management plan which we expect to implement soon.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 12.3% and our estimated Tier 1 common ratio was 11.2%.
Now based on our interpretation of Basel III we expect our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio will be approximately 9.1%.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remained solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 79%.
And lastly based on our understanding of the new amendments Regions remains well positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
So overall this quarter's results are solid and demonstrate the substantial progress we are making and we look forward to continuing to build our momentum.
With that I'll turn it back over to Grayson for his closing remarks.
Thank you David.
Well in conclusion Regions is moving forward and gaining momentum.
We are executing our business plans.
We're capitalizing on our franchise's opportunities.
We're actively managing our strong capital base and incrementally improving profitability quarter-to-quarter.
Our first quarter results demonstrates progress we're making on several important fronts and these include: Prudently and profitably expanding our loan application pipelines; expanding and deepening our customer relationships; lowering our overall funding costs; continuing to stabilize our net interest margin while at the same time continuing to reduce our overall risk profile while adhering to disciplined expense management.
We are committed to further progress in 2013 as we continue to prudently work towards maximizing Regions franchise value.
I'll turn the meeting back over to List for the instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you Grayson.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning at the top of the hour I would like to ask each caller to please limit yourself to 1 primary question and 1 related follow-up question.
Now let's open up the line.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Obviously you've had some real nice C&amp;I loan growth and we've just heard from some other banks of pricing pressure and some terms being given.
Maybe you can just comment a little bit on the rates that you're seeing and the underlying asset quality to what you're adding? Yes.
Matt clearly it's a pretty competitive marketplace today and we are seeing pricing pressure within the marketplace.
I would tell you that looking at the data it would seem to indicate that while the pressure's there we're still holding spread margins slightly above historical rates.
But it does appear that spreads continue to very slowly move downward.
But I would say our numbers seem to indicate holding fairly steady with a bias on the downside.
But we continue to feel like -- that in our marketplaces and in the segments we're choosing to compete that we are still able to hold pricing at a pretty favorable point.
In addition our overall underwriting and structure which includes pricing we continue to believe that we are prudently adding to our balance sheet.
And I'll ask Barb Godin Barb's with us to sort of give you a little bit of color on what we're seeing coming on to the balance sheet.
Thank you Grayson.
Yes what we're seeing right now very happy with the asset quality that's going on the book you have to risk some pressure on structures the pressure on price.
But all in it's clearly within our risk appetite.
In fact below our risk appetite levels right now.
So we anticipate that that book will perform well both now and in the future.
Research Division</strong> And then credit quality overall is obviously very good again this quarter.
But anything within the C&amp;I book that caused the jump linked quarter in charge-offs.
I don't know if it's seasonal or just some lumpiness there but just looking at the charge-off dollars in C&amp;I went up from $17 million to $58 million down a little bit year-over-year but anything that you'd highlight there? Yes.
Matt it's Barb Godin again.
We have 3 C&amp;I credits -- large credits total of $39 million.
We had a reserve against them of $32 million.
And again that caused a little bit of the bump in the release that we saw.
But again no trend.
It's at the point right now that we're going to see some bumpiness as we move out of the back end of the cycle.
Yes.
I mean I think that C&amp;I charge-offs by their nature always is going to be somewhat uneven.
And we saw some unevenness this quarter but still overall asset quality trends continue to be in the right direction.
Your next question comes the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On that competition question do you actually have the average new money yields that you're seeing by product perhaps in C&amp;I and in CRE in terms of what you're bringing on the balance sheet right now? John let me ask John Asbury very quickly to speak to that issue.
John runs our Business Services group and he can speak more specifically to those spreads and yields.
Yes.
Thanks Grayson.
Obviously it depends upon the exact nature of the client with the larger clients who are among the most creditworthy commanding the best pricing so you get into mix issues.
I would say typically what you'll see in terms of going on spreads to LIBOR in the middle market is going to be something in the neighborhood of say LIBOR plus 225 to maybe 250; it kind of varies.
If you look at the real estate world it's a little higher.
It's probably within commercial real estate average pricing to 60 to 75 over LIBOR on those lines.
And you'll see variation; you're up and down again depending upon creditworthiness of the client and size.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of your -- the longer-term loan loss reserve level I mean you said you're continuing to see some opportunity there to pull back on the reserve.
I just want to get your thoughts on where the reserve level could end up leveling out.
I know it's at around 240 basis points of loans right now so I want to see where that could go to.
Yes.
John this is David.
We have talked historically that we've got the reserve pending.
There are some changes in accounting that are coming.
So ignoring those for the time being that our reserves would be in that 1.50% to 2% range.
And I know that's a fairly wide margin and as we get clarity on how things are shaking out we will refine that.
The question is the time period on when that -- we'll get to that reserve level and is really based off obviously charge-offs and what's going on the books.
And we're seeing continued improvement in all of our credit metrics.
You heard about the 3 credits in C&amp;I.
So our charge would have been lower.
But I think going forward that we would be -- we expected to be in sub-2% range.
But the timing of that we just can't be as clear.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin of Citi.
Research Division</strong> If the Basel rules are adopted as proposed and you have to mark-to-market the securities portfolio for changes in rates how much of a capital buffer do you think you'll need for the impact of OCI volatility on regulatory capital? Yes.
Josh we continue to look at that in terms of our modeling.
In just rough numbers we would be in the 25 to 50 basis points of probably additional capital that we would have to keep to soften any change in market changes because of the rapid change that could occur there.
Obviously we're hopeful that certain things get carved out the final rules.
But right now as is that's what the capital impact would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you heard of anything from the CFPB regarding payday lending that might impact any of your businesses? We obviously -- we have a short-term lending product that we offer today.
And we've been in close communication with the CFPB.
This juncture has not many clarification of our guidance come out on this types of products.
We're working with them daily to understand sort of what the direction will be and we'll adjust accordingly.
We continue to adjust the products that we offer to be more customer friendly and continue to try to meet customer needs in that particular part of the segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaston Ceron of MorningStar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig in to the expense line a little bit more.
I know you talked about this during your prepared remarks but I'm wondering if you could give a little more color on the other -- especially the other expense line and how much room do you have to bring that down permanently lower from these levels? I mean I know you said you expect 2013 expenses to be -- to come under 2012.
But I'm just trying to -- as you continue to move to improve operations or just trying to get a handle on what the normalized level is going to look like? Yes.
Gaston we've obviously given guidance on total expenses.
As you get down into a more granular level it gets a little more difficult.
If you look at those other expense categories in particular what you saw in there were OREO and held-for-sale expenses we're seeing some gains on disposition of assets that are in those numbers that have kept those pretty low.
Of course our held-for-sale and OREO balances together are less than about $200 million today.
And I'll you from OREO standpoint that's below historically where we've been.
So we see controlling that going forward as being really important to that other expense line item.
We kind of like to think about our expenses in terms of the top 3: Salaries and benefits number 1; occupancy number 2; furniture and equipment expense number 3.
And so making sure we focus on ensuring we have the right number of talented people working for us is something we look at.
We continue to make investments in talent we'll do that going forward.
We've looked at our infrastructure.
In terms of branching we've reduced branches more since 2007 than any other bank about 16%.
But nonetheless we continue to look at branch locations and we had some consolidation last year of branches as we did the year before and I'm sure we'll have some this year.
And we'll have investments in new branches and new formats.
So there's really no one big rock that you can look at in terms of expense reduction.
That's why we don't come up -- we haven't developed a branded expense initiative.
It is cultural it is built into every expense line item that we have to make sure that we're prudent with regards to expenses.
So I would look at those 4 5 things that I pointed to in terms of understanding the direction of where our expenses may go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry just a very quick follow-up on what you just said -- regarding branches I mean is there any sort of target for a kind of year-end level or anything like that or no? And just kind of see how it develops? No.
Gaston we continue to be very disciplined and rigorous around looking at our branches in terms of branch activity in terms of transaction counts in terms of new accounts open as well as looking at the overall staffing in those branches.
We as David said we reduced our number of branch outlets over the past 3 years -- last few years approximately 16%.
We continue to have fairly -- we still continue to make adjustments to those number of branches and that develops over the course of the year as our process unfolds.
But you should not anticipate any large swings in our number of branches.
But we make -- we're making course corrections as we see the opportunities and we'll do that every year and we'll continue to do it.
The next question comes from Keith Murray of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Do you mind touching on duration extension risk? And just kind of framing where you guys think you are now versus let's say 12 months ago? I know you've reshaped the portfolio mix a little bit here.
Yes.
If you look at our investment portfolio we have extended duration slightly it's just over 3 years.
We've done a couple of things there though we have some new asset classes in the investment portfolio some new issue CMBS some corporates that we didn't have that we think protects us a little bit on extension risks.
But you really have to look at our balance sheet in total and isolating it in any one spot can be detrimental.
We are still asset sensitive as you see -- as you will see in our disclosures.
You saw it in our 10-K you'll see it in our 10-Q and we continue to be that way which is why we're to the extent we do have an increase in rates you should see a fairly sizable improvement in our net interest income and the resulting margin.
I think when you look at the loan portfolio you see we put 15-year mortgages on our balance sheet but when you look at the absolute of level that in relationship with the size of our portfolio it's fairly modest.
The other issue is if you look at our commercial lending if you look at small business lending the lower end of middle market a lot of that is term-based lending with an amortizing loan.
But when you -- the further up you go in that market the less of that you see.
And today on a dollars basis still 3/4 of our business and commercial portfolio is variable rate priced.
And so from a duration standpoint we still think on the loan portfolio we're holding ourselves in a pretty good position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that you purchased some mortgage servicing assets in the quarter.
Just talk about your appetite there and do you view that as a little bit of a rate hedge as well? We do view it somewhat of a rate hedge but also as an NIR opportunity to generate some additional revenues for the company.
When you look at it our servicing portfolio a little over $40 billion and adding $3 billion to that we think we have the capacity to do that.
Our appetite I would call our appetite limited but still have an appetite for that asset and think it's incrementally favorable to our overall operation.
We think we've got a team that's pretty good at that.
We want to make sure that we don't create any capacity issues with that team but we feel pretty good about where our appetite setting is for that business today.
We're still a relatively small -- a very small player in that space.
Yes.
We're about the 23rd largest servicer roughly which is about 0.44% market share.
So we're really not that large but we are good at it.
And we have our team dedicated to this.
Obviously we went through all the issues and have done a great job and we like the return profile.
You mentioned the rate hedge that's a part of it.
The capacity is part of it too and we have the ability to add some even from where you are today.
And so we'll look opportunistically for those chances to improve that portfolio increase that portfolio.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about what's going on with housing in your region and impact on the NPAs and just delinquencies in general.
I'm hearing that housing is been improving and I wanted to get your take on what's going on as well as opportunities to further accelerate the reduction and exposure to legacy assets there.
Yes.
Betsy I would tell you that we've been fairly aggressive in shedding distressed assets related to homebuilders through the cycle and really have a pretty low exposure to that segment today from a distressed standpoint.
I would tell you what's changed this quarter from last quarter is if you look across our 16-state footprint a quarter ago we saw  signs of housing recovery in a number of markets but not all of them.
I would tell you it's more widespread today.
We're seeing more signs of recovery more broadly across our franchise footprint than we did.
We're seeing inventory levels that are getting back to very low levels and we're seeing homebuilders starting to construct home again -- homes again.
So I would say it's more broad; it's more consistent and we believe that we're in a position to take a very prudent position of opportunity on that -- in the home building space.
I'll ask Barb to sort of talk about the disposition of what distressed assets we still have related to that segment.
Barb? Thank you Grayson.
We don't have as many assets in that asset class as we previously did particularly in the distressed environment.
In total Betsy I look at our OREO balance as an example we only have $133 million of those.
We were able to get -- move those relatively quickly and [indiscernible] some decent pricing.
What we moved in to held-for-sale as a well I mean right now we only have $66 million left in our held-for-sale portfolio.
Majority of that is being turned within a 12-month period.
So we don't see as much coming in the front end either at the held-for-sale or OREO from the Investor Real Estate classes.
We're seeing more in the C&amp;I right now coming in.
And in terms of overall pricing however going back to that comment we are seeing a number of markets across our footprint that have increased in pricing.
South Florida is one example we're even seeing the Atlanta market the Birmingham market.
Some of our major markets have clearly moved in a positive direction.
Research Division</strong> Your NIM is relatively strong compared to peers and there's more resiliency there.
As you look out over the next several quarters would you consider using that to be a little bit more aggressive on pricing and loan growth generation? Betsy we -- our NIM obviously is supported in large part due to our -- the liability side of the balance sheet first and foremost our deposits.
So I had mentioned that we have $5.6 billion from the CDs maturing at a 93 basis point rate going into 25 basis point rate.
As we think about disposition of those assets we've had a program for a long time to evaluate every one of those to get our best execution on disposition.
And it's not just about getting rid of nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets but is what is the best long-term play -- best play for our shareholders.
And where we see opportunities to sell we sell.
When we see opportunities to work out we keep that.
So we do understand that we can get our NPLs down a whole lot quicker if we just pulled them up and sold them but we're not confident that that's the best execution for our shareholders which we why we haven't done it.
And Barb you may want to...
No.
I think you hit the nail on the head.
I mean we do evaluate bottoms up every quarter.
We look at every single loans and look at what the best outcome is for our shareholders.
And that might mean holding those loans a little bit longer.
But having said that if you look at some of our numbers our actual numbers that we keep more than a year in NPL has dropped dramatically.
Again in general we try to turn our nonperforming loan book over in a 12-month period.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question I wanted to ask you about the kind of the other side of net interest income story.
So the NIM stability is certainly helped by a bunch of the mechanisms you mentioned on the deposit side and on the long-term debt footprint.
But the earning asset balances continue to shrink even though it looks like loans have finally in a good way started to stabilize.
So can you help us understand what your outlook is for when you expect earning assets to bottom and within that again against a stable NIM backdrop do you expect NII to grow from here? Yes.
Ken what you're looking at on the earning assets included the putting -- changes in cash and some of the liability management that we've had and we'll continue to see some liability management.
We haven't been specific with those but we still have opportunities on that front.
So earning assets the biggest driver of earning assets stability will be loan growth.
And as we mentioned in our prepared comments we expect that growth to occur in the low-single digits during this year.
The specific timing of that is a little harder because we still are disposing of some of the assets and in particular in our Investor Real Estate portfolio.
But we're encouraged with our increase in production in our loan categories.
And I think that you could see a slowing of the attrition going forward on earning assets.
And as we put more loans on the books that's also going to support a higher overall net interest income.
Obviously we're still a little bit at the mercy of the interest rate environment.
You've seen the 10-year jump around quite a bit in the first quarter.
And so where we are from reinvesting our cash flows off of our investment portfolios is important to us.
It's $500 million a month we have to put to work.
And so being able to give you confidence on NII dollars is a little more difficult but with the loan growth we expect the ability to be able to do that is enhanced.
I think that if you look again trying to say what's different this quarter from last quarter we still see modest demand for credit.
That being said we've seen better diversity of demand.
We're seeing more demand from smaller middle market businesses than we've seen previously.
Again modest but better diversity of demand.
Still strong demand in the upper end of C&amp;I but I would tell you that the mix of demand we're getting today we consider to be an encouraging sign.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And my second question just relates to operating leverage.
We all hear your comments loud and clear about continuing to move expenses lower and they certainly are on a great path on a year-over-year basis so far.
But from an efficiency ratio perspective there's always a little bit of seasonality to think about but how do we understand how the interplay between that cost control you mention and then the revenue growth that you expect translate into the potential to improve the efficiency ratio? Well I'll speak and I'll let David add to that his comments.
But when you think about efficiency clearly in a low-rate slow growth environment expense management just has to be foundational in the way we operate the business.
And we're going to continue to focus on expenses very rigorously.
But if you look at the efficiency ratio the 2 sides of that coin one is expense the other is revenue.
And quite frankly when you break our numbers down more granularly the revenue side of that equation is probably one we need to work on more.
The expense side though we continue to focus on and we still believe that that will come down.
First quarter is always a challenging quarter for a number of seasonal issues and a number of day count issues.
But we still see the opportunity to improve that ratio going forward with a balanced approach on both sides of that calculation.
Yes.
I will tell you Ken that the efficiency ratio call it 64% change from a seasonality standpoint has a couple of points in there that work against us in this first quarter.
Even with that we would like to get our efficiency ratio down into the high-50s.
And we think in time we can get there perhaps needing a little bit of a rate pickup to get there.
But while we wait for that our focus is on improving both NII and NIR.
Integrations point revenue is the biggest driver of improvement.
So as you think through NII growing loans and having more of our balance sheet more of our earning assets and loans versus security.
So today we have 25% of our earning assets that are investment securities and that number should be in the 18% range just round numbers.
So getting loan growth and repositioning there is really important to us.
We continue to look on the right side of the balance sheet in terms of liability management to help us on interest expense.
And then we're also looking at growing our households and we mentioned that in our prepared comments because it's important to us to continue to add in particular checking account households to us because it brings us a source of non-interest revenue.
And so we think we can continue to grow NIR through the development of new products and services.
I mentioned the Now Banking product where we've tripled our customers over the past year have been a great source of non-interest revenue for us.
So continuing to understand what our customers need and want and developing products and services that meet those needs and therefore growing our total revenue will be the key to us improving that efficiency ratio and our commitment to generating positive operating leverage.
So it's not just an expense play for us it's all about making sure that we can generate positive operating leverage in the long run.
Your next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification on the question that Ken had asked.
So given the outlook for efficiency and some of the expense headwinds that you faced in the first quarter can we expect to actually see expenses continue to fall from the current level? We end up -- our commitment has been really kind of year-over-year.
The first quarter had some benefits in it relative to held-for-sale and OREO expenses.
We had some gains in that quarter.
We're continuing to work on those expenses to get them down even further from the first quarter.
But right now our guidance to you is really a year-over-year basis is as far as we've committed thus far.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the Investor Real Estate.
I know you noted that productions improved and there is something like $800 million of derisking left versus $1 billion left so implying that there's still some core runoff in the portfolio.
I know you made some positive comments about demand potentially picking up.
So is there -- are you starting to see enough demand on the other side that you could actually foresee this portfolio starting to grow at some point this year? We have -- it is very close.
I don't know that we can claim victory just yet on it.
We're down slightly in the first quarter about $400 million.
Production is up pipelines we're encouraged with but we still have that $800 million.
The timing of how that gets dealt with is what's harder to tell.
Again we've looked at -- in giving guidance on what the year will look like but we are very close to where that attrition stops in Investor Real Estate.
We believe you will see that in the second half of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a very quick follow-up on the bank of that.
Given where we are on the cycle right now are you expanding your geographic reach in any of your businesses whether it's in middle market or large corporate C&amp;I or in the commercial real estate business? No.
We're staying -- we are trying to continue to grow our business within our footprint and within the businesses that we compete today.
But we have not expanded beyond our footprint.
And we have not -- we've not expanded beyond the products we offer today.
We don't see doing that at the moment.
Your next question comes from Erika Panela of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a follow-up on your margin outlook David.
In terms of the debt management actions that you did this quarter could you tell us what specifically they are how much is left in terms of debt management actions and whether or not what's left is embedded in your guidance for NIM stability? Let me answer in a little different order Erika.
First I want to be careful about making any implication of any particular debt instrument that we might deal with.
So I have multiple lawyers around me to make sure we don't commit to that.
But I think as you look at our balance sheet and you think about where we are from a liquidity standpoint that doing some liability management make sense for us.
We have had some of that liability management that you've seen that has been baked into our analysis of NIMs since the beginning of the year.
There are additional pieces that we have not disclosed that I don't want to get in again to the specifics that have not been baked in to our overall margin guidance.
So there are potential opportunities to pick up some incremental lift.
I would tell you it's not a tremendous amount of lift but there is some positive upside that could be there if in fact we execute? Research Division</strong> Got it.
And to follow-up again this is probably re-asking Ken Usdin's question.
But given that outlook should -- is it fair to expect that earning asset growth will lag loan growth in the back half of the year? Earning asset growth also gets driven by how we use some of our cash and liability management.
So it's harder to compare earning asset changes to loan growth.
I think the better way to look at it is to think of what the composition of those earning assets will be in the back half of the year versus where they have been which is obviously more deployment in the loan book than in the securities book as being a big driver.
As we think about overall NIM we're sitting here at a 3.13%.
I mentioned in my prepared comments that 2 of those points are related to day count so you need to level set there.
And we're telling you right now that our margin is relatively stable looking out.
If in fact we can execute on -- and it's right to do to execute on some additional liability management initiatives then we might have some incremental lift from there.
But again caution you on -- that wouldn't be a tremendous lift but it would be incremental.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to just dive in a little bit more to the statement of C&amp;I broad across geographies and businesses just to make sure we get a feel for what traction you're seeing in the Southeast region and where is that real strength is coming from? Well Marty as you have -- as you're well aware I mean the Southeast has probably been one of the tougher markets to operate in over the last 3 or 4 years.
And I would -- my comment was that what's changed over the last quarter for us is that we're seeing broader demand from a physical geography standpoint.
We divide up our franchise into a number of different markets and more of those markets are growing loans this quarter than were last quarter.
In addition we also divide our customer base up into segments.
And I would tell you for the last several quarters for example in commercial and industrial lending we've seen most of that demand for credit in the upper end of that market segment is purely from a segmentation standpoint.
This quarter we're seeing more demand in the lower and middle part of that segment which is an encouraging sign of our recovery.
I do think that we're seeing that broadness both on a segmentation basis and on a geography basis.
Clearly some of the strongest geographies in our business in our footprint have clearly been in Texas Louisiana markets.
And for a while we're to a large degree limited to some of those markets but now it's much more broad.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then David I want to talk a little bit more we kind of had this conversation last year at this time about the seasonal impacts.
There's probably $0.02 to $0.03 of giveback if you look at taxes and security gains and some of the OREO gains that you wouldn't think of as sustainable.
But then there is also the FICA and option expenses the fees on the service charges of deposits and the day count in NII.
Could you look at those 2 things as being kind of generally evenhanded in the sense of the givebacks versus the benefit you get from the benefit you get from the seasonality? Marty I'd tell you and staying fairly broad that we had obviously mentioned our income tax numbers the $9 million and the $4 million.
So you need to think about that in terms of -- and that's tax right? So that's $0.01 there.
You can look at the traction of our quarter-to-quarter in terms of payroll taxes that we would have some pickup there but we had some favorable held-for-sale and OREO cost too.
So it's harder to give you without giving you specific guidance for the next quarter which I'm not going to do but we're trying to -- if you take your $0.23 and start carving out those one-offs that we mentioned we're trying to give you some guidance as to what would not repeat in the subsequent quarters.
But I think you hit the specific ones that you should look at.
LLC Research Division</strong> It just seemed to me that there's about as much opportunity in the seasonality as in some of the givebacks and that's all I was trying to think of generally not trying to forecast the next quarter but just look at the balance between those 2 items.
Good comment.
Good comment.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us the size of the interest rate swap portfolio and the current impact of the net interest margin? Craig I don't have that specifically.
Obviously all that's baked into the overall guidance that I gave you.
But I don't have the pieces of that impact and maturities but we can get that to you.
Research Division</strong> And when you think about that impact how's the mix of it towards the debt side in terms of kind of protecting interest rate expense on debt and also towards kind of variable rate commercial loans? Yes.
A lot of this -- we have both.
Obviously we have some pieces in debt that are swapped and some that are not.
And if you look at our overall long-term debt cost we're just -- we're right at $6 billion.
Slightly underneath that that after swap impact is just under 5%.
That's the liability management initiative if you just take that globally and think about where spreads are for us today that provide us an opportunity to execute some liability management to get that cost down.
We do have some swaps on our loan book.
I don't recall anything large rolling off anytime in the near term that's going to negatively impact our net interest income and the resulting margin though.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just real quick on income CRE I believe the portfolio is about $6.3 billion now.
Can you help us when we think about a trough expected  trough level for this portfolio as we think of runoff decelerating over the next few quarters here? Yes.
That was a little bit of what the -- one of the questions we're trying to get as to when that starts to grow.
And it's a little harder -- the kind of guidance that we're trying to give you is if you take our number today at $7.3 billion and you think of 800 of that needing -- $800 million being in a book troubled category of rolling out our production is increasing.
We're encouraged by our pipelines.
And when that actually shifts and bottoms out Craig is a little hard.
It will be in the second half of 13.
I don't know that you'll see this by the end of the second quarter.
I think you're into the second half before it occurs.
And so that's about as good a guidance that we can give you right now.
Research Division</strong> And David the only reason I dissected the 2 numbers I just gave you the income CRE non-construction portion is it looks like the construction portion has already started to grow.
Yes.
It's about $7.3 billion in total.
You were given just the real estate mortgage number.
There's another I'll call it $1 billion in construction.
And you're right.
To your point we like the growth.
It's not a lot of growth but you can kind of see quarter-over-quarter.
Starting in the middle of last year there was slight growth throughout '13.
We are seeing opportunities there but that book is still fairly small.
Your next question comes from Jennifer Demba of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on the C&amp;I growth could you talk about maybe where you're seeing better demand in terms of industry versus weaker demand? And I'm curious about your multifamily exposure and how you're feeling about that right now given how strong it's been recently for the industry.
I'll ask John Asbury to speak to that very quickly.
So as Grayson and David indicated I would definitely describe the demand by industry as being pretty broad-based.
Energy is probably still among the best but it's not dominating it.
And there's really no clear kind of 1 2 3 that are driving most of the growth at this point so it is pretty broad-based.
Materials commercial services supplies some retailing very encouraging sign to see that sort of diversification by industry type.
And as Grayson said also seeing a pretty good spread geographically.
In terms of multifamily we continue to watch a lot of new construction activity within multifamily.
We do believe that the fundamentals for multifamily remains strong and we think that there is room for what is going in and that's what is on the books.
Having said that we watch very carefully the markets for evidence of overbuilding including the submarkets.
One thing I will add that's also an encouraging sign is as we look at new IRE commitments for Q1 multifamily was just about 30% of total new IRE commitments and that's good.
It used to be that most of the IRE construction we were financing -- or providing was being dominated by multifamily.
So we're now seeing much more diversification by product type which is also a healthy sign.
Jennifer it's Barb Godin.
Our actual multifamily outstandings are down on a year-over-year basis from $2.3 billion down to $1.6 billion.
So again we're being very careful as to what we're putting in to that asset class.
There are lots of equity in those projects well underwritten.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> One question for you Grayson.
In terms of capital return obviously you exited the CCAR process this year with a positive result I think in most people's minds.
How should we think about 2 issues.
One moving to a dividend payout ratio that's much closer to the 30% line in the sand the regulators have provided.
And the pace of your buybacks your $300 million buyback program over the next 4 quarters.
Should we just assume that's going to be even or is there some other way you all are thinking about it? Well I'll tell you that we were first of all we were very pleased to get a favorable response to our capital plan recommendations and our -- positioning  ourselves to be able to execute those plans over the next several months.
If we sort of look at the progress we've made as a company over the last couple of years and trying to put ourselves in position to be able to return more capital to our shareholders we think we've made good progress.
We have been incrementally increasing our action plans to do that.
I think you should anticipate that as our company continues to incrementally improve our financial results then we will seek opportunities to incrementally improve our return to shareholders.
It is as you know it's a much more disciplined process today and it's a much more regulated process and we're working through that process and trying to demonstrate that we can effectively manage our capital position.
I think what you saw this year was a very conservative first step on our part and hopefully over time we can deliver even better news.
I do think that there's opportunities to do that but we've got to continue to perform.
And that's what we're working hard to do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David a question for you.
You've mentioned several times on the call your thoughts around debt management.
And I certainly appreciate the power that that can have for your net interest margin.
I'd like to take that question in another direction.
What thoughts do you have right now in terms of the OLA and any potential debt issuance you might need to do under that? Yes.
We're continuing to evaluate what that OLA impact will be to the regional space.
That's largely if you look at some of the letters that have been sent in from Congress in particular are really leaning towards the bigger money center banks.
That being said we understand that we have to consider everything that's out there in the industry including how much debt we might need to carry.
We are looking for better -- clearer guidance as to what that ultimately would be.
As we have deleveraged ourselves given where our spreads had traded earlier we thought it was a prudent thing to do for our shareholders.
Our spreads have tightened up nicely.
They're obviously never good enough for us but we'd like them to be -- we're encouraged by where they have moved.
And as we think about how we've capitalized the bank and I'm talking about long-term debt and equity capital and our goal is to make that as efficient as possible over the long haul such that our capital structure is sustainable for any environment that we may have whether we're in a low-rate environment or a growth environment.
So we obviously think about that efficiency first and then we think about whatever regulatory implications there might be from changes.
So to the extent the rules come out and say we need to go on a particular direction we will adapt and overcome and deal with it.
But right now we don't have that clear guidance as to what that means for the absolute debt levels for the regional bank space.
Your final question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I have is regarding the loan loss reserves.
You guys mentioned that you think that the reserves to total loans could fall into that 1.5% to 2% range at some point in the future.
Can you share with us -- it seems to me that over the years the regulators have focused on the reserve methodology based on classified and criticized loans rather than a GAAP accounting measure that we all look at which is reserves to total loans.
Are they still focused on driving or determining your reserve adequacy by the classified and criticized loans or are they moving to this GAAP measure? Gerard I'll start and Matt or Barb can jump in.
I would tell you that those are elements of the same conversation.
Obviously criticized and classified you heard on our prepared comments we think now that that's disclosed and available to the public is an important view of what credit quality is in any financial institution.
We used that which is determined by our internal ratings as they are at every other bank as an indicator of what embedded loss would be based on how those loans migrate through our process.
I don't believe the regulators have any stipulated percentage of criticized and classifieds that may have been a way they looked at it globally in the past but I don't think that's with what they're getting at today.
I think they're looking for all of us to have a robust process that's documented and repeatable that provides both to our shareholders and to them as our regulators what an appropriate allowance should be.
What happens is the coverage ratios we compare those among peers just to give us an indication as to how we shake out.
But one should be very careful about comparing peer ratios because we all have different loan books we all are in different geographies different loan types.
And I think that what you ought to look at is how is our loan credit quality migrating from quarter-to-quarter which will give you a better indication of what our ultimate reserving needs to be.
Well said.
Great.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the second question has to with return on equity.
I know you guys provided us with a return on tangible common equity for the period.
But whether you use that ratio or a stated return on equity which we calculated to be in the 8% range this quarter.
If you had to choose 1 or 2 metrics that will drive that ratio the return on equity numbers higher which would then I think suggest your stock price could exceed stated book value at some point in the future.
Is it your loan to deposit ratio? Is it interest rates going up 200 basis points? Is it a lower efficiency ratio better credit quality? I know all of the above will help but if you had to pick 1 or 2 items that really will drive that ROE higher to get the stock valuation higher what 2 would you guys choose? I'd like to start with net income be kind of a good one.
I think that -- I think underneath that is probably what your question is and what really will drive your income higher and I'm talking absolute dollars.
And so as Grayson mentioned and I've tried to support that for us growing our revenue base is important.
And when you are essentially a spread bank 63% of our revenue being in NII you think about what change is there.
So you think of liability management you think about optimizing the less side of the balance sheet more loans versus securities growing earning assets in particular in loans which is what we're all about.
So getting our NII up and getting our result -- resulting margin close to what it had been in the past which was in that 3.35 range to 3.50 range.
And you think of NII and what can grow that revenue and you think of adding new customers and new products and services so you've seen that come out of Regions quarter-after-quarter and we will continue to stay focused on that.
So really Gerard for us to get the kind of returns that we will all be happy with is really about growing our revenue base.
And of course we all recognize we're challenged in a low growth environment.
So while we're here we're going to do the things I just talked about while prudently managing our expenses such that we generate positive operating leverage such that we can have a reasonable return to our shareholders until 1 day that the rate environment changes.
Listen thank you everyone for your time this morning.
And we certainly appreciate it.
And we will talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Regions Financial's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our presenters today are Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
Other members of management are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the Appendix of the presentation.
With that I'll turn it over to Grayson.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and participation in our second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Regions' positive momentum continued in the second quarter with results meeting or exceeding our expectations as we remain focused on executing our strategic priorities and our business plans.
Let me highlight a few of our accomplishments in this quarter.
Loan production increased and more importantly we grew loan balances outstanding.
We expanded our customer base and grew core checking accounts.
We invested in improved technology and experienced bankers to enhance our revenue-producing capabilities.
We continued our disciplined focus on expense management and we completed several actions that improved our debt and capital structure as well as reduced our future funding costs.
We raised our common stock cash dividend.
And finally we began executing common stock share repurchase program.
I am encouraged by our accomplishments in the first half of 2013 and believe that we are better positioned for continued progress in the second half of the year.
Overall our balance sheet is positioned to benefit from an increase in both short- and long-term rates.
Moreover rising rates indicate an improving economy which should ultimately lead to greater demand among our customers for products and services that translate into additional business opportunities.
In addition we are encouraged by the outlook for the Southeastern U.S.
where the majority of our franchises are located.
According to a recent research report for Moody's the Southeast continues to lead the nation in job creation and hiring rates.
Furthermore the Southeast is at the forefront of the national recovery in residential construction.
As housing starts had risen by 84% since May 2011 versus the national average of 62% we have experienced similar trends as the mix of mortgage applications is shifting more towards new home purchases and away from refinances.
This quarter 53% of mortgage originations were for new home purchases compared to 35% in the previous quarter.
Our success this quarter was driven by loan growth which is broad based across our markets.
Importantly 70% of the markets we serve experienced loan growth in the second quarter.
Commercial and industrial loan growth was a primary contributor to the improvement but we also experienced strong growth in indirect auto lending and a modest pickup in credit card balances.
In addition we observed a slowdown in the pace of decline in the investor real estate portfolio and moderating declines in residential mortgage loans.
Further the new loan production remains strong at $8 billion up 23% over prior quarter as all loan categories experienced an increase in production.
Additionally we made progress during the second quarter in growing our customer base which includes business customers as well as consumer and Wealth Management customers.
Growth of this essential measurement should over time provide additional revenue opportunities.
Over the past several months we hired close to 100 financial consultants and placed them in our branch offices.
These financial consultants have generated approximately twice the amount of business that we had initially forecasted and we plan to further expand and enhance this activity.
Our continued focus on prudent expense management is also paying off.
Excluding debt extinguishment cost second quarter's decline in operating expenses drove a linked quarter improvement in our adjusted efficiency ratio of approximately 180 basis points.
We've done this while continuing to make appropriate investments in people in products and in technology.
To illustrate this year we've hired over 500 net new associates many in revenue-generating roles.
Finally regarding Basel III final rule recently approved by the regulators we are pleased that our capital position will be less impacted than our previous estimate and we have greater clarity in our capital planning process going forward.
I'll now turn the call over to David who will provide you greater detail about second quarter financial trends.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Let's begin with the balance sheet on Slide 3.
So we were very pleased with our loan growth this quarter.
At quarter end balances stood at $75 billion which is an increase of $1.1 billion or 1.4% from the first quarter.
Starting with business lending which includes our commercial and investor real estate portfolios these loans increased 2% from the end of the prior quarter.
This growth was broad-based geographically and continues to be led by our commercial and industrial category as ending loans in this portfolio grew 5% versus the prior quarter.
Areas that experienced growth included Regions business capital real estate corporate banking as well as health care transportation and technology lending.
Meanwhile total new C&amp;I production increased 36% over the prior quarter.
And pipelines remain strong and we are beginning to see a pickup in loan production extending beyond middle market into the small business segment which is encouraging.
Notably line utilization increased 30 basis points from last year to 44.7%.
The second quarter is usually a seasonally strong quarter for commercial growth.
And while we expect growth in commercial and industrial loans to continue we do not expect the pace of growth to remain at this level during the seasonally slower third quarter.
We were encouraged that we experienced a more modest pace of decline in the investor real estate portfolio.
This portfolio declined 4% linked quarter compared to the previous quarter's decline of 5%.
At quarter end investor real estate ending balances stood at $7 billion down 26% or $2.4 billion from 1 year ago.
Notably new and renewed production in the investor real estate portfolio has continued to improve as we see more opportunities to make loans to qualified borrowers consistent with our risk appetite.
In fact we've seen a variety of new lending opportunities within homebuilder finance which was 28% of total investor real estate production in the second quarter compared to 17% this time last year.
Overall balances in the investor real estate portfolio may fluctuate depending on productivity levels derisking in payoff activity.
Turning to consumer lending this portfolio totaled $28.9 billion and was steady linked quarter as consumer deleveraging began to subside.
Importantly our mortgage portfolio was relatively stable linked quarter due to the retention of $222 million of 15-year fixed rate conforming residential mortgages in the second quarter.
Declines in our home equity portfolio which includes lines and loans continued as customers take advantage of opportunities to refinance.
However we are encouraged by recent results as loan production increased 47% linked quarter due to an improvement in residential home valuations and customers taking advantage of our home equity loan product.
This production is expected to continue to reduce the pace of decline in our overall home equity portfolio.
Indirect auto loans increased 8% quarter-over-quarter and total loans -- total production was up 21% as we continued to expand our dealer network.
At quarter end we had almost 2 100 dealers and plan to increase the number of dealers by another 10% by the end of the year.
There are currently approximately 8 000 dealers located in our footprint further illustrating the opportunity we have to increase our dealer network.
Credit card balances were also up this quarter as our number of cardholders increased 2%.
And we remain focused on increasing our penetration rate of our credit cards into our current base of 4 million households.
We believe that over time this will result in a substantial increase in the number of customers that carry our Regions credit card.
Overall we're pleased with the determined efforts of our bankers which have translated into improved loan production and growth in balances this quarter.
Historically the summer months have been typically slower production months for the industry but we will continue to stay focused on growing our business.
Let's move to the liability side of the balance sheet.
Deposit mix and cost continued to improve in the second quarter.
Total average low-cost deposits increased $230 million linked quarter and time deposits fell to just 12% of total deposits.
This positive repricing and mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining 3 basis points down to 15 basis points.
While the opportunities for continued reduction in deposit cost is now more limited we have an additional $3.6 billion of CDs maturing in the second half of 2013 at an average rate of 43 basis points.
Now this compares to our current average going on rates for new CDs of approximately 21 basis points.
Let's take a look at how all this has impacted our net interest income and the resulting margin.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $821 million up $10 million or 1% linked quarter.
The increase was driven in part by an additional day in the quarter incremental loan growth continued declines in deposit cost and liability management activity.
The resulting net interest margin was 3.16% up 3 basis points linked quarter.
Again the reductions of deposit and borrowing cost were principal drivers although our net interest margin was also impacted by a decline in excess average cash balances.
As we have previously stated rising interest rates are beneficial to our net interest margin as our asset-sensitive balance sheet reacts favorably to increases in both short-term and long-term interest rates.
Despite the outlook for short-term rates being stable for the foreseeable future the recent rise in long-term interest rates has increased our expectations for future net interest margin.
If rates remain at current levels or increase further we expect modest margin expansion over time.
As long-term rates rise we experienced higher reinvestment yields in our investment portfolio.
And as mortgage prepayment slowed we experienced less premium amortization which amounted to $73 million in the second quarter down from $77 million in the first quarter.
At the end of the second quarter mortgage-backed securities represented 84% of our investment portfolio.
So as long-term interest rates rise we continue to see a benefit to our portfolio yield.
Let's move on to the next slide where we illustrate this point.
We estimate that if short-term rates increase an additional 100 basis points our net interest income would increase approximately $81 million over the next year.
And separately if longer-term interest rates were to increase an additional 100 basis points our net interest income would increase an additional $132 million.
Each of these scenarios would be additive to our base scenario which assumes increases in longer-term interest rates over the next 12 months.
Considering that the recent changes in interest rates occurred during the latter part of the quarter it was not a significant factor affecting the second quarter's net interest income.
It takes time for rate increases to impact net interest income by way of reinvestment yields prepayments and other customer behaviors.
However these recent increases negatively impacted the change in the unrealized gain in the securities portfolio.
So I want to provide you a little more color on some adjustments we've made to the investment portfolio during the quarter.
The overall size of the portfolio declined $2.7 billion linked quarter and we also moved $2.4 billion in securities to held to maturity.
These actions will allow us to reduce wholesale borrowings reduce the overall balance sheet size reduce tangible common equity volatility and increase flexibility and asset liability management.
In connection with these actions we offset portfolio sales with derivatives in order to maintain our sensitivity profile.
We will consider additional strategies as loan growth continues and we get more clarity on fiscal and monetary policies.
Including the assets moved to held to majority at quarter end the securities portfolio was $24.4 billion or 24% of earning assets compared to 26% in the previous quarter.
Let's take a look at noninterest revenue on the next slide.
Second quarter noninterest revenue declined 1% linked quarter primarily related to a decline in mortgage and service charge income.
As expected mortgage banking revenue was down in the second quarter.
Mortgage loan production was $1.9 billion an increase of 6% over the prior quarter.
This production was offset by changes in market rates that affected mortgage servicing rights hedges and gains on sale which ultimately lowered mortgage revenue.
And as mentioned earlier the retention of 15-year production on our balance sheet also impacted mortgage income.
However in order to generate additional mortgage revenue we are also focused on cross-sell opportunities as only 13% of Regions banking households have a Regions mortgage.
Service charges during the quarter were impacted by a couple of factors.
In viewing service charges during the quarter we determined that we needed to make $12 million in additional reimbursements to customers related to our non-sufficient funds policy change that we made last year.
Excluding this charge service charges would have been up over the prior quarter due primarily to household growth that we experienced.
Additionally we continue to focus on other revenue-generating products and services like our Now Banking suite of products.
During the quarter the number of households using these products increased 4% and the number of active Now Banking debit cards increased 6%.
Of note almost 60% of these customers are new to Regions providing us with additional opportunities for revenue growth.
Moving on to expenses.
Noninterest expenses totaled $884 million.
However excluding debt extinguishment cost related to the early termination of certain debt and preferred securities noninterest expenses declined 2% linked quarter.
Credit-related cost continued to decline as well as professional and legal fees.
Salaries and benefits increased slightly this quarter due to additional staffing in income-producing areas as well as increases for merit and incentive compensation.
However we continue to expect that 2013 expenses will be lower than 2012 expenses illustrating our commitment to prudent expense management.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 31% and was impacted by the debt extinguishment cost associated with the early termination of certain debt preferred securities.
Approximately $24 million of the $56 million was not deductible for tax purposes.
That added about 2 percentage points to the effective rate.
So if you exclude that impact the tax rate would have been closer to 29%.
Let's move to asset quality.
We continue to make progress with respect to asset quality.
The provision for loan losses was $31 million or $113 million less than net charge-offs.
Total net charge-offs were down $36 million linked quarter and net charge-offs as a percent of total average loans was 77 basis points which is the lowest level since the first quarter of 2008.
Both nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets declined 5% linked quarter.
In addition total delinquencies declined 7% from first to second quarter.
Inflows of nonperforming loans amounted to $328 million which was within our range of $250 million to $350 million that we've previously discussed.
And while this represents an increase from the prior quarter it's important to note that the increase represents a small number of large credits which create volatility in migration from time to time.
Notably criticized and classified loans which is one of the best and earliest indicators of asset quality continued to decline with commercial and investor real estate criticized loans down 4% from the first quarter.
Our coverage ratios remained solid.
At quarter end our loan loss allowance for nonperforming loans stood at 109%.
Meanwhile our loan-loss allowance to loans was 2.18% at the end of the second quarter.
And based on what we know today we expect continued improvement in asset quality going forward.
So let's take a look at capital and liquidity.
We successfully completed several actions in the second quarter that served to improve the efficiency of our capital structure while reducing funding cost.
Specifically we called virtually all of our remaining trust-preferred securities tendered for higher cost senior debt and issued lower-cost debt.
As a result of these actions along with scheduled debt maturities our overall funding cost improved 5 basis points to 40 basis points and our run rate will improve going forward.
These actions have been included in our margin guidance that we have provided.
We also increased capital returns to shareholders by raising the corporate dividend and repurchasing shares.
For additional information related to the early termination of debt-preferred securities refer to the Index which is at the end of the earnings presentation.
Our capital position remains strong as our Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 11.7% and our estimated Tier 1 common ratio was 11.2%.
We continue to analyze the final Basel III capital rule issued on July 2 and we're pleased that many aspects of the proposal were modified or removed from the final rule.
Based on our interpretation we estimate our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio will be approximately 10.4% a significant improvement from our original estimate under the proposed rule.
Liquidity at both the bank and holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 81%.
Lastly based on our understanding of the new amendments Regions remains well positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
So in summary we continue to be confident in our ability to maintain positive momentum as we strive to prudently capitalize on Regions' opportunities and deliver consistently positive returns for shareholders.
I'll now turn it back to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
List? Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
[Operator Instructions] Operator now let's open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the progression for earning asset growth.
It's great to see the loan progression moving the right way and you talked about shrinking the portfolio a little bit on the security side.
So with period end earning assets lower than the averages I'm just wondering are we at the point where we get to that bottom of average earning assets? And what do you expect to see as far as that trajectory? Yes Ken this is David.
We had as I mentioned in the prepared comments taken some actions with regards to our securities portfolio and deleveraged.
You don't see all of that coming through.
There's a little piece and other assets that will settle.
And you'll see reductions there.
But our earning asset number in general if you kind of look at it over longer term we think we're pretty close to where we can get net growth from here.
We may have some minor adjustments depending on what we do from a deleveraging standpoint.
But I think it really comes down to us is the loan growth which we see as continuing to be positive.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then my follow-up is just any update with regards to ordering around NSFs and any potential changes you might have to make affecting revenue in that regard? No.
I mean we continue to -- we continue to review and challenge ourselves on policies continue to try to make our policies very customer friendly very transparent continue to make adjustments here as guidance comes out.
But no news to disclose is forthcoming at this juncture.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about your NIM guidance.
You indicated that you could see some positive forward movement.
Can you just give us a sense as to how much you're expecting from the funding cost and the asset repricing versus the mix shift? And part of the reason for asking is you do give the chart on the 100 basis points rise in rates at the long end of the curve which 132 bps is 12 basis points to NIM.
We did get that in the last quarter.
I know it comes over the last 12 months but I'm wondering if we're triangulating to 12 basis points and that's what you mean by modest.
12 basis points is above what modest is.
We've been kind of in a stable discussion with relative to our NIM.
And that's really dependent on what happens with the interest rate environment.
We've seen some pretty incredible volatility over this past quarter so it gets a little harder to pin it down exactly.
And we understand that's why you're asking the question.
We tried to put a little guidance both in the short-term and long-term rates to give you our thoughts.
So modest to us there would be some increases perhaps a tad higher than what stable has been.
Stable has been within 1 or 2 points so modest could be slightly more than that.
But I think your number's a little high.
I do think Betsy when you look at it we've had a fairly disciplined approach to deposit pricing.
We're down 3 basis points again this quarter.
But we look at where deposit pricing is today the opportunities to drive that number lower are diminishing.
But we did make with the debt and capital restructuring we did this quarter we did reduce our funding cost.
Loan yields continued to be under pressure.
But -- and you saw a slight compression this quarter on loan yields.
But our portfolio yield should improve incrementally over time.
So we do believe we've got a modest opportunity for expansion.
But a lot of that's going to depend on how rates move and what the slope of the curve eventually turns out to be.
I would add to that you need to really think through -- and I mentioned the impact of prepayments on our investment portfolio.
The premium that we have that we're amortizing was down.
It was $77 million in the first quarter $73 million in the second.
So that change in the 10-year really does impact that amortization quite a bit.
So that's really one of the things to look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The follow-up is just on that Page 6 slide where you do indicate the interest rate sensitivity summary.
That assessment of the 100 bps long end of the curve $132 million NII impact could you just give us some color as to what the assumptions are in there? Is that just static portfolio static moves? And your modest increase in NII takes into consideration competitive actions that you would take? Is that how I triangulate the 2 statements? I think you got to take all that into account.
It's not just the static portfolio.
That has baked in what we think our balance sheet changes are going to be our productions -- loan production's going to be prepayments assumptions on the investment portfolio.
So all that's really baked in deposit cost funding -- long-term debt cost.
So it's really everything's in that guidance.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Going back to your C&amp;I loan growth was that new stuff that was coming in or is it your people tapping the utilization rate? And what is your utilization rate at this point on those portfolios? The utilization rate was up to about 44.7%.
That was not the big driver.
The big driver really was new production from customers.
And as I mentioned in the prepared comments it was really broad-based geographically over 70% of our geographies grew loans.
We had not only that but products broad-base in products.
Health care and transportation were a couple REIT lending was embedded in that too.
So we're seeing a little broader push towards production.
We also have seen that drift a little bit into small business.
That's too early to call.
We're starting to see that which is very encouraging for us.
I would just add to that as this quarter versus last quarter the diversification of our loan production was much better.
Obviously we'd love to see even more diversification and granularity in that production but it was more broad based across markets more broad based across products.
And in particular more broad based across the size of the corporate borrower.
Most of our business in the last several quarters in C&amp;I has come from a larger end of C&amp;I middle market.
We're seeing demand further down into that customer segment today.
And as David said still too early to call but the small business owner the small middle-market customer it's coming back some.
But too early to call it a trend.
Research Division</strong> And how is the multifamily markets -- are you participating in any of that -- this type of lending or is that something you guys don't get involved with? Yes we do.
If you look at commercial real estate for us one of our big drivers has been multifamily.
It represents about 27% of our production year-to-date and it's right behind our home builder product which I touched on is starting to come back as well.
So we're looking at multifamily.
In particular where that multifamily is make sure we don't let that get out in front of us.
But we feel good with those projects that we're putting on today.
When you look at it the commercial real estate production has been historically compared to historical volumes had been very low.
We saw production pickup in 2011.
We saw it pick up even further in '12.
And the pace we're at in '13 it will be a little bit above that.
But as David mentioned in his earlier remarks that portfolio continues to reduce an outstandings.
We're down to about $7 billion.
While we're encouraged by the new production we still have not reached inflection point on that portfolio.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> May first question is a follow-up to Betsy's.
Even with some of the redemptions that occurred this quarter it seems like you still have a higher cost long-term debt footprint.
And I guess this is a 2-part question.
One is what is the propensity to redeem some of that long-term debt especially given your capital ratios are quite high under Basel III? And if so is that included in the NII guidance that you gave on Slide 6? Yes we do continue to look at our long-term debt cost and ways to get that down.
So we haven't stopped looking at it.
Any of those instruments though that have any type of capital attached to it requires approval from our regulatory supervisors.
So it goes through a little longer process to get approval to do that.
But we are continuing to look at opportunities to get our total funding cost down the 40 basis points.
We'd like to get that lower.
And our long-term debt cost is somewhere in the 4.5 range so it's a good point.
Research Division</strong> And is that is redeeming that included in the NII upside guidance on Slide 6 or not? It is not.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my second question is on losses.
I hear you loud and clear in terms of the trajectory of asset quality improvement from here.
But as you think about how the improvement in the Southeast is going where do you think normalized losses will be for Regions as we think about earnings power a year from now 2 years from now? I'll ask Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer to answer that.
We talked a lot about 75 basis points through the cycle is what our risk appetite is.
What that actually means as we come out of a cycle that we should see something better than 75 basis points somewhere down in that 50 basis point area would be appropriate.
And then as we move through the coming years that that will move somewhere around that 75 basis points depending on the mix of our portfolio between consumer and commercial books.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler at Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So first just on compensation here it's up modestly year-over-year.
And I understand that you're adding bodies in income-producing roles and of course variable comp's going to move with loan production here.
But what is really the outlook here now that loan growth is positive and your guidance is positive? Should we expect to see continued kind of modest growth in comp here or could we see it kind of revert back to the downward thrust we saw the last 2 years? Well I think that clearly we're still focused on rigorous expense management.
And we are looking for opportunities to make our organization more efficient.
That being said we also are continuing to add resources that are customer-facing revenue producing.
And where we see opportunity to do that we're going to take advantage of them to grow and diversify our revenue streams.
If we're successful in growing our revenue streams then I think you should anticipate that our salaries and compensation would follow that success.
That being said in our non-revenue producing noncustomer-facing parts of the company we continue to try to become more efficient each and every quarter.
Craig I'll add to that.
Our guidance that we had over the past several quarters for our efficiency ratio to be in that low- to high-50 range which is dependent on an increase in rate it's really the efficiency ratio which came down is more dependent on the revenue growth.
And we see opportunities to hire talented bankers to help us grow that revenue line.
And there are -- there is some time where you make investments that get the new folks up and running to generate the revenue.
But to Grayson's point we are very -- we're wanting to make sure we look at our expenses.
We still believe '13 will be lower than '12 as we've mentioned.
But we are rigorously reviewing the expense management.
But we don't want to stop making investments in people and technology as we've done because that's really what the future of the franchise is all about.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
One follow-up on deposit growth versus earning asset growth.
Your deposit growth actually has been quite negative we understand why.
CD runoff you've been shrinking the bank in certain areas.
But also you think earning asset growth now actually will trend up given kind of your response to a prior question.
So do you think earning asset growth will materially exceed deposit growth the next year or 2? And if so how do you expect to fund that? Well first off I would say our loan deposit ratio is 81% which is about 9 10 points below our peers.
So we have some room there.
We're always looking at growing earning assets loans in particular as well as households and deposits.
So we would -- we've mentioned before that a loan deposit ratio in the low 90s would be fine with us as steady state.
We want to make sure we don't have too much reliance on deposits from a funding standpoint and get the overnight market like most banks did in '08.
But 81% we would argue is a little lower than we want.
And that's why we've been stressing really wanting to have appropriate loan growth to match off with the great funding that we have.
And when you own deposit market share and have the density we do in the Southeast that's our competitive advantage coming through.
But we still want to grow deposits and grow households.
Your next question comes from Josh Levin of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on the check-posting question from before.
Are you still doing high to low? And if so if you switch to low to high how should we think about that impacting earnings? I think Josh that we continue to look -- we are still high to low from a posting standpoint on most of our transactions.
But you have to look at your availability policy as well as your other policies surrounding insufficient funds all in aggregate to decide where that'll turn out from an earnings standpoint we've not finalized on exactly -- on all of those decisions and have not put forth what we believe would be an earnings impact to that.
But that continues to be an internal conversation that is being nailed.
And as we get further guidance we will share that with you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly I guess this is one of the more upbeat and optimistic regional bank earnings call that I've heard this earning season.
You seem to be more optimistic on loan growth than a lot of your peers.
Why do you think that is? Is it your footprint? Is it something else? Well I think it's a number of reasons.
I think one is that we've been showing good loan production numbers for several quarters now.
But the runoff in the commercial real estate portfolio and the runoff in our residential mortgage portfolio has if you will has muted the benefits of that loan production.
As both of those asset segments as the attrition slows in those segments we've been able to show positive growth.
We do believe that we've got a lot of bankers that are calling on customers and trying to put forth a very determined effort to grow our business in a prudent manner.
We think the Southeast is recovering a little faster than some other parts of the country.
But the most encouraging part of this is how it's broadened.
Out of the markets we're serving we had over 70% of our markets show net growth this quarter for the first time and it's a real improvement over where we were.
I think that if you read the other reports we probably are a little more optimistic than many of the peers in this report.
But from a place we've come from over the last few quarters and showing net decline this has been sort of a very important quarter for us in demonstrating that turn.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a sense on the loan pipeline.
You talked a lot about it by product but can you talk about it on a geographic basis? I mean are you seeing more of the pipeline come from some of the more distressed areas that are now rebounding? Yes.
I mean the -- clearly the more distressed areas in our franchise footprint have been Georgia and Florida.
We're seeing good response out of both of those markets at this juncture.
As I just mentioned the demand is more broad than it was a quarter ago certainly 2 quarters ago.
We are seeing if you will on the business side of our lending we demonstrated pretty strong production quarter in the fourth quarter.
Things slowed down a little bit in the first quarter and then strong production here in the second quarter.
Third quarter is typically a slow quarter for our business lending production.
Our pipelines are good but we aren't forecasting third quarter to be as strong as second.
But that is really more of a seasonal bias on our part.
We are seeing -- but we are seeing strong pipelines so third quarter could surprise us to the upside.
We'll wait and see.
On the consumer side we are seeing -- with I guess over 100 basis points increase in mortgage rates we are seeing some mix shifts in our application volumes.
We did $1.9 billion in mortgage production in the second quarter.
It's up about 6% from the first quarter so good production there.
And our pipelines look good.
But we are forecasting that we think that mortgage applications will decline.
It's a little early to predict the decline but it would look like it's somewhere in the 15% to 20% range for the second half of the year.
I would tell you the mix has really shifted.
We saw that mix shift start in the first quarter in our application pipelines.
Today purchase mortgages is running better than 50% of total production.
And in the applications it's even higher than that.
So we do think that there'll be a fairly sizable shift in mix in mortgage originations.
All our lending applications continue to be up.
We're seeing strength in those.
We're seeing good production of new accounts on credit card.
So on the consumer side of the house I think we are seeing some improving signs of strength.
In particular I think the rise in home valuations in some of the more distressed markets that we serve we've seen that provide some opportunities for financing particularly on the equity side of the house.
That was probably more than you asked for.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
Just as my follow-up I just noticed that the branch count was flat this quarter for the first time in a while.
I wanted to get your sense for the branch network from here.
Are you looking to continue to consolidate maybe some smaller branches? And then how should we think about that going forward? We continue to rationalize our physical footprint.
We continue to believe that the physical branch office is very relevant in our business model.
But we also recognize that customers are moving to other channels and we're investing in those channels.
We will continue to consolidate some of our offices.
We look at that.
We go through a very detailed analysis on where consolidations make sense.
And we have -- you'll see us continue to do that.
We've been more aggressive.
We were more aggressive earlier in that regard.
And -- but we continue that and you'll see a very limited number of new offices being opened.
But on a net basis I would say you should look for us to continue to be stable to slightly down.
Your next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David just a follow-up to what you're referring to the premium amortization falling from $77 million down to $73 million.
So you saw rates of 100 basis points I think the amortization is down $4 million.
First is the $73 million a good run rate assuming rates stay at the current levels or should we see a step-down into the next quarter? And also should we think about a 100-basis-point decline would lead to roughly $4 million of decline on a go-forward basis? I think if you looked at rates where we are today that you should see a reduction in the $73 million.
This has been an awful volatile environment so it's hard to pinpoint it.
But I think directionally you're correct to assume that the -- that $73 million would be down.
And if you get an increase in rates from here some go down obviously that much quicker.
But yes so that's the direction you ought to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up to a question that had been asked earlier just in terms of the $12 million of reserves for customer funds is that a one-time item so should we expect that not to resume over the coming quarters? Well we believe that we have evaluated all our refunds relative to -- to the policy change we made last year $12 million was the additional number.
So we -- based on what we know that's our -- that's the final number so we don't see that recurring.
We constantly look at our service charges and how we treat customers and make adjustments but we don't anticipate anything at this point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I can just squeeze in one last question I mean you've obviously given us a lot of disclosure around the rate sensitivity.
But if I were to look at your most recent 10-Q I think it says for a 200-basis-point parallel shift you'd see $312 million of rise in NII.
Given the changes you've had where moving securities adding derivatives so first how has that overall sensitivity changed? And do you guys have any customer facilitating derivatives that will be rolling off over the next years such that you -- we could see your asset sensitivity increasing over time? That's our -- we wanted to really maintain our asset sensitivity.
So you saw an awful lot of actions that we took during the quarter but we really have maintained that asset sensitivity in particular by entering into receive-fixed swaps if you will with a portion of about $2.5 billion worth of receive-fixed swaps.
To maintain that I think we're up 6% on 100 basis points and that's about where we are right now.
Obviously higher rates that much more of an increase in income that we could expect.
So we like that position and want to keep it.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> If you could just -- if you can give us some additional color on new money yields that you're seeing in your loan book particularly on the commercial real estate and the C&amp;I side given the steeper curve here.
On the -- frustratingly that the short end of the curve really has remained anchored for us 1 month LIBOR in that 19- to 21-basis-point range.
Spreads have come under some pressure but we still are off the lows that we have seen before.
We're kind of -- we feel okay with those spreads.
They've been in that 225 250 range for a while and we feel good about that.
We are seeing some pressure on structure that we're not chasing but we've seen that anecdotally in the marketplace.
But from a spread standpoint we feel good about that.
What's important on spread is to think about the customers that are in there.
Grayson touched on it earlier.
We really are a middle-market company a small business lender.
And if we can get the small business segment really demanding credit then our overall yield and spreads will improve.
When you're at the larger end in corporate larger end of corporate the spread tightens up quite a bit.
Not as profitable but obviously not as risky either.
So you have to trade off risk and profitability there.
But in our core middle-market business that we're in spreads have hung in there.
Yes I mean I think if you look at it early on in the crisis spreads really widened.
Obviously they came under competitive pressure and have compressed.
But I would say appear stable at the moment.
An awful lot of competition in the market got some very strong competitors and so you're seeing competition on every transaction.
We still are staying very committed to our relationship banking model trying to make sure that we're banking customers that have full relationships with us.
And we believe that we're keeping our new ongoing business set from a pricing standpoint we believe we're keeping that stable at this juncture.
You do see the strength of our customer base improving.
I'd say the overall credit quality of our customer book continues to improve which certainly helps those customers from a rate standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the expense side I want to get a better feel of what is a good run rate in your eyes in terms of total expenses.
I know you indicated that -- your answer on the comp expense seems to imply that it may not pull back from the jump that the comp expenses saw this quarter.
So if that doesn't necessarily pull back but you do see that negative unfunded provision go away could that mean that your expense level on the core basis x the debt extinguishment could actually go up from here? Well again I'll start with the end in mind that is we believe 2013 expenses will be down from 2012.
We do acknowledge the unfunded commitment credit that came in.
That line item has a tendency to be a little volatile.
That being said we are looking very hard at every expense category.
Obviously our largest one is related to salaries and benefits.
We do and have made investments in talent.
We believe that's important to us long-term.
But we do continue to look at and make sure we have the right people and the right -- the right number of people and the right people doing what we need them to do.
We'll look at occupancy and furniture and fixtures are the next 2 biggest ones and continue to look at square footage and trying to become as efficient as we can.
So I think it's hard to get on a specific run rate but we are continuing to stay focused on improving expenses each and every day.
Well I mean the conversation is really around creating positive operating leverage.
We're trying to take a balanced approach running the business.
We're very disciplined a rigorous focus on expenses but also understanding that not all expenses are bad.
We need to figure out a way to grow our revenues and that requires investing in people and technology.
And so our determination is to deliver positive operating leverage.
That's been challenging in this economic environment but I think just focusing on expenses alone is not in the best interest of the long-term sustainability of this franchise.
But at the same time we realized in this environment given the economy and given reduced demand for some of our products and services we really have to be disciplined around expense management.
And we will continue to do that.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one more clarification on the moving pieces in the net interest income.
Clearly the earning asset base is a little bit smaller at the end of the quarter and I assume that's the level that you're talking about kind of growing plus or minus.
And then the NIM's up on a modest amount with some additional kicker from the premium amortization coming down.
So when you bring all those moving pieces together do you think you can grow the net interest income dollars in 3Q versus here call it assuming stable rates in your loan growth assumption? That was where we're kind of guiding in the prepared comments that if rates will stay where we are right now we think we could have some modest improvements in NII and the resulting margin there.
It's just hard to gauge exactly Matt how much that is with this kind of volatility.
But I think that would be the appropriate guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just longer term as you think about the mix of the balance sheet the security its earning assets is there a longer-term target as loan growth hopefully eventually picks up for everyone including you? Is there a longer-term target versus the 24% currently? Yes.
We're sitting here at 81% loan-to-deposit ratio.
So our ability to attract maintain low cost deposits is really a strategic advantage for us.
We haven't had the loan growth we wanted so we've had to put the delta in the securities book.
So today we probably have the second highest concentration of earning assets in our investment portfolio.
We've talked about that before.
And within that portfolio we at one time had them virtually all in mortgage-backs and we've diversified a way by introducing a little bit of credit risk in the investment portfolio since we weren't growing credit in the form of loans.
But we do believe that as loan growth comes about the economy generally improves then you go back to a more standard relationship of the securities book which would be in the high teens.
So the 18 -- call it 18% so it's 6 points away from there right now.
Your next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on credit quality.
I was noticing in your NPL migration schedule in the commercial segment there was a fairly significant uptick and I'm wondering if that was just one particular credit that moved or a combination of a few.
Yes I mean if you look at migration and you ask what's changed it's really the mix.
You're seeing much more commercial industrial loans in that migration mix and less commercial real estate loans.
That's just sort of where we're at in the cycle.
Commercial and industrial loans by their nature are going to be a little more uneven.
There is obviously more substantial credits in that category.
The other thing we do is that if we have a credit come into a nonperforming status in a given quarter we count it as gross migration into NPL.
And even if we resolve it within the same quarter this quarter we had that situation occur and so you see a fairly large credit in our migration.
But that's already been resolved and now out of our numbers for the next quarter.
So with commercial lending credits you're just going to see a little more unevenness.
It's still in our 250 to 350 band that we sort of think is normalized but will be some unevenness from time to time in that migration.
And Eric that's where we -- I was trying to leave you with comments that based on all that if you look at criticized and classifieds and you see that continuing downward trend early- late-stage delinquencies getting better everything tells us that credit quality is going to continue to improve from here.
So we weren't overly concerned with that migration.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick one.
The -- can you give us what you think your tax rate is going to be for the back half? Yes we had a couple of points in the effective rate this quarter because of the lack of ability to deduct certain of the charges that came through on the termination costs.
That was 2 points and we were at 31%.
So if you take that out we'd be in the 29% range which we think is a reasonable proxy for going forward.
Your next question comes from Gaston Ceron of Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> I just had one quick question.
Going back to the issue I think that you brought up of -- regarding cross-selling I think at the mortgage business.
I'm just curious if you have any more detail on how exactly you're going to go about the cross-sell opportunity and how high you think you can reasonably drive that 13% that you referenced kind of in the near and longer term.
Well what we've been trying to do over the last several quarters is really push a relationship banking model that focuses on the customers and focuses on delivering the full benefits of Regions' banking relationship to our customers.
We sort of internally branded that as Regions 360.
We've been having meetings in every single market across our franchise pulling together different lines of businesses mortgages being a very very important part of that to try to stimulate more conversation between teams more referrals between teams.
We've seen referrals from our branch offices.
They're predominantly focused on consumer banking.
We've seen a lot more referrals from those offices into our mortgage bankers.
Likewise we've seen a lot of referrals coming out of mortgage banking into our branches.
We're driving that across our company.
There's nothing special about that effort.
It's the effort you -- we'd probably hear of and be espoused by most banking institutions.
The key is in the execution is how well can we execute that.
And part of what you're seeing in our numbers this quarter is that execution has materially improved over the last few quarters.
Research Division</strong> But do you have an area where you'd like to drive that 13% kind of penetration rate to or no? I don't know that we set a defined a limit on that.
The way we're really measuring it today is sort of quality referrals from our branches.
They've more than doubled in the last 9 months.
We'd love to keep that number going higher.
The -- obviously with the way the mortgage market is changing at this point in time certainly changes the mix of those referrals but we haven't internally set a penetration number that I know of.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Grayson one for you and then maybe one for David.
Grayson given what appears to be a substantially greater level of capital flexibility with your -- with -- under the Basel III final rule and I appreciate that you're still thinking about some other steps that you can take in terms of the reduction in your debt cost but I'm curious if that -- if the Basel III -- your current Basel III position makes you any more confident about going for potentially bigger buybacks in the 2014 CCAR and capital planning process than you might have originally thought.
Well I mean clearly we were encouraged by where the regional banks landed on Basel III and in particular where we landed in that final set of rules.
We believe it does provide opportunities for us to think differently to some degree as we go through our capital planning process.
More than anything else it provides clarity.
And that clarity I think gives us all more confidence.
And so we're integrating that into all of our capital planning thoughts and processes.
And I do believe it gives us as a company some flexibility that at one point we were concerned we might not have.
But today I think we feel pretty good about our capital position and are building the appropriate plans to manage that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
David a question for you related to the securities portfolio.
I guess I'm just curious if you can provide a little more color as to what investments you moved into the held-to-maturity bucket this quarter.
It looks like it's about 10% of your total investments at this point and if the portfolio duration has changed meaningfully from the 3-plus years that it was at the end of the first quarter.
Yes we really took those assets that are more sensitive to interest rate movements so longer-duration mortgage-backed securities that we've pushed in there.
And our duration in our investment portfolio as a result of the rate change did increase.
Now we're probably in the 4-year range today and that's acceptable to us given the interest rate environment that we have.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Coming back to capital clearly with the final NPR from the Federal Reserve the Tier 1 common ratios for the regional banks comes in the 7% you may have a small SIFI buffer possibly 25 or 50 basis points.
Recognizing that you're not probably going to want to run close to that 7% number what level do you think you're going to see your Tier 1 common ratio which obviously is currently over 10% settle in that? What -- have you guys given much thought yet on where you want to put that number so that there could be greater amounts of return of capital down the road to shareholders? Gerard we think about that every day and it's hard to tell exactly where it will settle out.
I will tell you without OCI in there and having the volatility that would have been there under the original proposal it was going to probably cost us 25 50 basis points just for that.
We have talked about being in that 8% 8.5% range.
We'll see how it settles out.
I will tell you really the gating factor for us has been and we believe will continue to be the severely adverse stressed Tier 1 common ratio versus the spot capital.
And so you really have to kind of reverse engineer that.
We don't know what the severely adverse level will be under Basel III.
Today it's 5% under Basel I.
You would expect there to be some reduction in that given that the risk weighted asset number in general changed for everybody.
And -- but we'll see what our regulatory supervisors do.
But I think it's -- broad-based we would put it best guess at 8% 8.5% right now but really reserve the right for that not to be the correct number based on how we see what the regime looks like through this next CCAR filing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And speaking of that do you think that the folks that do the CCAR the Federal Reserve the regulators are they going to move -- now that the final NPR is in and statutorily everyone knows what the capital ratios need to be for banks.
Will they move away from the percentage of -- assuming of course you pass with strong numbers on the CCAR.
But will they move away from percentage of earnings to just -- or can you guys argue that look at our capital levels we're 200 basis points above where we should be we should be able to give most of that back in some sort of time frame? Or they -- do you think they'll stick with this percentage of earnings thing? Well clearly our regulatory supervisors as do we want a safe banking system.
And I think there's been a lot of change that's been pushed through the marketplace.
I think there's been an awful lot of thought that had gone through trying to do the right thing by everybody.
And we've had a recent change obviously in Basel III.
We need to see how that thinking evolves.
So it's a little premature to bet on exactly what will happen.
Clearly there's more capital in the industry than we've had.
We expect that the amount of capital in the industry will not go back to where it was precrisis.
And I know that's a pretty large gap but I think we need to be careful about getting ahead of ourselves and let's see how this thing evolves in an appropriate manner.
But...
LLC Research Division</strong> And finally on your securities portfolio as a percentage of assets you pointed out that your loan-to-deposit ratio is lower than you'd like.
Where should we see -- when things get back to normal possibly in 2 to 3 years where should we see the securities as a percentage of assets? Where are you guys comfortable with that number? That came up a minute ago.
We really think if you look at history we would have been in that high teens call it 18% just if you want a spot number.
So that's about 6 points away and that's a percentage of earning assets.
So it's 6 points away from where we are today which is $6 billion $7 billion.
Your next question comes from Brian Foran of Autonomous.
I guess most of my questions have been asked but maybe one on deposits.
If you could remind us any embedded assumptions as you think about asset sensitivity? And then just more broadly the way we measure it you guys have one of the bigger jumps in non-interest-bearing deposits as a percentage of total this cycle from about 20% back in the mid-2000s to 32% now.
And just thoughts around sustainability of that increase.
Clearly there's been a lot of efforts internally that you've made to increase that number.
But clearly also in a low rate environment non-interest-bearing deposits tend to be a little higher.
Yes and I think I'll make a few comments.
Obviously this is a very different rate environment for our depositors than we've seen before.
And so a lot of the historical evidence we have I'm not sure how valid that is coming out of this cycle.
We're having to stress test our deposit portfolio to make sure we understand what some of the possibilities are depending on how rates move and how fast rates move the pace of increase in those rates.
And when you look at our portfolio today we have dramatically reduced our dependence on higher-priced deposits.
In particular time deposits as well as some high-priced depository accounts that we just have been less competitive on in this kind of environment.
Obviously as the market moves we'll all have to move and we've run a number of scenarios to try to forecast what those movements might be.
But clearly in this environment it's a little different than anything we've seen before.
Yes I think we need to be really careful that we don't allow history to unduly influence what can happen this go-round.
Because we all -- our industry has a lot of non-interest-bearing on the balance sheets that could move.
Historically that's -- there's a core level of non-interest-bearing that's going to be with us.
We have some pretty drastic moves off the balance sheet.
I think we're like 25% higher than we experienced last time in terms of our assumptions.
That's been baked into our guidance.
And I think it's important to think about these moves not only in the sense of thinking about what our net interest income and margin would be but liquidity risk management which is as important to us.
And although we are sitting here with an 81% loan-deposit ratio we can never lose sight of that.
So we -- you've asked a great question.
It's something we look at all the time but we have higher outflows assumed today than we had before.
And we shock it a number of ways just to make sure that if we're wrong what does that mean to us again in particular as it relates to liquidity.
Your final question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> David before I let you off the hook I want to go back to your interest rate sensitivity analysis.
And if I'm looking at this kind of steepening of the curve that you're doing on the long end.
And I'm kind of drilling down into that premium amortization right now we're running in the 70s.
If you were to extend the duration by 50% it seems like it would probably bring that down into the 50s which would generate about $80 million to $90 million worth of benefit.
Was just curious if that's relative to the $132 million is 65% 70% of that coming from the premium amortization? Or is that out of line with what you're building into that number? Yes we have a piece of that pretty large piece of the change in the premium amortization coming into the margin guidance that $132 million.
So yes about 2/3 is built into that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So about 2/3 of the impact is from premium amortization coming down? Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's about what I was thinking.
And then when you go over to the short-term increase here what are you assuming on deposit pricing? Are you -- as the 100-basis-point increase are you assuming that money market accounts and your CDs are going up 1:1? Are you giving yourselves some credit for lagging those deposit rates? Yes.
I think that we'd end up having about 60% of those that would be adjusted pretty quickly.
Again maybe that's higher than what we've experienced before.
But we have a pretty immediate increase in rates to the extent that that starts happening.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you're not really building any deposit lag into the benefit of the $81 million? Yes less than before.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Because it seems like as we come off the floor at least for the first 100 basis points we've typically seen especially with money market mutual fund accounts maybe not being as competitive that there'll be room for some kind of lagging as you first go through that first moving [ph] rate.
We're certainly seeing this at a really low deposit cost standpoint.
So all these are best guesses but we really need to -- we're going to be competitive with regards to our rates that we offer our customers.
So it's really also dependent on the funding that our competitors and peers have too.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for your attendance and we appreciate your participation in today's conference call.
We'll stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in our call this morning.
Our presenters today are: our Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
Other members of the management team are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing the slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the Appendix of the presentation.
Grayson? Thank you and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and participation in our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today we reported earnings of $285 million for the quarter demonstrating our steady focus on executing our strategic priorities and business plans.
Our continued progress is reflected by many key measures.
We grew total loans for the second consecutive quarter.
We expanded our customer base.
We increased net interest income both year-over-year and linked quarter and we achieved broad-based asset quality improvement.
Year-to-date we grew loans nearly $2 billion including just over $900 million in the third quarter.
Importantly this loan growth extended to both consumer and business lending portfolios.
Looking first at business lending commercial lending remained a significant driver of overall loan growth.
We have a simple and yet effective model that focuses on relationship banking through high-quality customer service coupled with industry expertise.
The model is enabling us to expand our customer base and grow our loans outstanding.
Despite this modest growth uncertainties surrounding economic and political conditions as well as interest rates continued to weigh on business demand for new loans in our overall business marketplace.
On the consumer side we have realized steady increases in new credit card production with active cardholders rising to highest number since we purchased the card portfolio 2 years ago.
Over the last year we increased our customer penetration rate by approximately 110 basis points demonstrating a succes for our marketing and sales effort.
Further we grew our indirect auto loan portfolio for the 11th consecutive quarter.
We currently have relationships with approximately 25% of the auto dealers across our 16-state franchise and we continue to build on our dealer network.
However we do this while adhering to disciplined credit parameters.
In line with our expectations mortgage loan production declined 16% in the third quarter.
As we transitioned from a refinance to a purchase-driven market we are adapting our business model to adjust for the overall production slowdown.
Customers remain at the center of our overall strategy and our commitment to providing products and services that customers need and want remain steadfast.
This means constantly building and improving our technology infrastructure for both our consumer products and services and back-office platforms.
To that end we have made strategic investments in our people and technology.
During the third quarter we added almost 400 new positions many in customer facing revenue-generating and compliance areas.
We are also making investments on our risk management and compliance infrastructure and will continue to do so in order to effectively manage the evolving industry demands.
As we have consistently said we will continue to make prudent investments in our future by adhering to an expense discipline.
At the core of our strategy is Regions 360 which as you may recall is the approach we take to serving our customers and our communities.
We believe this strategy of building a stronger relationship banking culture at Regions will drive revenue increased associate retention and ultimately drive substantial growth.
Prudent risk management another key component of our sustainable growth strategy also continue to pay off in the third quarter.
Net charge-offs as a percent of loans was 0.6% at the end of the quarter as net charge-offs declined to the lowest level in more than 5 years.
We achieved improvement in virtually every credit metric as our credit asset quality continues to improve.
Finally we were able to return capital to shareholders in the form of share repurchase and have now completed essentially all of the $350 million of authorized share repurchases.
In summary overall third quarter results reflect positive momentum as we stay focused on moving the company forward.
We still have work to do but continue to successfully execute our strategic priorities and business plans to deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
I'll now turn it over to David for a more detailed look at third quarter results.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Lets begin with the balance sheet.
As Grayson mentioned we achieved solid loan growth again this quarter as total loans increased over $900 million or 1% from the second quarter.
We grew almost every loan category with both business and consumer lending up quarter-over-quarter.
Starting with business lending which includes our commercial and investor real estate portfolios in total these loans increased 2% from the end of the prior quarter.
This growth continues to be led by our commercial and industrial portfolio as ending loans grew 3% quarter-over-quarter.
The growth in this portfolio was driven by our real estate corporate banking group or our REIT lending and our specialized lending groups also had a strong quarter with healthcare and technology lending in particular achieving significant growth.
Asset-based lending was also a strong contributor for loan growth in the quarter.
Total business lending production was $13.8 billion an increase of 18% over the prior year.
Commitments for new loans were up $306 million or 6% from the prior quarter and pipelines remain solid and we are beginning to see some pickup in M&amp;A activity among our client base and modest increases in small business lending.
Production in the investor real estate portfolio increased from the second quarter and offset the pace of derisking which has slowed considerably.
Investor real estate loan balances totaled $7 billion at quarter end a decline of $84 million or 1% from the prior quarter.
Growth in the investor real estate production was driven by single-family and multifamily construction and July and August were the highest production months in the last 3 years.
While balances in the investor real estate portfolio may fluctuate depending on production levels derisking and payoff activity we believe that we may be close to stabilization in the portfolio.
Now turning to consumer lending this portfolio increased 1% from the previous quarter marking the pivotal shift in balance trends.
Our indirect auto portfolio achieved 7% loan growth from the prior quarter.
In addition to expanding our dealer network we are focused on increasing our number of loans per dealer by developing technology that will improve response time for loan request which should ultimately serve increased loan production.
However we will remain disciplined with respect to our conservative credit requirements and policies.
Credit card balances were also up this quarter as our number of active cardholders increased almost 4%.
Carried in balances totaled approximately $900 million an increase of 3.5% as we experienced 5 consecutive months of balance increases.
Much of this growth was driven by our marketing efforts through balance transfer offers extending to our listing customer base.
Mortgage balances were steady from the previous quarter due to the slowdown of mortgage refinancing activity.
In addition declines in our home equity portfolio has slowed considerably.
Strong customer demand for our fixed rate home equity loan product is offsetting the impact of customer deleveraging on the variable rate home equity line product.
As a result we expect the pace of decline in our overall home equity portfolio to slow.
All in all our third quarter loan growth was stronger than anticipated.
And looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect loan growth to continue but at a more moderate pace.
Let's move on to the liability side of the balance sheet.
Deposit mix and costs continue to improve in the third quarter.
Total average low-cost deposits increased $473 million from the previous quarter and time deposits fell to just 11% of total deposits.
This positive repricing and mix shift resulted in deposit costs declining 2 basis points down to 13 basis points.
As a result total funding costs for the company declined 5 basis points to 35 basis points.
Although opportunities to further reduce deposit costs are diminishing we still have an additional $4.6 billion of CDs maturing in the next 12 months at an average rate of 31 basis points and this compares to our current average going on rates for new CDs of approximately 19 basis points.
Now let's look at how all this has impacted net interest income in the margin.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $838 million up $17 million or 2% from the previous quarter.
The resulting net interest margin was higher than we expected at 3.24% an increase of 8 basis points from the previous quarter.
The liability management and investment portfolio actions we took late in the second quarter provided a 7 basis point lift to third quarter margin.
These actions as well as continued improvements in deposit costs has helped to offset the effects of a persistently low interest rate environment.
Although lower loan and investment yield pressure net interest margin this effect has been largely offset in recent quarters by our improving mix and cost of deposits and borrowings.
The opportunity for the margin to further benefit from lower deposit cost will subside in future quarters.
However the increase in long-term rates has provided some tailwind.
Rising rates are expected to be beneficial to our net interest margin as our asset-sensitive balance sheet reacts favorably to increases in both short-term and long-term rates.
Higher long-term rates affect prepayment behavior.
As a result we experienced a positive impact from lower premium amortization in our securities portfolio.
Lower premium amortization contributed approximately 5 basis points increase to the margin and totaled $59 million for the quarter.
Of course higher long-term rates also benefit reinvestment yields on fixed-rate loans and securities.
With rates at their present level we expect net interest margin to remain relatively stable.
Additional details surrounding our interest rate is in the -- can be found in the Appendix of the accompanying presentation.
Let's take a look now at noninterest revenue.
Third quarter noninterest revenue was relatively flat from the previous quarter due to an increase in service charges that was offset by a decline in mortgage income.
Also during the quarter we divested a non-core portion of our Wealth Management business which resulted in a pretax gain of $24 million.
As expected mortgage income declined in the third quarter as production slowed as a result of fewer refinances due to the recent rise in interest rates.
Mortgage revenue declined 25% and loan production declined 16% over the prior quarter.
New home purchases continue to drive mortgage origination volume and accounted for 60% of total mortgage originations compared to 37% a year ago.
Importantly we have already started adjusting our mortgage operations model to account for the reduction in applications.
Some cost like commission expense declined immediately.
However the other expenses will experience a lag before the savings are realized.
We expect fourth quarter production volumes to continue to decline another 15% to 20% from third quarter levels.
Service charges increased $14 million from the previous quarter.
Importantly new checking account production increased 4% over the second quarter which should serve to facilitate future cross-sell and revenue opportunities.
The products like our Now Banking suite continues to gain traction and a number of households using these products increased 66% over the past year.
Of note almost 60% of these customers are new to Regions providing us with additional opportunities for revenue growth.
Also Now Banking prepaid cards increased 57%.
Let's take a look at expenses on the next slide.
Noninterest expenses totaled $884 million in the third quarter.
As you may recall expenses benefited last quarter from a lower level of legal and professional fees and unfunded commitment expense.
Also last quarter included $56 million of debt extinguishment costs related to the early termination of certain debt and preferred securities compared to the $5 million we incurred this quarter.
Also this quarter legal and professional fees increased 6% compared to the prior year and totaled $34 million.
Salaries and benefits increased slightly this quarter due to additional staffing in many revenue-generating and customer-facing areas.
Expenses have also increased related to investments that we have made to our compliance and risk management infrastructure.
We continue to rigorously review all expenses on an ongoing basis which includes personnel occupancy furniture and equipment as well as branch rationalization opportunities and you should expect some fluctuation in expenses on a quarter-to-quarter basis as we make investments to generate revenue growth in the future.
However if the revenue does not materialize we will reduce expenses accordingly.
We expect fourth quarter expenses will approximate those of this quarter and the 2013 expenses will be modestly lower than those of 2012.
Let's move on to asset quality.
We're very pleased with the overall improvement of our asset quality.
Net charge-offs declined 21% linked quarter and 64% from the prior year and reached the lowest level in more than 5 years representing 60 basis points of total average loans.
Total loan loss provision was $18 million which was $96 million less in net charge-offs.
As a result the allowance to loans declined 15 basis points and was 2.03% at quarter end.
Our nonperforming loans declined 10%.
In addition inflows of nonperforming loans declined 39% to $199 million.
Our loan loss allowance to nonperforming loans was 114% at the end of the third quarter.
Notably criticized and classified loans which is one of the best and earliest indicators of asset quality continued to decline with commercial and investor real estate criticized loans down 10% from the second quarter.
Classified loans have declined 67% from the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009 and based on what we know today we expect continued improvement in asset quality going forward.
Let's look at capital and liquidity.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at the 11.6%.
Our estimated Tier 1 Common ratio was 11.1% which is relatively consistent with the prior quarter.
We estimate our fully phased-in pro forma Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio will be approximately 10.4% and is well above the minimum threshold.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 82%.
And lastly based on our understanding of the new amendments Regions remains well-positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
So I'd say in summary our third quarter results reflect our focus on moving the company forward and we will continue to seek opportunities to build on this positive momentum and maximize shareholder returns.
I'll now turn it back to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Thanks David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Now let's open it up the lines operator.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Okay so a couple of questions.
One is on loan growth.
You indicated that you are likely to see a little bit of a deceleration rate in loan growth as we go into 4Q.
And I just wanted to understand where that's coming from because you do have good momentum in many of your asset classes and you indicated that home equity was likely to shrink less.
So if you could give us some color on where the moderation comes from.
So I think that when you look at the loan growth that we had in the third quarter this was a little stronger than we had initially anticipated.
We began the third quarter we had signaled that we thought the third quarter typically which is a seasonably slow quarter for a lot of our lending activities we fully expect it to be a little more modest than it was in this quarter.
We exceeded our expectations.
We still continue to temper our expectations for the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter typically is a strong seasonal quarter for us in terms of lending activity.
Last year in particular was strong due to a lot of anticipated tax structure changes.
We don't anticipate a repeat of that this year but we do anticipate that fourth quarter will be a good quarter.
We've got good solid momentum but we do -- we are being a little conservative if you will on what we think our opportunities are in the fourth quarter.
We'd certainly be delighted to exceed those expectations but right now we've tried to moderate our expectations given the economy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you were -- you're also looking at year-on-year growth as opposed to linked quarter annualized growth? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on indirect auto nice increase there.
Could you maybe give us a little bit of more color? I know that you have been increasing the auto dealers that you've been working with.
Could you give us a sense as to what types of products? Are there incremental product types that you're going into as well? Yes.
We really have not expanded our product types.
We've stayed pretty close to the structure we've had all along.
We continue to encouraged by the growth in that market although that market has become more competitive and I do see some competitions on both rate and term in that segment of our portfolio.
What we tried to do is continue to grow our dealer network and we've been pleased with the number of dealers that we've been able to add.
But quite -- but we've been very focused on trying to sell deeper into the existing dealers that we have on board to try to generate more volume from those dealers.
But we really have not expanded our product set or our credit criteria for that space.
We've tried to remain very disciplined.
We probably may be giving up some volume given the credit disciplines we've got in place but we still believe it's the correct strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Just a follow up on the expense outlook.
So you talked about 4Q being flat with 3Q and just as you're looking forward to 2014 I mean you're one of the few banks that actually generates some top line growth and I understand that -- and this is showing that some of the investments are working.
But just beyond 4Q how do we think about the trajectory of expenses into 2014? Should we expect expenses to be down again? Or are you more targeting positive operating leverage? And how should we think about the path of the efficiency ratio? Brian this is David.
I will tell you and it's a little premature for us to give you the '14 expense numbers but let me give you -- try to frame it up.
As I mentioned in the prepared comments we have made investments to grow our revenue.
We've done a pretty good job of managing expenses and if you look at our noninterest expense in just about any category average assets at the yields [ph] we're one of the lowest in our industry.
We need to grow our revenue which is why we've made the investments that we have.
So an example of that would be in Wealth Management where that is a relatively new business group for us where we've invested in financial consultants and we expect that revenue to come.
It just doesn't happen in a particular quarter.
So I think you kind of nailed it with operating leverage.
Our goal is to generate positive operating leverage and we think we can do that by making smart investments.
If you look at the efficiency ratio obviously our efficiency ratio was up this quarter.
We still expect over time to be in that 55% 59% range.
Need a rate increase to help us do that but our focus is on growing revenue because that's really where we think overall the generation of shareholder value comes from and that's really what our game plan is.
I'd say Brian I'd say additionally and as we've seen a slowdown in mortgage that's going to take a little while to play out from an expense standpoint.
Clearly we're adjusting our operating model to what we anticipate to be the volume of activity coming through that channel.
Research Division</strong> Got it and then just as a follow-up on the interest margin.
Does this kind of play in the changes in the rates or liability management actions from here? I mean your outlook's calling for stable but you still have some funding levers.
The securities portfolio appears to have bottomed.
Loan yields are declining at a decelerating pace.
So I'm just trying to understand given the move in the margin this quarter is this just your guidance is coming in a bit conservative? Or is the competition that intense such that you see a pickup in asset yield pressure from here? Well we had an increase of 8 points on NIM and we're calling for that to be stable.
It's obviously dependent on rates.
We benefit from short-term and long-term rates and so I think we need to see what impact that prepayments will have.
That was a big driver of our improvement in NIM as our premium amortization came down from about $72 million to $59 million.
We think if rates will stay kind of where they are right now we know we've had a little bit of rally today but -- in rates.
But we think that stability in the margin for the fourth quarter in particular can continue.
We do have a couple of levers as I mentioned on the deposit cost.
There's not as much there as we have seen in the past but we can pick up a couple of points perhaps.
And we still have some -- as we look at long-term debt and think about that that's less available to us because most of those debt instruments are really tied to capital.
So we'll have to consider that in our CCAR process but we worked our funding cost down to 35 basis points.
We have little bit more to go there.
But again I think our focus is on generating the asset side of the balance sheet and we're seeing growth.
We've now grown in a couple of quarters and that's encouraging to us.
Yes and I would just add from a loan competition loan pricing loan yields perspective then I would agree with your earlier comment.
You saw pressure on that for several quarters but the level of pressure seems to have subsided to a degree.
Rates seem to have stabilized sort of where they're at today.
That could change over time but right now we don't see a lot of pressure on that particular category.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Back to the loan yields quickly as a follow up there to that discussion the loan yield was only off about 2 bps in the quarter.
Based upon your commentary you sound pretty confident in the sustainability there.
I mean should we expect that this is the range of a quarterly compression that we could see in that yield? Or could it accelerate a bit? John I think that our guidance was really all-in versus breaking it in individual parts.
I think we did have a modest decline in loan yields there.
A lot of that's really dependent on mix changes that you see.
I think that in this low-rate environment the longer it persists you should continue to see a grind down in terms of loan yields albeit our pace which was only 2 basis points.
Maybe it's not quite that low.
Maybe we have a little more of a decline but I think our funding side protects us quite a bit there.
So that's why we're able to give you confidence on the stability of the margin all-in.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then on the loan growth front can you talk a little bit more about -- I know you mentioned it quickly in your prepared comments around the commercial real estate inflection and particularly in the investors' CRE book.
Can you talk about your confidence of seeing that and when we could really see a material turn in that book? Well I think that what we said this time is that we've seen new production improve albeit from a very low level and we also would say that new production is more broad across different commercial real estate asset classes than you would have seen 1 quarter or 2 before but it's still relatively small.
And we think that given where our commercial real estate -- investor commercial real estate portfolios today is that we could be reaching a point of stabilization and an inflection point would assume that we have rapid growth beyond that point.
I do think we'll stabilize or start to grow modestly in that portfolio but we're remaining very disciplined and prudent in what we put into that portfolio and -- but I would say that at this juncture we're encouraged by some of the increased demand for that product.
Research Division</strong> And is that 1 quarter or 2 away that stabilization Grayson? I think a lot of it knowing what we know today I think that's a reasonable assumption but some of this is the entities behind these asset sometimes accelerate payoffs and pay downs that we can't necessary anticipate.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a follow-up to Ryan.
We're calculating an adjusted efficiency ratio of 68% this quarter which is higher than the mid 60s that you've been trending over the past quarter.
As we look out into your near-term efficiency goals next year could you get back to that mid-60% level? And is message on this call is that getting back to that mid-60% level really going to come on the revenue side at this point? Well Erika I think it predominantly comes from revenue side but it will also come from expense reduction on the mortgage side of our business as well.
David anything you want to add? Yes.
I think we have been at the 63% range.
We popped up to 67%.
We expect to work that down on both sides.
Also we have levers on expense all the time.
But we really want to be careful that we don't just shoot for a particular goal in any given quarter on efficiency.
We want to make the proper investments for the long-term growth of our business.
So I think the predominant driver will be revenue.
And we expect that to come through our investments that we've made.
Now if it doesn't we adjust expenses accordingly to work that down because we're not going to sit here and accept a 67% efficiency ratio.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And as a follow-up to that could you give us a little bit more color on which business lines you're currently investing in? Well it's been across-the-board.
So I gave one example earlier.
Wealth Management was our new business group that we started investing in this year.
We've hired quite a few financial consultants.
If you look at our headcount additions almost half of those are revenue generation folks.
So Wealth Management is one area.
We've hired additional people in our branch distribution channel.
That's where the vast majority of our products are sold.
And we needed more people to grow revenue grow households out in that channel.
So those are two.
We're also invested in relationship managers across the board in multiple geographies and especially lending and general business.
We have the capital liquidity.
We're ready to go.
We're ready to invest and make -- and grow our revenue because you cannot generate shareholder value in the long-term from expense reductions.
You got to make prudent investments to get the revenue going and we are -- that's our bet we're making and if that doesn't come we'll adjust accordingly.
But it's really across the board.
There's no one particular place.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray of ISI.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to beat the expense horse one more time.
Just curious when you think about the headcount additions let's say in areas like Wealth Management how much more hiring do you think needs to occur? And then what kind of revenue lift or productivity goals do you have there and sort of what's the breakeven? Does it take 6 months 12 months 18 months? Just curious on that.
Yes I think we make -- so you picked on Wealth Management on that particular one.
We make investments in people who'll pay for themselves within a year.
And so it's pretty quick.
And different businesses have different time frames in terms of when they pay for the investment.
So again we can react pretty quickly.
We mentioned the reaction we can make on mortgage.
Our mortgage the production for purchases is up.
We have mortgage loan originators dealing with that but then we have adjusted the back office.
So we're moving our expenses around to give us the best return we can.
But these investments that were making in revenue generation areas we should see revenue growing quarter to quarter to quarter.
The question is different investments have a different length of time to return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we just switch sides to the overall balance sheet I know loan growth was very healthy this quarter.
But total interest-earning assets declined a little bit versus second quarter.
Where do you see the overall balance sheet heading? And should we just expect more of a mixed change meaning more loans less securities going forward? Yes Keith what you saw on the earning asset change was really the recognition of the transaction that we made last quarter the deleverage.
We sold some investment securities late in the quarter last quarter so they weren't -- they didn't manifest themselves until a decline in the average assets until this quarter.
We're kind of there.
We think we've stabilized earning asset levels and we grow from here.
So that was really the anomaly that you saw.
If you go back and look at ending you can kind of see what I'm talking about.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> As we think about some of the compliance and regulatory costs that you mentioned are you able to size how big they are either in tax-free terms or maybe the change versus a year ago? And are you fully ramped there? Or is there still some increase to come related to those areas? Matt I think that the -- clearly in the environment we're all operating in we're -- it's an evolving involving [ph] environment that we continue to make investments in audit in compliance and in risk management.
I think those investments will continue to mature over time.
As we're obviously able to recognize more of these processes and be more productive you'll see some rationalization of those resources.
But for right now I think we still see an involving and increasing risk management environment and we're continuing to make investments as we see appropriate.
That being said we have to figure out a way to fund that pay for that on the business side of the house.
And that's why we're investing equally in the customer-facing revenue-producing side.
That tends to be somewhat optimistic -- I mean opportunistic because we are looking for talented team members to add to our team because our primary focus is serving our customers and we need good bankers to be able to do that and we are finding those in select markets and making those investments when we believe they've got fairly rapid payback.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears on the premium amortization.
I think it's about 23 basis-point drag to the net interest margin this quarter.
And as we think about that drag going away over time assuming rates stay here do we just think about kind of an average life of the portfolio 3 to 4 years? And it's probably not exactly straight lined but that thought process or...
Yes Matt.
So we were down quite a bit.
Our duration is right at 4 years.
You can't straight line it but you can do that as a proxy.
I think starting the quarter we had right at $800 million of amortizable premium.
We amortized $59 million so the delta is left.
We do make investments in each quarter but -- so we're down to $740-ish million of amortizable premium.
So you can do your math to get a proxy for that over the 4-year duration.
Research Division</strong> I guess with where the rates are right now are you still buying bonds or premiums? Or -- I'm sure the premiums are a lot smaller than they were before but is it still mostly premiums that you're buying? That's true.
They're just not as large as you mentioned but yes we do.
Your next question come from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was going to ask you about deposits.
As you're making the significant shift to the lower-cost deposits are you seeing total deposits kind of continuing to move lower? It does look like if you look at the period in numbers you're at an inflection point that you might start to see deposits growing again.
Is that kind of what you're thinking about and starting to see some stabilization even grow there? Yes Marty as we sort of going through the cycle and to David's earlier point deposits costs are down to 13 basis points.
Not sure how much room there is but if they go lower maybe it's a point or 2.
But what we've seen is now time deposits are 11% of our book.
We're still growing low-cost deposits but not growing the time book.
And as that time deposit book as they have maturities we're retaining just over 70% of the customers who have maturing CDs in the Time Deposit segment.
Those that we don't retain some portion of them are putting monies in their -- into money market or into savings we're at -- we're very close to the point where we believe we can start showing net growth in total deposits depending on customer behavior.
But as we've got our book down to this roughly 11% mix of time deposits I think we're a much better position as you look forward.
We think this has been a good strategy for us.
We think it's really helped us during this point in time.
That being said as rates increase we're trying to model what happens to deposits.
There's not a lot of historical models for how deposits will react in this kind of market because we've never really been here before.
But we're spending an awful lot of time understanding what we believe to be customer behaviors in a rising rate environment.
Marty I'll add something that's quite interesting this quarter on deposits.
So we had been retaining in total about 70% of our deposits whether it be in CDs rolling over into a new CD or other core deposits.
That number was up to about 80% so 70% of it as Grayson mentioned went into -- retained as a CD.
But we had -- the delta there going into core deposits.
So it's quite -- it wasn't the run-off that we had seen earlier.
And I -- we can suspect that was related to rates have just been lower and the delta between what's maturing and what's going on is not as great as it was.
But we feel good about our deposits balances.
The investments we've made that we've talked about in terms of people should also help us grow those deposits and we're looking forward to that because you never have enough low-cost deposits.
LLC Research Division</strong> When I was just looking at the period end numbers if you look at interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing the total number actually was up over the average.
So it looked like it was starting to signal that inflection point.
And then lastly David I was just curious as you've made this big shift out of time deposits when rates start to go up do you think you can kind of go back in and start recapturing some of that market share when the time and the market's appropriate? Marty this is -- what we've tried to do is during this time period we're actually running some number of different strategies in some of our markets to try to determine what the customer behavior will be.
That -- today our loan-to-deposit ratio is 82%.
So we don't necessarily need additional deposits today although we're always looking for new customers and trying to grow our deposit base.
And so we are running a number of different strategies across our markets so that we can find what's the best strategy for raising deposits when that time occurs.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First looking at charge-offs it looks like much of the sequential improvement came from lower C&amp;I and owner-occupied CRE.
And I'm curious to know there if that was a function of lower units of charge-off or lesser degree of severity or higher degrees of recovery or what the lot loss content experience was.
We've got our Chief Credit Officer Barb Godin with us today.
We'll ask Barb if she'd answer that question.
Certainly.
It's a little bit of both.
What we've seen is the granularity of our portfolio has clearly gotten a lot smaller.
We really don't have that many credits particularly those that charged off that were more than $1 million.
We've only had a handful.
So that explains a lot of those averages coming down.
Same thing with number of units came down and the loss of [indiscernible] that had also came down.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just jumping back to the NIM for a moment.
Looks like you've got a couple of chunks of long-term debt coming up in '14.
I think it's $350 million and something like $850 million in '15.
What would be your intent with respect to refunding those maturities at this point? Yes.
We constantly look at our maturities a couple of years in advance.
We will get to a point we need to add new long-term debt.
So we do have a slug coming due in the latter part of 2014 and we've dealt with that already in our liquidity profile because of our policy.
So we would -- you should expect us to be in the market at -- in the not-too-distant future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I may just sneak in one more.
The -- with respect to the -- it looks like sorry back to your credit.
The 30- to 89-day past due seem to be sneaking up in a number of buckets.
And I'm just wondering how we reconcile that with the overall decline in asset quality trends.
So that's it for me.
It's Barb Godin again.
A lot of that does have to do with seasonality especially as you think of any -- at the consumer bucket.
With back to School et cetera happening we typically do see the 30- to 89-day delinquencies go up.
On the Business Services side in general that's usually 1 or 2 accounts.
We've looked at all of them.
There is nothing in there that suggests that there's any trends at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get the little sense on the Now Banking initiative.
It seems like there was good increase in utilization there.
Can we just kind of get an overview for that contributed to deposit service charges and what your outlook is there? I mean the -- we continue to look at ways to improve our product set to serve our customers.
And the Now Banking suite has been an attractive offering for us.
It's growing from a relatively low base.
So the contribution to our earnings from that product set are still relatively small but growing.
And so -- but more importantly it's given us the opportunity to really serve our customers and to try to attract new customers into our branches.
I think the most exciting part is 60% of the customers are new to Regions.
So it's given us an opportunity to really attract more people into our branch offices and garner more utilization of that branch channel to try to serve an even greater number of customers.
David do you want to talk a little bit about contribution? Yes.
I think as Grayson mentioned they're still relatively small.
I think kind of if you look at the run rate for the year we'd be in the $15 million to $20 million range and growing.
So we're encouraged by the growth not because of just the dollars today but where we think it can go over time serving customer segments that hadn't been served before as well.
And it gives us a chance to grow households there.
And if you look at our footprint you look at the opportunities for Now Banking suite it's pretty large.
So we're encouraged by that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-on to that is there updates is kind of working with the CFPB in regards to this product? And have they given you any additional feedback? Not on this product.
No this is really prepaid debit card and check cashing and expedited bill pay.
Those are the kind of products [indiscernible] and funds transfer.
So they're really not a -- these are good core products and we don't see issues relative to that agency on this.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on commercial loan utilization rates.
A number of your competitors have said that those softened in the third quarter versus the second quarter.
I'm curious if you've had the same experience on what your expectations are for the fourth quarter.
Matt we haven't seen that.
I mean our utilization rates of lines is relatively flat didn't move much at all during the quarter.
If fourth quarter follows historical trends we'll probably see a little increase in utilization.
But so far just really haven't seen much movement in it this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just pulling up a little bit in terms of the buyback you mentioned that you're pretty fully used your current authorization.
And is it fair to assume that you would not really plan on doing much more in the buyback front until you are out of the 2014 capital planning process? Yes I mean as you know any account actually requires approval from our regulatory supervisors.
So we executed as we mentioned -- when the CCAR came out with what our plan was we executed in accordance with that plan as our board allowed and as regulatory supervisors authorized.
So if we want to have additional return to the shareholders via buyback or dividend it requires us to submit a CCAR filing and ask for permission.
[indiscernible] as we do 2014 CCAR.
Your next mission comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had to jump off so I apologize if you've answered this question.
Can you guys share with us on indirect the auto you've had obviously good growth here.
There's been some commentary in the media about the Consumer Protection Bureau going after the dealers with the dealer reserve.
What's your guys' view on that? How can you manage that process if they're forced the dealers to lower that reserve going forward? Couple of things Gerard that I'd point to.
First the banks represent about 42% of this market.
So there are captives [ph] and others that are in this market.
There has been some indication of wanting to get that down.
We have seen competition come down to where we've been.
And we continue to monitor that monitor our dealers.
We have an aggressive program to go in and make sure our dealers are being fair to the customer.
And when we find the dealer is not we don't do business with the dealer.
It's pretty straightforward and we feel very confident with what we're doing.
That being said we'll have to wait and see.
And as we know there's a -- the regulatory environment can change and we have to adapt and overcome.
We've done that over and over through the numerous changes that have occurred over the past several years and we'll continue to do that in this case.
But we feel confident where we are right now that we're doing the right thing by our customer.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question shifting gears obviously you guys are very well-capitalized.
And I know regional banks do not know what their Basel III Tier 1 Common ratios will be under the new rulings.
Clearly 7% is the minimum but maybe there'll be a small SIFI buffer.
When you do your CCAR what's to prevent you from -- for asking for a 100% payback -- or return of capital I should say of earnings 2014? Physically nothing is to prevent us.
The -- what we don't want that happen is -- it's incumbent upon us to manage our capital in an appropriate manner.
And that starts with our Board of Directors and goes through all of us at managed capital.
And there's a lot of us through this capital planning process to that.
So we want to make sure that we have an appropriate amount of capital.
And then whatever we deem to be appropriate is submitted to our regulatory supervisors for their sign off.
And that includes spot capital and stress capital.
So nothing prevents us.
It just needs -- we need to put in something that makes sense that's credible that's based on our strategy and what we're going to do with our balance sheet.
And there are a lot of factors that go into managing capital.
So it's not as easy to say just -- clearly have plenty of capital today to be able to return 100%.
We haven't seen that in our industry.
We clearly want to utilize our capital in the most efficient way when that's -- whether it be dividends or share buybacks.
But most importantly we use the capital that shareholders gave us and that we generated through our operations to invest in our business going forward.
And that's what we primarily want to do first.
And we think loan growth investing in businesses like our credit card portfolio that we bought sometimes M&amp;A will come back and that'll be a place to utilize capital.
And if we can't do those things return it to the shareholders is right thing to do.
So all of that goes into our thought process.
We're in the middle of that as we speak and we think we'll have a very good -- we have a very good capital planning process with good governance and we'll exercise that and file our CCAR in 2014.
And you'll see the results of that soon afterwards but nothing's technically to prevent you from doing it.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaston Ceron of Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the issue of loan growth for a second.
As you look at across your key markets whether you're looking at Florida or Alabama or some of the other large ones I mean is there any way to kind of parse through quickly and get some color on how loan growth is behaving different -- demand for loans is behaving differently in some of these key markets? Or is it pretty even across the board would you say? No I think that if you -- you look at sort of our loan growth and I would -- actually we decipher that geographically and also by lending segment.
And you've got geographically clearly a lot of the growth is -- has come out of the markets that have energy-related activities Louisiana and Texas.
A lot of our growth also has come out of some of the Midwest markets in St.
Louis and also Indianapolis been particularly strong in those markets.
But even in the markets that have been the most challenged if you will like a Florida we're seeing the pace of loan run-off there materially slow and the pace of new production improve.
So as I mentioned earlier in my comments I believe I mentioned this is that we grew -- in our 16-state footprint we grew loans in 70% of our markets.
We divide those 16 states in 19 markets and we grew in 70% of those.
And so it's broader this quarter than it was last quarter geographically.
It's also broader from a lending segment as well.
Still -- there's still a lot of dominance in the large commercial and corporate space but we did see more activity in the commercial middle market and even in small business and even in consumer this quarter than we saw previous quarter.
So incrementally better incrementally broader is what I would say.
And geographically geographically not all geographies are behaving the same today but closer than they were.
Research Division</strong> And are you growing any more optimistic about Florida would you say or not? Ask your question again please? Research Division</strong> I'm sorry are you growing more optimistic about Florida getting even better or not? It's holding steady...
Yes we are.
I mean the housing recovery we say is real.
Florida was at the center of this economic storm and so recovering a little slower and later than some of our other markets but clearly recovering and we're optimistic about it.
We think long term it's going to be a good market for us.
We've just got to be disciplined in how we do business there.
Your final question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clean-up ones here.
So David I was just wondering can you help us dimensionalize the magnitude of the cost reduction that could come out of the Mortgage business as you get around to that point of level setting that back to the new revenue run rate? Ken it's hard to come up with a point estimate on dollars.
I think what we need to do is adjust it according to what the revenue opportunities.
Our revenue opportunities are different than the other areas.
Remember we're more of a purchase shop than we were a refinance shop.
So I think that we've seen still pretty strong demand over our purchase mortgage.
We want to make sure we have mortgage loan originators out there.
We've grown that but we've reduced our back office 22% thus far and that's primarily through reductions in temporary staff and overtime and some people.
But that's really what the driver is.
Obviously if revenue is down commissions are down.
You see that pretty quick.
So I think what I'd leave you with is we're confident we can adjust mortgage pretty rapidly.
It just may not follow a given quarter.
That being said that business is very strong over the past couple of years.
Gains on sale were large.
All that's starting to rationalize a little bit but it's a great shop.
They do a fabulous job in the Mortgage group in the Mortgages Servicing group.
And we will continue to make investments in appropriate places and we'll cut back on other areas and adjust accordingly.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just in terms of just -- you're continuing to fund this growth build-out is there anything you guys are contemplating or have in place on the branch and stamping side to also cut out of that side of it as well? We spend -- it's a great question and we spend an awful lot of time looking at all of our sales and service channel.
And the branch channel is one of our more expensive channels and we continue to monitor the behavior of our customers and the utilization of our customers in those offices.
You'll continue to see us.
We've got 1 700 -- a little over 1 700 offices.
We continue to look at the size of those offices and the technology that's embedded in those offices and in terms of where there's opportunities for us to make that delivery system more efficient and more effective.
And you'll continue to see that out of us.
We don't have anything to announce today.
But when you look at the way we're servicing our customers we continue to invest in each channel but we continue to rationalize each channel at the same time.
And then we do that on a regular basis in our branch channel.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And a little clean-up one.
Relative to this Wealth Management business sale can you talk about any revenue and expense impact that that'll have going forward? Well we've made investments in the -- in our Wealth Management Group.
Those financial consultants I was talking to you about we've added probably over 100 [ph] people during the year.
If you could just compare our third quarter of '13 in terms of some of our fee income-related to this business we're up 67%.
And I think that that's really important to us.
We have cut businesses out.
You saw us -- we had a disposable on a segment -- or in Wealth Management that wasn't as profitable as we wanted it to be.
So we've made adjustments there.
But Wealth Management is relatively new and we'll continue to make investments to grow that revenue and feel very confident that revenue comes pretty quickly.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So David on that sale piece will that be a noticeable change either the revenues that go away or the expenses that go with it to the point of it not being a very profitable part of the business? Does it have a noticeable effect on the financials going forward? Ken I doubt you'll even notice that you'll even see it.
It does it impact us some but it was pretty negligible.
So I don't think you'll -- I don't think you miss it net-net after expenses that we're taking out after revenue loss.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last last one on expenses is professional fees you guys are spending for the regulatory side and getting ready for CCAR and whatnot does that eventually crest and roll back over? Is that bit of a temporary blip that you're seeing there or does that roll over at all? Well you can see volatility in professional fees.
You can look at any particular quarter and see the kind of volatility we have.
We're in a unique environment our whole industry is.
And so you seen that a little higher than we want to be.
So we think in time if we can get the environment stabilized we think those costs rationalize as well and come down to a more acceptable level I should say.
Thank you for everyone's time.
There being no more questions we'll stand adjourned.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call this morning.
Our presenters today are our Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
Other members of management are present as well and available to answer to questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
With that said I'll turn it over to Grayson.
Good morning and welcome to Regions' Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
We certainly appreciate your participation and interest in Regions Financial.
Overall we are pleased and encouraged by our achievements and results in 2013.
During the year we focused on the fundamentals serving the financial needs of our customers and communities and building stronger relationships with them.
We began 2013 with 3 important business priorities: first loan growth; secondly customer relationships; and also third prudently managing expenses.
Through the focused execution and dedication of our team we accomplished these goals and made meaningful progress.
For the year total new and renewed loan production increased $4.5 billion or approximately 8%.
As a result we experienced $1.3 billion of balance sheet loan growth in 2013 which excludes the residential first mortgages -- mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale which I'll address momentarily.
This growth was achieved by expanding our customer base and deepening our relationships with existing customers aided by a new initiative launched in 2013 called Regions 360.
This is a very deliberate and prescriptive approach to building a strong relationship banking culture on a foundation of trust.
Further we increased our total number of customers and households in a diversified manner.
Business lending achieved solid growth in 2013 led by commercial and industrial segment.
This segment increased $2.7 billion from the end of 2012 primarily driven by specialized lending teams.
Also we believe our investor real estate segment is close to stabilization as new loan production continues to increase and payoffs and pay downs diminish.
On the consumer side of the balance sheet our indirect auto portfolio experienced a very strong year with production up 35% and loans increasing 32%.
We accomplished this by expanding our dealer network by 12% and increasing our average loans per dealer by more than 50%.
We also achieved growth in our consumer credit card portfolio as the number of active cards increased 7% year-over-year.
And we grew our home equity loan and line production by 78% from the same time last year.
Additionally our full year 2013 adjusted expenses were lower than 2012 expenses on the same basis and we've did this while making significant investments in people in products and in technology.
We will continue to rigorously manage all expenses in a disciplined manner as it is part of our culture while ensuring that we have the right infrastructure and foundation in place for future growth.
In addition to successfully executing our business priorities we also had a number of other noteworthy accomplishments in 2013: we increased net income available to common shareholders 10% over the prior year; we expanded our net interest margin by 16 basis points; we lowered our deposit cost by 10 basis points; we achieved broad-based improvement in asset quality with every metric significantly improving; we raised our common stock cash dividend; we completed several actions that improved our debt and capital structure while reducing overall funding cost; and again we completed a common stock share repurchase program.
Clearly we accomplished a great deal in 2013.
With respect to the fourth quarter there are several notable items that impacted results.
David will cover these in more detail momentarily but I wanted to highlight a few of them.
First accelerating our de-risking strategy.
We transferred $686 million of troubled debt restructured loans to held-for-sale.
This transaction has minimal capital impact and will improve the company's credit profile.
Importantly as results of this transaction we can experience lower FDIC premiums and can redeploy the capital more economically.
In addition we recorded a $58 million nontax deductible charge related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities concerning matters dating back to 2009.
And during the fourth quarter we announced that we will consolidate 30 branches in early 2014.
This will create additional efficiencies within our branch network channel and demonstrates our ongoing rigor and discipline with respect to expense management.
Looking to 2014 there are several underlying economic and political factors that have the potential to influence the U.S.
economy but nonetheless consumer balance sheets are healthier than they've been in some time.
Corporate balance sheets are in solid condition and the housing market in our communities continued to improve.
These factors along with an improving global outlook should contribute to moderate and improving GDP growth in 2014.
Again we are encouraged with the progress we've made in 2013 but more importantly we look forward to building on that momentum in 2014.
All team members at Regions are focused on building a stronger company each and every day.
We believe that -- we believe in our company and we believe that by focusing on and serving our customers and communities will ultimately drive our results and benefit our shareholders.
I'll now turn it over to David to discuss fourth quarter results.
Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
Today we reported earnings of $219 million for the fourth quarter.
And as Grayson mentioned there were a number of notable items occurring in the quarter that warrant further explanation.
I'm going to go with those first and then I'll get back to the core operating results later.
In the fourth quarter we identified approximately $686 million of primarily accruing first lien residential mortgages that were classified as troubled debt restructurings and transfer them to held-for-sale.
The majority of these loans were originated prior to 2007 and approximately 40% are located in Florida.
We expect to execute a sale of these loans early this year.
In connection with the loan transfer we recognized incremental net charge-offs of $151 million however this was partially offset by $76 million of allowance for loan losses.
As a result the pretax net income impact of the transaction totaled $75 million.
Also in the fourth quarter we terminated 2 leveraged leases incurring a $39 million gain however the tax expense related to these terminations was $33 million and therefore the benefit to net income was $6 million.
In connection with the branch closures that Grayson mentioned we incurred additional pretax expenses of $5 million in the quarter.
In addition as Grayson also mentioned at the end of the quarter we recorded a $58 million regulatory charge associated with previously disclosed matters dating to 2009.
We are in discussions with our banking supervisors to resolve their inquiries on these matters and although you may have additional questions please recognize that we cannot comment at this time beyond this disclosure.
Also the company incurred a $40 million reduction to overall income tax expense primarily related to the valuation allowance for certain state net operating losses that occurred in previous years.
And finally during the quarter we incurred $25 million of additional legal expenses resulting from adjustments to the indemnification reserve established in connection with the sale of Morgan Keegan.
And these legal expenses are reflected in discontinued operations.
Combined all of these items lowered net income by $75 million and earnings per share by $0.05.
Let's take a look at fourth quarter operating results starting with our loan book.
Total average loan balances were up 1% from the previous quarter however ending loans declined 2% due in part to the transfer of residential mortgage loans to held-for-sale at the end of the quarter.
Excluding the loans transferred adjusted ending loans declined 1% linked quarter.
Specifically average commercial and industrial loan balances increased $631 million from the prior quarter however on an ending basis they declined $451 million.
The decline in period in commercial loan balances resulted from repayment of loans some of which were nonperforming corporate clients accessing funds in the fixed income market and volatility in REIT lines in the normal course of business.
Finally part of the decline was also driven by $104 million of leveraged lease terminations.
This decline was partially offset by increases in specialized lending led by technology and energy.
Encouragingly commitments for new loans increased quarter-over-quarter by $500 million to $38 billion.
Investor real estate loans were down 3% from the previous quarter as the pace of pay downs and de-risking was only partially offset by new loan production which increased 2% from the previous quarter and new production is expected to remain strong going forward.
Indirect auto continued to lead consumer lending as loan balances increased 6% from the prior quarter.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had more than 2 100 dealers in our network and we remained focused on increasing our pull-through rates primarily through technology enhancements.
The total home equity portfolio was steady linked quarter as the pace of new production in the home equity loan product offset customer deleveraging within the home equity lines of credit.
As a result balances in the fixed rate home equity loan product have increased 17% over the previous quarter.
Credit card balances increased 6% over the third quarter as we increased the number of active cardholders by 4%.
We will continue to focus on expanding the number of customers that carry a Regions credit card and have increased our penetration rate by 50 basis points over the third quarter.
And finally mortgage balances were relatively flat excluding the transfer of loans to held-for-sale.
And looking ahead based on what we know today and our economic forecast we expect 2014 loan growth to be in the 3% to 5% range.
Let's take a look at deposits.
Deposit mix continued to improve in the fourth quarter as low-cost deposits increased to 89% of average deposits.
This positive repricing and mix shift resulted in deposit cost declining to a historically low level of 12 basis points.
Total funding cost for the company declined to 34 basis points in the quarter.
Let's see how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $846 million up $8 million or 1% from the previous quarter.
The resulting net interest margin was 3.26% an increase of 2 basis points from the previous quarter.
For the fourth quarter continued increases in long-term interest rates served to further reduce prepayments on securities and the related premium amortization.
Lower premium amortization contributed approximately 5 basis points increase to the margin and totaled $45 million for the quarter.
Of course higher long-term rates also benefit net interest income and net interest margin over time through higher yields on reinvested fixed-rate loans and securities.
In 2013 liability management strategies and an improving mix of deposits offset the negative impact of a persistently low-growth and low-interest rate environment.
Although the pace of decline in deposit cost has slowed the recent rise in long-term rates off mid-year lows help provide additional lift to the margin.
Our balance sheet continues to be asset-sensitive to short-term interest rates mainly attributable to floating rate loans.
Moreover further increases in long-term rates would provide additional benefit to the margin but at a somewhat reduced pace given prepayments and premium amortization have already slowed considerably.
With rates at their present level we expect the net interest margin to remain relatively stable in 2014.
Let's take a look at noninterest revenue.
Fourth quarter noninterest revenue was up 6% from the previous quarter.
The fourth quarter included a net gain of $17 million related to the sale of certain low-income housing investments as well as the $39 million gain previously mentioned related to leveraged lease terminations.
Noninterest revenue continues to be impacted by lower mortgage revenue.
During the quarter mortgage production declined 23% and mortgage revenue declined 17%.
As a result we continue to optimize the mortgage operations model and reduced overall mortgage production expenses 10% in connection with lower revenue and we expect mortgage expenses related to production to continue to decline.
As a reminder the previous quarter included a $24 million gain related to the divestiture of a non-core portion of the Wealth Management business.
As previously disclosed we will discontinue new enrollment for our Ready Advance product and begin working on a transition plan related to our existing customers.
This transition plan will be executed during 2014 and includes the recently introduced new Savings Secured Loan to help meet the credit needs of our customers.
In 2013 we've made significant investments in our Wealth Management group by adding over 100 financial consultant positions and we expect these positions to be fully profitable in 2014.
Additionally we were successful growing certain consumer product lines throughout 2013 that will provide future revenue opportunities.
For example we grew our Now Banking households 26%; our active debit card users 2%; and our prepaid card users 50%.
Let's take a look at expenses.
Noninterest expenses totaled $946 million in the fourth quarter and included $58 million of expense related to the regulatory charge and $5 million of expense related to the branch consolidations.
Deposit administrative fees or FDIC expenses were lower in the fourth quarter due to an improvement in asset quality overall business performance and refunds of previously incurred fees.
As a result these costs are expected to be lower in 2014 compared to 2013 and the run rate is expected to be between the levels reported in the third and fourth quarter.
Salaries and benefits increased 2% this quarter reflecting an increase in headcount primarily in customer-facing revenue-generating and compliance positions.
This was partially offset by a decline in mortgage incentives.
Generally speaking it takes about 12 months for these customer-facing positions to become profitable contributors.
Our adjusted efficiency ratio improved 100 basis points from the previous quarter and we expect this to continue to trend down over the near term.
Some fluctuation expenses can occur on a quarter-to-quarter basis in order to generate ongoing revenue.
However if the revenue does not materialize we will adjust accordingly as we are committed to generating positive operating leverage.
We have effectively managed expenses throughout the cycle and have consistently reduced full year adjusted expenses since 2009.
Full year 2013 adjusted expenses were lower than 2012 expenses on the same basis.
And we expect this trend to continue in 2014.
Now let's take a look at asset quality.
Improvement continued in the fourth quarter as most credit metrics improved.
As previously discussed this quarter's results were impacted by the loans transferred to held-for-sale.
Adjusted net charge-offs which excludes the amount related to the transfer of loans amounted to $127 million.
The provision for loan losses was $79 million of which $75 million was related to the loan transfers.
Our nonperforming loans declined 20% linked quarter and inflows of nonperforming loans declined 12% to $175 million and our coverage ratios remained solid.
At quarter end our loan loss allowance to nonperforming loans increased to 124%.
Notably criticized and classifieds loans continued to decline with commercial and investor real estate criticized and classified loans down 14% from the third quarter.
Troubled debt restructurings declined 14% from the previous quarter and excluding the loans associated with the transfer TDRs would have been down 32% or approximately $1 billion.
Based on what we know today we expect favorable asset quality trends to continue.
However at this point in the cycle volatility in certain metrics can be expected.
Let's take a look at our capital and liquidity.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 11.6%.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio was 11.2% an increase of 20 basis points.
We estimate our fully phased-in pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio would have been approximately 10.5% well above the minimum threshold.
As you are aware we submitted our CCAR earlier this month and we expect to get the results sometime in March.
Liquidity at both the bank and holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 81%.
And lastly based on our understanding of the proposed rule Regions remains well-positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
Let's say in summary our fourth quarter and full year results reflect our continued focus on moving the company forward.
At the core we remain focused on our customers by continuing to drive a culture of leading service quality across the company while following a shared value philosophy.
We believe focusing on our customers having an engaged workforce and making a positive impact on our communities will ultimately drive long-term growth and shareholder value.
Now I'll turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
We have a number of you already in the queue and we want to take as many as possible this morning.
[Operator Instructions] Now operator let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I missed the very front end of your call and I don’t know if you addressed it but you did give guidance of loan growth of 3% to 5%.
Am I correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Can you just tell me where do you think that's coming from? And is that just really through discussions through your customer base? Paul we've gone through our lending segments extensively and we had pretty solid growth in the fourth quarter in terms of average balances.
There was obviously a lot of activity that occurred near the end of the quarter.
We had a number of pay downs and payoffs that had taken place.
I think you had the transfer of the first residential mortgages over to held-for-sale.
You had more customers taking advantage of the capital debt markets that we've seen in the past.
But we have continued to be encouraged by signs that we've seen in looking at our production looking at our pipelines and looking at what we believe is an improving economy.
We've seen particular strength in certain segments I would mention 3.
I think we've seen good strength in both energy and in technology but we also have seen strength in commercial real estate.
We believe that our commercial real estate portfolio for the first time is close to a stabilization point.
We're encouraged by the production.
And we think we've got an opportunity if you remember we had indicated that we thought our loan growth on the upside might be as much as 4% a quarter ago.
We've raised that slightly to 5% today.
But we think we've got -- we think we've got the opportunity to do that and we're optimistic about it.
David you like to comment on that? Yes.
I think if you look at commercial real estate in particular multi-family and the homebuilding portfolios look strong.
We're sure comfortable with those going into 2014.
Grayson talked about the other parts of C&amp;I but the consumer side is getting better for us as well as our home equity loan product is just about to take care of the declines we've seen in the home equity lines.
Our indirect auto continues to be a nice growth story for us as we continue to expand on dealerships and our penetration within those dealers.
Our credit card continues to grow as well so we're feeling good about a broad array of loan increases and production leading us into 2014.
Yes I mean if you look the big thing I would say is we're seeing more diversified demand both across lending segments and across markets.
It's broader and more diversified than it was a quarter ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> David you mentioned that you thought the expenses in 2014 were going to be lower than 2013's adjusted expenses.
What's the adjusted expense level we should use for 2013 to measure against for 2014? Yes Gerard that number is $3.4 billion $3.433 billion to be exact that you could calculate off of our supplement taking all the adjustments out.
So it's working off that number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow up.
On the LCR ratio I think you said that you're well-positioned to have -- to be fully compliant.
Does that state that you're there already meaning that you don't need to put more liquidity on the books that could pressure the margin if you were to do that to become fully compliant? We are quite at 100% today as that number bounces around a little bit we're pretty close to 100%.
But we're close enough and feel confident enough that there's not a lot of restructuring we have to do with regards to being in compliant with the rule is effective.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that would imply that we should not hear any margin -- some of your peers the reason I ask this is is some of your peers have pointed out that margin pressure in '14 will develop because of becoming fully compliant with LCR.
We should not expect that from you guys is that correct? We expect our margin to be relatively stable all in through everything that we have to do.
So perhaps we're a little unique.
But remember stable margin for us we've kind of giving guidance.
So that's 1 or 2 points either side of where we are.
And we're sticking with that even though the LCR is out there.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give us some more color on your expectations for the efficiency ratio.
We saw some good progress this quarter and wanted you to give your thoughts on the 2014 outlook for that metric as well as how you would think about it on a longer-term normalized basis? Yes John this is David.
As we've -- we've been mentioning on our calls we are looking very closely at our efficiency ratio and positive operating leverage as well.
You notice our efficiency ratio went up to 67 points and change last quarter.
We had talked about working that down into the lower 60s without a rate increase and we think with a rate increase we can be in the 50s.
Our goal ultimately is in that 55 to 59 range but we acknowledge we can't get there without a rate change a rate increase.
But while we're waiting for that we do expect us to continue to drift down during 2014 into the lower 60s.
We've made investments in people and technology.
They're the cause of our short-term -- our expenses to increase.
But we expect the revenue to come with that and as a result we expect that efficiency ratio to continue to drift down.
We've really looked at our efficiency more from a long-term perspective.
We don't get so caught up on a quarter-to-quarter change but that's kind of the broad guidance that we think over time we can get it to.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then also my second question just around expenses as well do you have the quantification around the likely savings that you can get from the 30 branch closures on a combined basis? We really hadn't quantified the savings from those 30 branches.
I will tell you you heard the number we had about $5 million that we're going to incur this quarter we'll have some more related to people cost that you can't accrue until that time.
But we expect to pay back in less than a year on these type of expenses and we're constantly looking at all areas of our company in terms of becoming more efficient.
It is part of who we are and what we do and we'll make -- take appropriate actions when we can see the benefit of that is -- the payback is relatively quick.
Yes.
And I would just to add I mean closing branches is a very public action but internally there are a number of expense-save initiatives that we're working on.
Clearly even within the branch channel we're working on a number of efficiency programs that allow the branches that we have to operate at a lower cost basis and trying to improve both the utilization of all of our channels so that we get efficiency across the methodologies that we service our consumers on.
We realize that 2014 is still going to be a year where expenses are very important.
And so we'll continue to have a number of internal initiatives that look at staffing look at workflow look at the way we handle all of our operational processes to improve that overall efficiency ratio.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
With CCAR coming up just was wondering if you can give us an update on your capital return priorities.
I know buybacks were a big part of it last year but the stock is higher versus tangible book now compared to last year.
And if you can just give us a list of where you think those priorities sit today.
Sure Kevin.
As we think about capital we really want to use the capital we have to grow our business we think that's what the shareholders gave it to us for.
That being said we acknowledge we'd like to get our dividend closer to where peers are which has been in that 25% payout on income.
We didn't want to use of the rest of the capital to growth whether that -- growing loan portfolios we've talked about acquiring a portfolio like we did our credit card book and other acquisitions if there are opportunities that arise.
And when we can't utilize all of our capital efficiently in those activities returning it to the shareholders is important.
Because we don't want it to build up and have trapped capital to build up on the balance sheet.
So having an appropriate return in the form of a buyback to the shareholders is certainly something that we've looked at.
As you know we just filed our plans so we need to let the process work.
We really have a very robust capital planning process the output which happens to be at times a couple of regulatory filings called CCAR and DFAST but our capital planning process is built around the efficient use of that capital and getting the most appropriate risk-adjusted return on that capital.
And that's what we've done.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
If you can just talk about timing of the transfer of those resi mortgages to held-for-sale now? And is that more a statement about the improvement you've seen in those -- in the housing market? There's more of a market for those loans today or just being teed up going into 2014 with that in the rearview mirror.
Yes.
It's a good question.
We had a couple of things working for us.
When the market for assets is pretty strong these were accruing first lien residential mortgage loans.
But they were TDRs and that's a designation that causes a little more of a charge when you go through the FDIC calculation.
And mathematically if you took a look at the return on capital by holding those in our portfolio versus how we could improve the return on proceeds from a transaction we felt that was the best thing for us to do at this time.
We have not executed that transaction.
We expect to do so in early 2014.
But as a result of making that decision not to retain those in the portfolio required us to move them to held-for-sale and take a mark on those to our estimate of fair value which is what we did in the later part of the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First I just like to hit on the 2014 noninterest expense guidance again here.
So if the annualized adjusted 4Q run rate was $3.5 billion and the '13 run rate was $3.4 billion with the guidance now south of $3.4 billion this implies about a $100 million plus delta year-over-year.
I'm just wondering what are the biggest pieces here? Maybe you can give us some color in terms of the biggest pieces and maybe give us some sense of magnitude.
Craig let me help you with the start point I think it's about $3.4 billion -- $3.433 billion should be your start point based on what we've released and we believe that we can come under that number.
And it's really no one thing.
It's just a continued focus on every one of our expense categories.
Obviously our top 3 expenses are salaries and benefits occupancy and furniture and fixtures.
But there are other expense categories underneath those that we continue to focus on and make sure -- while we hadn't come up with an expense initiative that we require all of our leaders to really take a look at the expenses they have in their businesses and make sure they're being as efficient as they can be.
So you really can't look at one area and it's just a -- it's a little bit here and little bit there and over time it adds up.
If you look over the past several years we've been able to do this because of this kind of cultural -- a crunch to expense management and you'll see that again in 2014.
I think when you get your start point the number is not as -- is not your start point that you had.
But I think we just have to -- in this environment until we see the results of more sustainable growth and a different interest rate environment we just got to stay very diligent and very rigorous on expense management.
And to David's point we haven't done a branded expense program but what we have done is we have literally dozens of expense initiatives across the company and we have invested an awful lot in technology to improve efficiencies and workflow across all of our operating units.
We still believe that there's opportunities for us to improve the efficiency.
We've been working on this for a great long time and when you look at our expense metrics by almost any measure we delivered some really good efficiencies relative to our peer group.
Some of our biggest challenges are on the revenue side.
And so we're trying to work on both we are trying to have a balanced perspective on it.
And that's why we invested in people this past year to try to improve our revenue generation because while we want to continue to be rigorous in our management of expenses we do realize some spending is necessary to generate revenue growth.
And so we have a very balanced perspective on it.
But given where we are at today we still believe we have identified enough areas that allow us to continue to drive our expenses down on a same cost basis year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> And just as my follow-up here.
I just want to separate your expectations for overall earning asset growth next year versus this 3% to 5% loan growth guidance.
So if loans are growing in a 3% to 5% range but if you noticed your deposit growth has not been positive should we expect to see modest declines in the securities portfolio to fund that and will the LCR even allow that? Or is it more likely that deposits will grow next year and potentially could grow from higher costing deposits like CDs? Yes I think Craig one of the things that you saw was the level of higher cost CDs that as we lowered the cost some of those did not -- we did not retain those in the bank and so that worked against our earning asset growth that we had.
We do have a little over $4 billion of CDs maturing next year but we don't have the price differential on those that we had in '12 and '13.
So we don't see the retention issue with those like we just saw.
So we don't see that working against our earning asset growth.
I think the primary driver on earning assets in total will be the loan growth that we're talking about.
And so we think we've hit the bottom of earning assets right -- right now.
Remember last year we also did some deleveraging and had some liability management activities in our bank and holding company that also worked against us on that measure.
But we think we'd grow from here.
Yes well I mean our loan deposit ratio at roughly 81%.
During '13 we made some very strategic decisions related to deposits.
We have reduced our reliance on more expensive forms of deposits in particular time deposits are down to 12% of the total portfolio.
But we also took a very different strategy on other high-priced sources of deposit such as public funds.
And so we have -- we've seen the mix.
Our mix -- our overall deposits have not grown in '13.
We did see a real favorable shift in the mix of those deposits and are very pleased with where we stand today.
So from a deposits standpoint we're feeling pretty good about our position.
Your next question comes from Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question is could you just shed some light on the CCAR process in terms of -- under stress do the regulators treat a TDR similar to any performing loans or they treat it worse? And I guess the real just as a question is is the derisking in your TDR portfolio reflected in your submission for this year's plan? Let me answer a little different than you asked because we want to be careful about what we turn into our supervisors.
We have a capital plan and our derisking relative to TDRs is not just the impact of capital although that is true.
TDRs are treated adversely by us and the way we look at capital.
So I think that as we think about derisking you also have to look at the cost associated with maintaining a TDR in particular as it relates to FDIC insurance.
Those are punitive in the calculation.
And so being able to derisk helps us from an earnings standpoint and the expense discussion that a few folks have asked us about this morning you'll see the benefits of that coming through in 2014.
But those derisk our credit portfolio.
It accelerates the pace of that somewhat but the economics are the primary driver.
Research Division</strong> And so the follow-up to that is in theory if this were included in a submission you have a derisked balance sheet from a TDR perspective as these are sold.
But not just that the cushion for your PPNR should also improve under stress because of the administrative costs that go away.
Is that the right takeaway to assume if it was in the submission? That's right.
The cost to carry these are punitive in all of our -- whether it'd be your base or your 2 adverse runs.
So being able to strip that cost out and have the assets the proceeds reinvested in assets that don't attract as much capital and generate more PPNR is what we're trying to do and we think we accomplished that.
Your next question comes from the line of the Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is the first question.
To go back to the discussion about the headcount I think you had mentioned 2 broad categories: one compliance; and the other customer facing.
And I was hoping just to get a little more clarity.
What was the rough mix of compliance versus client facing? And then if you could give us some insights into which specific businesses on the client facing side you added headcount to maybe some geographic information that would be helpful.
Yes I'll tell you that roughly half of our headcount -- I think it's almost 60% of our headcount were in revenue-generating positions.
So we gave an example in our prepared comments.
Our financial consultants that we put into branches this year a little over 100 that we hired during the year.
And then the other parts of this were really establishing more folks in our compliance areas and risk management as we deal with some of the changes and expectations that we all have in the banking industry.
So the headcount that we've added we expect the folks we've added to pay for themselves in particular the revenue generation -- generating folks that should be paying for themselves in less than a year.
Our early read on that and our use of financial consultants as an example is we're a little ahead of schedule and we feel good about that going into 2014.
But we want to make those investments in people.
We think it's the right thing to have done as we battle the balance between generating more revenue yet watching our expenses in total.
I think that given where the industry is at and there's clearly an expectation for greater focus and resources on compliance and audit functions.
We continue to invest in all of those functions across our enterprise risk management program if you will and so we're going to continue to invest there.
We have to find ways to pay for that and we find ways to pay for that through efficiencies in other parts of the company and our additional revenue opportunities we have -- we fund by adding people or products where appropriate.
I think if you look at geographically we've added those resources opportunistically where we see advantage.
Clearly we've done -- we've seen a lot of growth across the markets that are more heavily invested in energy South Louisiana and Texas being 2 great examples of that.
But we've also saw strong growth in the auto sector and in the southeast we have a number of markets that enjoy margin plummet in the auto sector.
So it's been pretty well dispersed across our markets and we want it that way because we want that diversity.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good color.
And then just in terms of the auto business I think in your prepared comments you had mentioned that you expect a higher pull through from some technology enhancements in the auto business.
I was just trying to get a sense for what you mean exactly by pull through.
Is that more volume driven from the dealers because of the technology or just the ability to process more volume because of the technology enhancements and maybe just talk about what these enhancements are? That would be interesting.
It's all around speed of answer and quality of answer.
We've got -- we had continued to grow the number of auto dealers that we are working with partnering with.
But we have higher expectations for the volume we get through those dealers.
And in order to do that we had to invest in technology and had to invest in people in the back office to ensure that we get applications for credit.
The speed of our answers and the quality of our answers continue to improve.
We've made some pretty dramatic improvements in that.
As a result we saw very good results in that particular lending segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> David I wanted to ask you to go a little bit deeper into your comments about the investments in the fee businesses starting to get to profitability this year.
So the wealth management line it hasn't really broken out yet so to speak.
Could you give us a little favor for how you expect the fee businesses to act this year and can they more than offset the expected decline in mortgage that's just a matter of fact? Yes Ken we have -- we've just pointed to wealth management as an example.
We don't have any one business that's going to light it up and take over all the pressures that we had in mortgage.
We do believe mortgage didn't have quite the decline it had '12 to 13 as it does in '13 to '14.
We think as a matter of fact we'll be down production-wise in mortgage about 10% to 15% and we'll rightsize the expense side of that and get to a -- what will be a normalized mortgage contribution.
But wealth management we have some new products and services that we're working on.
We have the full run rate of those additions that we had the financial consultants.
So you'll see that.
We've had some improvement in our investments in insurance that we think will also be a driver.
So it's not one -- it's not just one area.
We think all those really are contributors to help offset any other negatives that we have in our NIR primarily mortgage.
Research Division</strong> Well I think the important point is those initiatives are on track.
In wealth management in particular our early results are exceeding our preliminary forecast that we made the decision upon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second quick question is just on the new deposit products and the sunsetting of Ready Advance.
Can you talk about any net revenue and income effect that you'd expect? I mean it's a little early for that.
We've made the decision to discontinue new registrations or new enrollment of that product from our customers.
That goes in effect in the morning and we are working through our transition plan now.
We have a fairly substantial group of customers who use this product and we're being very thoughtful very deliberate about how we transition them away from this product.
So we've got our product teams working on those transition plans now.
They're going to take a few weeks to finalize.
You'll have more information from us forthcoming as this matures but a part of it is trying to predicting customer behavior.
And as we offer alternative ways of meeting this customer need we're going to find out exactly how the customer responds to that and it will sort of drive the end results.
We are still committed to focusing on our customers and meeting their financial needs and we try to do that with innovative products and really a focus on strong customer service.
We'll continue to do that.
It's just that on this particular product we need to transition and focus our attention on other products in order to best serve our customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just provide an update of how asset sensitive you were at end of the year? I noticed your liquidity increased on a period end basis and can you just provide an update of how much it benefit if rates rise say 100 basis points? Yes Matt we had -- right now if you look at 100 basis points parallel shift it's about $180 million to us down slightly from where we were.
Last quarter it was about $200 million.
I think we drifted down to about $180 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately as we think about credit going forward obviously the held-for-sale actions pulls forward some charge-offs also uses some loan loss reserves.
How should we think about both charge-offs and the provision expense going forward from here? Well Matt when you look at the -- when we had this call for the third quarter we really at that point in time indicated that we thought our credit recovery would continue.
We thought the pace might moderate somewhat.
But the fourth quarter again very positive results.
It exceeded our internal early forecast and so we continue at this juncture still believe that that recovery process continues.
We -- as David said earlier there may be some volatility in a particular metric quarter-to-quarter.
We have a little bit of volatility in for example charge-offs this quarter.
We had a couple of transactions that had they gone a different direction it could have been a much better number than it was.
But you're going to see that sort of as we get down to where the -- our distressed loans are more granular in nature.
You're going to see little bit more volatility but we think the overall trends still continues.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups on the NIM outlook.
I know you've indicated that you're looking for relatively stable NIM if rates stay where they are.
Is that in reference to current rates or that's in reference to the forward curve? It is really looking at the forward cure as it exist today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if the forward curve were to shift up then that's where the NIM benefit comes from? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you give us a little understanding of how you're thinking about non-interest-bearing deposits.
I know we had a conversation earlier on the call around the fact that deposit quality has improved significantly.
But how are you thinking about what happens to non-interest-bearing deposits in an environment where the forward curve is increasing and particularly north the belly of the curve in the 3- to 5-year section? I mean it's a great question and one we're spending an awful lot of time on trying to figure out how do you forecast sort of customer behavior in a rising REIT market after you've been through several years of such low rates and there's really not a great empirical model that allows you to forecast this out.
We have built that into our liquidity plans.
We've built it in to our business plans so that we have quite a bit of variability depending on changes in customer behavior.
Anecdotally what we're seeing from our customers is just a greater propensity for both individuals and businesses to hold liquidity.
We've not seen a great movement when borrowing demands increased that liquidity diminishes to any great degree.
We're watching it closely.
I don’t think we have the answer but we absolutely realize the importance of monitoring that on a daily basis and looking for trends over each and every quarter.
David anything to add? Go ahead Betsy...
Research Division</strong> No I was just going to say it's interesting because you've highlighted that line utilization requests are up and so what you're saying is at -- those customers where line utilizations are up their deposits did not -- have not been coming down ahead of those.
On average that's true.
I mean you look at it on a customer basis you'll see a little bit of differentiation.
But still what we see both in the numbers and in conversation anecdotally is still customers being conservative and still having a desire for increased levels of liquidity as compared to what you would have seen prior to the economic crisis.
Yes Betsy I think it's a great question.
And one what we do know is you can take the history book just about toss it out the window because we've been in this low-rate environment for so long.
We all have deposits that our non-interest-bearing in particular.
We can go back and look at history.
I mean it's a data point.
We study that but we want to be careful that we don't lean too hard on history.
We're sitting here at an 81% loan-to-deposit ratio.
We think we're well-positioned for that.
We look at liquidity as being the biggest risk we face and what we want to make sure is what's the impact on profitability as other who aren't that low on loan-deposit ratio if they start seeing deposits move out what does that mean from a pricing standpoint? So I think that when we look at our forecast of liquidity we've shocked that a number of times to see what might happen and we shock it again after that just to be sure that we don't get caught in a liquidity play but we still don’t know yet exactly what that's going to mean to us.
Research Division</strong> Because then you kind of think should you have an LCR that's even above 100% at this stage of the rate cycle.
I don’t know if that's too aggressive of a comment but...
And we still have to work through LCR as we mentioned on the prepared comments.
We're pretty close to being there right now.
We don't see that being a huge driver.
It's clearly something we have to consider.
But when we need to get to the point where all that's happening if that starts to happen that means we're in a lot better economic environment than we are right at this minute.
And while it has its challenges it has its rewards that go with it as well.
So it's a great question one for all of us really to pay attention to as we get closer to that time.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Can we spend a minute on expenses again? Just curious if there's any improvement in pension expense baked into your 2014 guidance and if so how much? Yes I mean there's clearly some pension benefits.
To my knowledge we have not disclosed it at this juncture.
We're going through all of that right now and getting updates obviously discount rate changes.
We know there's a high rate environment and therefore there should be some benefit of pension expense going forward.
And that's baked into our guidance that we've given you but we hadn't been specific with disclosing that exact amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving to funding cost for a second the improved basis points this quarter you mentioned the CDs that are left repriced not much of a savings there.
Are you sort of out-of-room on the funding cost side? I wouldn't say we're out of room.
I would just say the kind of improvement that you've seen over the last 2 years for us is slowing quite a bit.
When you're 12 basis points of cost of deposits it's hard to see how that moves.
As I mentioned we have a little over $4 billion of deposits maturing next year.
It's almost about a $1 billion -- $1.1 billion each quarter.
The first quarter has the bigger benefit but I think what's coming off there is still -- it's pretty close to what's going on like 42 basis points what's going is in the 20 range.
So there's not -- there's just not a lot to pick up there.
We do have some liability management that we've done.
We'll get the full benefit of that in '14 that we executed in '13.
So you'll see some pickup there and all that added together is one of the ways that we're able to give you the stable margin guidance for '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just another follow up on the funding side of the equation.
Does stable net interest margin outlook contemplate any further liability manage actions outside of just repricing and deposits? And then related to that you noted that premium am fell to $45 million in the quarter how much premium amortization is left? What is the assumed duration of those securities today and what yields are you reinvesting today? I will tell you on the premium amortization I think our number is closer to about $700 million.
We'll flip pages and find that exact number.
That number is slowing down considerably.
What's really going on from the maturities and paydowns going back into the mortgage-backed share in that 275 range and that's kind of where we'll be.
The asset funding what was your question? Research Division</strong> Is there anything outside of deposit repricing that's contemplated in the liability management side? We really kind of run the course of the pure liability component of that.
Anything that has to do -- that's tied to capital has to go through the CCAR process.
So we need to -- we can't comment really on the capital elements of that that could -- that manifests themselves at times in interest expense.
So you have to wait until March to hear our CCAR results.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I just have one quick high-level follow-up.
David if I tied together all the guidance that you've given with -- from loan growth stable margin lower expenses is it fair to say that the operating leverage that you drive in 2014 will be more balanced between revenues and expenses relative to your I believe your prior guidance whereas it will mostly come from the revenue side? We've actually been working on operating leverage from both sides.
It's obviously a little easier to move on the expense side.
But this year 2014 we see contributions from both both revenue and expenses.
As we mentioned pretty confidently our goal is to generate positive operating leverage.
We think we have the plan in place to do that.
We could change that.
It's a very different rate environment than what we're assuming but we're fairly confident on that.
The premium by the way is $700 million of amortized which will be tied to the mortgage-backed.
So I just want to confirm that with you.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you've been a bit more upfront than some of your peers about considering doing -- making acquisition.
So in terms of getting a deal done or making an acquisition has anything changed in terms of the number of conversations you're having or in terms of the regulatory burden that you have to clear to get a deal done? I mean I haven't -- I can't comment on the comparative analysis between us and the peers.
But clearly what we're trying to do is to strengthen our balance sheet finish our derisking activities and put ourselves in position when and where opportunities present themselves and when and where they're appropriate but we really have no comment beyond that.
I still think it's early yet and that hold today [ph].
And let me clarify what you may be getting at.
The question we get often times we got it today is how do you think about capital allocation.
And so we've mentioned acquisitions as the thought process before we get to the return to shareholders.
The caveat is if and when those are available and you need to -- not that we don’t want to get the cart before the horse.
There are lot of things that need to happen in order to get to that.
We do believe acquisitions would be part of our industry.
We think it will be part of us but it will be at the right time.
And we're not trying to signal anything other than the capital allocation process on how we think about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just a couple of quick ones for David.
David you mentioned that you -- we should probably throw out the history books in terms of thinking about deposit outflow.
So let we ask the question in a slightly different way.
If you were to assume something closer to 80% of the incremental deposits you have in this cycle flowing out rather than maybe the -- rather than a historical number that's closer to 50% how much of a change would that create in your estimate of the interest rate benefit from higher rates? I don’t know if I can answer it that way.
Let me try to frame it up.
When I say throw out the history books we clearly look at what occurred last cycle but we've all had deposits that have come into our balance sheets over the past several years.
And what we think is happening is that the liquidity requirements of our customers in particular our commercial customers that have non-interest-bearing deposits we think they're not going to -- we think there's a chance that they actually keep more on deposit and leverage up more to preserve that liquidity for a rainy day.
We don't know that that will happen.
It may.
That's why we go through multiple scenarios with regards to outflows.
Clearly something out of the ordinary deposit outflows.
We shock -- we have multiple risk scenarios that we use to establish tolerance risk tolerance in the company subject to board review.
If we end up having more outflows than what we think our core is we'll have a plan to address that.
So if it's higher markedly higher then there'll be actions that we take well in advance of that occurring so that we don't get caught having to go out and put high price deposits on our books to fund ourselves.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for my follow-up in terms of the expense guidance that you provided I'm presuming that your expense number for '14 is going to be on an adjusted basis as well when we begin that comparison to the 3.43 number that you gave us.
Yes I think we put our prepared comments on the same basis.
That's what that was intended to do be clear that it's apples-to-apples.
Matt I'll go ahead and add.
We have in our base scenario for our outflows and deposits a higher percentage than our history indicates.
So I just want to point that out.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got a question going back David you've pointed out like just to revisit the expense kind of guidance again.
But if you look at the trends through the year the adjusted operating number went down from around 850 to around 830 in the -- from fourth quarter last year to mid-year.
In the mid-year to the end of the year it increased from that 830 number closer to the 888 or 890-ish type of level in the fourth quarter.
To get back down to the annual number you got to really reverse that trend and get down something close to $850 million.
So we're just making sure that the trend and the thought process of what's happened the last couple of quarters are going to reverse and quarterly we're going to see incremental declines.
Marty our guidance that we're giving you is on an annual basis and we furthermore indicated that there could be some volatility in a particular quarter.
We think looking at this as more long-term basis one year is a better indication of kind of our commitment to expense management.
You saw our increases in the second half of the year primarily due to investments that we decided to make.
We thought it was important to make investments in the revenue generation folks.
I've talked about financial results and wealth a couple of times.
We're dependent in other areas in -- that we've made those investments in.
We also are working down cost.
Cost and mortgage we've talked about cost in our branch network we'll continue to focus on.
We've looked at legal and professional fees.
We'll continue to watch that very closely.
Our FDIC cost in terms of reducing the risk in our balance sheet such that we get lower charges coming from the FDIC there.
So it's no one place but if you want to get on the run rate and you see the change that has to happen from the fourth quarter to the first if you use history it hasn't come down pretty aggressively but our commitment is for the year right now.
As we get going for the year we'll be perhaps more specific on the quarters but that's not our message today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
I'm just trying to get to the kind of benchmark you'd have to get to the full year.
And then lastly the follow-up question would be on the FDIC or deposit administration fees or expenses.
You dropped from the mid-30s to $20 million this quarter.
Is that a good run rate and does the sell of these TDRs eventually bring it lower than the $20 million per quarter that it was at this quarter so just kind of the continuation of the trend in that line item? Yes we've put in our prepared comments that we thought the run rate would be somewhere between the third quarter and the fourth quarter's number.
We did have some unusual things in this quarter that won't repeat so we're giving you guidance that would be between those 2 third and fourth.
We do in our overall expense guidance that were taken into account changes that we're making on the balance sheet which includes this quarter's transfer of loans to held-for-sale and the ultimate disposition of those.
So yes that's already been baked in our guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaston Ceron with MorningStar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly I just wanted to go back to the branch consolidation issue.
So you're cutting 30 offices.
So that should take you to around what 1 675.
I know you didn't say anything -- you didn't say I think the number of expenses associated with the offices.
I'm curious if you've released the headcount associated with those branches.
And also I thought I saw a comment sort of intra-quarter from one of your executives in one of your conferences about how something to the fact that you're always looking at branch consolidations but some of the low hanging fruit is gone given the consolidation that you have done.
So I'm curious what does this 30 office cut mean as far as anything we can expect in the future.
Well I think we've gone through a fairly extensive review of all our branch offices and are -- and we do that on a continuous basis and so the 30 consolidations that we announced in the fourth quarter shouldn't surprise anyone.
This is not new for us.
We look at our branch offices literally on a regular basis and make decisions.
If you look at remaining offices we had -- we had a little over 1 700 -- 1 705 offices.
By reducing these 30 you have to look at the remaining balance of that and about 1 600 in -- sorry if you look at full service branches we had about 1 625 of those.
A lot of those other offices that 1 705 were drive-throughs just purely drive-throughs and so you have to back out those drive-throughs to get to full service.
So even on the full service we've gone through a fairly exhaustive process looking at staffing looking at transactions looking at the kinds of technology we have in those offices and have made decisions that improve the overall efficiency of that channel.
We balance that.
We're also looking at other channels in terms of our web-based services and our mobile based services in our contact center and there is a lot of changes in customer behavior across those channels and we're finding ways to continue to serve our customers well but differently.
And so branch channels' still very relevant for a big percentage of our customers and a big percentage of our sales and we'll continue to invest in physical branch offices but we're going to do it obviously with a lot more discipline than we did we've embarked on as we've studied this issue much more closely.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I'm sorry and have you released the headcount associated with the 30 branches or no? We have not.
Not yet.
That will be a first quarter...
That will be a first quarter event.
Your final question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one how are you thinking about reserves? Levels or reserves to loans are down to 1.81%.
And especially in light of the fact that you took a fairly large 22% mark on the loans you transferred to held-for-sale and what that would imply for your ongoing provisions David [indiscernible] because your core provision were only $4 million when we exclude that portion of the mark that went to the provision line.
Yes so we're down to 1 8.
We acknowledge the charge taken on the transfer but those -- that charge is related to the fair value of the loans that exist.
And those fair values are derived by the required rate that they would have on those assets today versus that -- the yield that's on that since when they went through a troubled debt restructuring.
And if you think about a troubled debt restructuring one of the ways that you reduce that payment if you will from the individual is to reduce the rate.
So our primary mechanism of troubled debt restructuring at that time was rate reduction and/or extension in terms very little press for forgiveness.
And -- but the market is demanding a fair value rate today.
So when you calculate that that differential has to go through your reserve but that is not something that you normally can reserve for in your allowance.
So I don't think you can equate the reduction to the adequacy of the 1 8.
I will tell you as our credit metrics continue to improve including a reduction in nonperformers reduction in credit size and class size our reduction in the past dues our reduction in the transfers going into nonperforming loan coming down leaves us to believe that our reserve level will continue to decline.
We're at a charge-off of 67 basis points this quarter.
As Grayson mentioned there are a couple of things in there that cause that to be higher than what we thought it might be which was continue to be lower than that number.
So we see charge-offs continuing to come down but maybe see volatility in here.
But we feel good about where we're reserving and then our provision will continue to be lower as a result of that credit -- "credit leverage" that we have in the reserve but we'll have to see.
Research Division</strong> Yes in light of that though David if you take out that $151 million mark your net charge-offs of $127 million and your provisioning your core provision was $4 million so how should we think about going forward even if that $127 million comes on where does that $4 million trend to? Well we'll have to see how things settle out in terms of the ultimate reserve levels.
But we do expect that $127 million to continue to come down as a whole again with some volatility.
Where it stops and where the terminal point is we'll have to see.
We would argue that it wouldn't be sustainable that it will be $4 million every single quarter.
But given our reserve levels compared to how our credit metrics are trending makes us feel good that we have the right reserve levels today and how low they can go we're just going to have to see.
Research Division</strong> And Grayson I have a follow-up for you.
The loan growth that you said you raised by 1% is that just reflecting the loan because you sold about 1% of loan? Is that simply that's what's being reflected there? It's actually -- it's we went and looked at our expectations of GDP growth for next year slightly higher than we had a quarter or so ago.
We feel incrementally better about that.
And as a result of that in talking to our business groups and team leaders we felt that an increase from the 2% to 4% that we had indicated a quarter or so ago that 3% to 5% was a better indicator of what that percentage of increase could be.
Research Division</strong> But then when you -- given that you did sell 1% of loans would that mean that some dollar amount delta that didn't really change that much right? Yes it's because the base is so large.
It's just not that big of a change.
There are no more questions and so we thank you for your time and attention on this call and we'll stand adjourned.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I will be your operator for today's call.
I would like to remind everyone that all participant phone lines have been placed on listen-only at the end of the call there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation this morning on our call.
Our presenters today are Grayson Hall our Chief Executive Officer; David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of management are here and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our call today we’ll be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
With that said I will turn it over to Grayson.
Jr.</strong> Good morning we appreciate your interest in Regions and participation in our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Today we reported earnings of $311 million or $0.22 per diluted share a solid start to 2014.
During the quarter we grew loans we grew deposits and we grew a number of quality households all while effectively managing expenses.
On an ending basis total loans increased $1.1 billion over the previous quarter and $1.7 billion over the first quarter of last year.
Total review and reviewed loan production was up 2% year-over-year.
Importantly loan growth was more broad-based across our product lines and across our margins.
Business lending momentum continue led by growth in commercial and industrial loans.
After years of deliberately derisking investor real estate portfolio we achieved linked quarter growth.
On the consumer side loans continue to be impacted by the residential mortgage market in the first quarter.
But were somewhat offset by the growing demand for automobile loans.
In light of an improving but still challenging economic backdrop we remained focused on things that we can control such as provide a high quality customer service.
in that reward we were recently recognized by the Temkin Group as a top rated bank in the 2014 National Customer Experience ranking scoring 10 points ahead of the banking industry average.
Our team members work hard everyday listening to our customers in understanding and meeting their needs which ultimately will result in a greater customer loyalty.
We divide our markets across 16 states into 19 different areas.
And in this quarter we achieved net checking account and credit card growth in all areas.
In addition we grew quality households in all areas including consumer business and wealth management.
By adhering to our strategy reset Regions' three equity to serving our customers we were also deepening customer relationships.
We want to be the first choice in our markets when it comes to beating customers financial needs whether through quality customer service superior competitive products or enhanced alternative delivery channels.
As part of our efforts we further improved efficiency and better serve our customers we continue to rationalize our delivery channels with recent focus on our branch channel.
As you may recall we consolidated a number of offices in the first quarter.
While at the same time we invested in new technology and new service formats.
We continue to look for opportunities to improve the customer experience at our branches with innovations and technologies.
By adapting our delivery channels to how our customers want to bank we will be able to meet more their needs delivered better value and enhance loyalty.
We remained committed to continuously enhancing our risk management infrastructure.
It is the important part of our culture and it is essential to the strength and stability of the organization.
As such our asset quality continue to improve and our balance sheet is strengthening.
Our net charge-off ratio was 0.44% the lowest level since third quarter 2007.
In addition our non-performing loans continue to decline.
We’ve an ongoing and robust capital planning process that is designed to ensure the efficient use of capital while maintaining a long-term approach to capital allocation in distribution.
During the first quarter we were pleased to receive no objection to our planned capital actions from the Federal Reserve.
Our top priority capital deployment continued to be reinvesting our business to achieve organic growth followed by regional dividend payout and appropriate share repurchases.
At some point we may consider strategic opportunities consistent with the companies risk tolerance.
To sum up our first quarter’s results reflected a solid start to 2014.
We obviously still have plenty of work to do and we continue to successfully execute our business plans to create long-term value for our shareholders.
With that I’ll turn the call over to David to discuss first quarter results in more detail.
David? Thank you Grayson and good morning everyone.
Since Grayson already covered kind of overall earnings I’ll jump right into the details.
So let’s start with loans.
We achieved a solid quarter of growth with loans up $1.1 billion as any balances were $76 billion.
Loan growth continues to be driven by business lending which increased 2% from the end of last quarter.
A majority of this growth was attributable to commercial and industrial loans which increased 4%.
This was led by general industry with middle-market commercial lending across many of our market areas.
In addition we also achieved growth by our specialized industry and asset-based lending teams.
And furthermore our commercial line utilization increased 170 basis points and commitments from new loans increased 2% to $39 million.
Investor real estate loans increased $242 million from the end of the fourth quarter which marks the first time we achieved growth in this portfolio in over four years and this portfolio has been declining as a result of our de-risking efforts.
This growth was primarily attributable to an increase in new home builder and multi-family projects providing more opportunities to lend within the parameters of our risk appetite.
And we expect modest growth in this portfolio over the remainder of this year.
Indirect dollar lending achieved another solid quarter of growth as we increased the average number of loans per dealer by 13%.
Production increased 4% and loans increased $178 million or 6%.
We expect this portfolio to grow as the demand for automobiles continues to rise and due to our efforts to increase pull-through rates from the dealers.
As expected credit card balances declined following a seasonally high fourth quarter.
However we achieved the highest level of sales for new credit cards with sales up 14% in the first quarter.
Also we’ve recently expanded our offering of credit cards to non-Regions customers residing within our geographic markets.
Our home equity portfolio declined linked quarter as the pace of customer deleveraging within the home equity lines of credit was only partially offset by the new production in the home equity loan product.
This fixed rate home equity loan product continues to grow and balances increased 5% over the previous quarter.
Looking ahead based on what we know today and our economic forecast we continue to expect 2014 loan growth to be in the 3% to 5% range.
Let’s take a look at deposits.
Average deposits increased $874 million or 1% from the fourth quarter and deposit mix continues to improve than the first quarter as low-cost deposits increased to 90% of total average deposits.
Deposit costs remain at a historical level of 12 basis points and total funding costs declined to 33 basis points in the first quarter.
We continue to expect 2014 deposit growth to be in 1% to 2% range.
Let’s take a look at how it’s impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis was $831 million a decline of $15 million or 1.8% from the previous quarter.
The decline was attributable to fewer days in the quarter and the impact of the low interest rate environment on loan yields.
However the net interest margin remained steady from the previous quarter at 3.26% largely reflecting the offsetting impacts of higher tax balances and declines in premium amortization in our investment portfolio.
We remain asset sensitive and would expect to benefit from increases to both short-term and long-term rates primarily due to our adjustable rate loan portfolios.
Further increases in long-term rates would continue to benefit the margin but at a somewhat reduced pace given the prepayment and premium amortization have already slowed considerably.
Recently declines in deposit costs liability management actions and increases in long-term rates off their mid-2013 lows have more than offset margin pressure due to a continued low rate environment.
These offsets however will have a lessened impact going forward.
That said with rates remaining at approximately their current level and with our expectation for balance sheet growth we expect to maintain a relatively stable margin in 2014.
Let’s move onto non-interest revenue.
First quarter non-interest revenue was down $88 million from the previous quarter.
However as a reminder the fourth quarter included benefits of $56 million related to leveraged lease terminations and the sale of investments and low-income housing that were not repeated at the same magnitude in the first quarter.
Services charges were down 7% linked quarter and were driven by lower seasonal trends and continued changes in customer behavior.
As expected mortgage income was lower linked quarter as production was down 22% and the mix of new mortgages continued to be driven by new home purchases.
Capital markets income declined in the first quarter to $13 million and was primarily attributable to a slowdown in demand for customer derivatives and loan syndications which were seasonally high in the fourth quarter.
Our Wealth Management Group delivered strong results for the quarter.
Revenue was up 6% over the last quarter led by higher investment services fees higher insurance commissions and solid increases in investment management and trust income.
We continue to add high quality wealth investors financial consultants and insurance brokers to help uncover and meet the needs of our clients.
Let’s take a look at expenses.
Adjusted non-interest expenses totaled $846 million in the first quarter down 4% linked quarter.
The fourth quarter included a $58 million regulatory charge and $5 million of expense related to branch consolidations.
Additionally as you’re all aware last quarter we transferred $686 million of primarily accruing first lien residential mortgages classified as troubled debt restructurings to held for sale.
We finalized to sell these loans during the first quarter and actual expenses were $35 million less than originally estimated.
Salaries and benefits declined $9 million or 2% linked quarter.
In the first quarter payroll taxes were seasonably higher but were more than offset by lower employee benefits and headcount.
Staffing levels have declined from the end of last year due to branch consolidations and other efficiency initiatives.
Additionally legal and professional fees declined $11 million or 24% from the previous quarter.
And you may remember that last quarter we announced plans to consolidate 30 branches and incurred a $5 million related charge.
An additional $6 million of expense was reported this quarter with respect to that effort related primarily to lease branches.
So overall expenses remain a constant focus and internally receive a great deal of scrutiny.
As a result we continue to expect full year 2014 adjusted expenses to be lower than 2013 adjusted expenses.
Let’s do on the asset quality we continue to make good progress in the first quarter as all our credit metrics improved.
Net charge-offs totaled $82 million which represents 0.44% of average loans.
This is the lowest net charge-off ratio we have experienced since the third quarter of 2007.
The provision for loan losses was $2 million or $80 million less than net charge-offs.
Our non-performing loans declined 1% linked-quarter and inflows of non-performing loans remain steady.
At quarter end our loan loss allowance to non-performing loans or coverage ratio was 118%.
Notably criticized and classifieds loans continued to decline with commercial and investor real estate criticized and classified loans down 1% from the fourth quarter.
Additionally total delinquencies decreased 9% linked-quarter.
And based on what we know today we expect favorable asset quality trends to continue.
However at this point of the cycle volatility in certain metrics can be expected.
Let's take a look at our capital and liquidity.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at the end of the quarter stood at 11.9%.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio was 11.4% an increase of 20 basis points from the fourth quarter.
We estimate our fully phased-in Basel III common ratio Tier 1 ratio to be 10.8% well above the minimum threshold.
Liquidity at both the bank and holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 81%.
And lastly based on our understanding of the proposed rule Regions remain well-positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
As Grayson mentioned we were pleased with our overall CCAR results and a Federal Reserve having no objection to our plan of capital actions.
So in summary we off to a good start in 2014 and importantly our first quarter results demonstrate that our focus on identifying and meeting more customer needs is generating steady and sustainable growth overtime.
Consistent with our Regions 360 approach we believe that if we remain focused on our customers have an engaged work force and continue to make positive impact to our communities then ultimately we will drive long-term shareholder value.
With that I’ll turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning I would ask that each caller please limit yourself to one primary question and one related follow-up question.
Let’s open up the line now for questions.
(Operator Instructions) You have a question from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Kevin.
LLC</strong>  Good morning Grayson.
And it would appear with your current loan growth guidance and the current dividend and the share repurchase that's been approved that capital will continue to grow this year beyond that 11% Basel III Tier 1 common.
And it looks like your total payout ratio is going to be in the 55% to 60% range.
Do you anticipate if things go as planned that you would get more aggressive with next year's CCAR? Or how should we think about that?   Yes Kevin this is David.
So we put together our capital plan based on what we believe to be the right thing to do.
We laid down our priorities just like we’ve spoken about that a number of times of first why do we use our capital to generate organic growth and to support our businesses we believe that’s what capital was given to us for and the generation of new capital should be used for organic growth.
We also then want to get our dividend up some and more consistent with the peer group and you’ve seen a movement there.
Our next priority is really use the capital in the business the smartest way we can and that includes transactions like growing portfolios.
So we are acquiring a credit card portfolio.
We’ve looked at and continue to look at acquisition opportunities whether they be banks or non-banks when the market and the environments are right for that and when that does it we don’t use our capital for those items just to return to the shareholder.
So that the capital then continue to pile up on the balance sheet.
we do it every quarter and we’ll make adjustments that is being appropriate.
Jr.</strong> Kevin this is Grayson I would characterize our capital plan as either aggressive or conservative.
We try to put together a plan that we believe is appropriate for the opportunities we see in the market to the extent that the economy outperforms our forecast or to the extent that some of the opportunities we believe that exist don’t prove that and we accumulate more capital than we had anticipated then we’ll make a different but also still an appropriate discussion for next year’s capital plan.
So as the economy matures and see what happens we adjust but we are hopeful that we have some opportunities to deploy our capital effectively this year.
LLC</strong> Thanks and just a related follow-up so assuming at some point you are going to have some reasonable buffer over 7% to one common minimum so say 8% 8.5%.
Do you anticipate a time when you are able I don’t know if this is 2015 2016 you are able to manage your capital ratios down with either a special dividend or some sort of payment total payout in excess of 100% or is this center are we in a situation where you are growing or have to organically grow into those new ratios? Jr.</strong>  No I think the capital planning process improves each and every year.
We are working on our processes continuously improving the quality of our data quality of our models quality of our forecast and as we build confidence internally and confidence externally I think the opportunities to deploy our capital more effectively will occur naturally.
We think we’ve made the appropriate call this year on our capital plan and as things mature we’ll adjust that call as appropriate.
And I do think that to your point that things continue along the path our own will continue to shrink that our capital position and be afforded opportunities to consider how we deploy that.
LLC</strong> Great thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Yes thank you very much.
On the loan growth can you talk about a little bit what are you seeing from your customers? You talk very positively about continued loan growth.
But what areas are you seeing the most interest and what are your customers telling you?  Jr.</strong> Paul let me sort of describe it this way I think what’s different this quarter from last quarter is that we saw more diversity of loan demand of both from a product perspective and from a geographic perspective I would still say that on the commercial side of our balance sheet we are still seeing more demand in the upper-end of the middle-market and in large corporate lending.
There is still more demand there than elsewhere.
The lower middle market and the small business customers still to a certain extent still recovering.
And the demand there is still softer than what you would hope at this part of the cycle.
On the consumer side the consumer has strengthened quite nicely over the last several quarters and deleveraged.
We see demand there in both as we mentioned in a moment ago in credit card and indirect auto lending and increases in home purchases in mortgage.
We have seen a big shift in our mortgage production production is down.
The home purchase is actually up we are probably at a mix of about 70% purchase and 30% refinance at this junction.
We are seeing that on the indirect auto side still a good growth.
We are having obviously being much more discipline from a credit perspective in that space.
But still see opportunities there the credit card we saw – we are offering a lot of new card accounts to customers balances are seasonally a little low at this juncture but we are pleased with the progress we are making.
I think when you look at the overall loan demand we would still like to see the diversity of that demand improve further yet.
But I would say that it made a very strong progressive move in the past quarter.
We are more pleased with how broad it is today than we were in the last time we spoke.
And a one quick follow-up on the auto side you said that you expect to increase the pull-through.
Do you think that area is getting very over competitive because you hear some banks saying that it could be getting over here? Jr.</strong> Well I think clearly the growth in that market all of our teams and risk management when they see a particular product growing rapidly and risk management disciplines requiring to start looking at that particular product sector more closely.
There is a lot of participants in the auto lending space and you are seeing growth loan demand in there particular category.
I think you have as an individual institution you have to decide what part of that markets you want to participate in.
We have drawn some pretty bright lines about we are re-participate we believe we can do that and still show growth.
And we are still very confident in the production replacing all our balance sheet.
Paul this is David I will add to that.
One of things we think about indirect is who we are doing business dealership that we are doing business with.
Now we have today about 2 000 dealers that we do business with normally 8 000 that are actually in our geographic marketplace.
So only about 25% of those that we are banking in today.
I think that dealership election is very important for us and we are building the relationship that we need the speed of action that we need and we feel very good about that credit.
Hey thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from Keith Murray of ISI.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Keith.
Thanks good morning guys.
Now just touching on the fee line items for a second if you look at the service charges on deposits were down 6% year-over-year.
You guys talked you had pretty good growth in checking accounts can you just talk about the dynamic that’s going on there on a year-over-year basis.
Jr.</strong> I will make a couple of comments then ask David to come on as well.
Clearly what we are seeing is from a service charge perspective first quarter is typically seasonally soft and as you compare against the same time last year this year we are softer than last year.
We do believe part of that was weather related but we also believe part of that is shifts and consumer behavior the consumers in much better shape from a financial perspective than they were a year ago.
And we are seeing much more discipline on the part of the consumer in terms of how they manage their accounts both from making sure they maintain balances necessary to overwrite any service charges amount that occur as well as discipline around over drawing those checking accounts.
And so we’re seeing a real marketed improvement in how customers are managing their checking accounts.
That being said we still – we still are encouraged by the number of new quality accounts that we are adding to our balance sheet.
And believe that there is an opportunity for us to continue to grow that part of our business going forward.
Yes I think Grayson is right on the growing the number of customers I think it is going to be important to us.
As we look at our customer base really want to build deep relationships with those customers we offer advice guidance and education to these customers to help them with all of our banking products.
And we think we’ve seen a change in the customer behavior not only in the industry a service charge down in industry but we see at Regions as well which we think is a good thing.
We think we have a good quality customer base and we are looking to develop those new products that will serve our existing customer base as well as new households that we are growing so all-in-all we have seen a decline in place like overdraft fees but looking to gain on the different service charges and different products that we offer.
Thanks.
I was just going to ask the follow-up along those lines on the deposit advance product which you’d be willing to give us sort of a revenue number that you might be giving up and give us more color on the traction that you have seen articles in American Banker et cetera you guys are making progress adding any consumers from tiered pricing et cetera.
Just how much traction are you seeing there on the replacement type products? Jr.</strong> I think that clearly what you’ve seen is that we are transitioning away from that particular product and since the first of the year we not being adding any new customers for that particular product.
And we are seeing normal customer attrition out of that product over the next couple of quarters.
We will be offering a number of different transitional alternatives to our customers.
It’s a little early for us to give you the benefit number on what the revenue impact will be because we need to see how some of these transition strategies how effective they are.
We are hopeful that we can transition a number of these customers to more traditional credit based products but that’s yet for us to prove.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Jr.</strong> Hi Eric.
Inc.</strong> Thanks very much.
Hi good morning.
In terms of the credit experience was there anything sort of interesting or unusual going on with respect to recoveries particularly in the commercial space?  Jr.</strong> Yes nothing unusual that we see – we went into de-risk a lot of credit during the tough times and we sold some credit too.
So the recovery opportunities are still clearly are there but we are seeing some recoveries but nothing unusual has cropped up that we are seeing.
Yes.
We actually look at the – put the recoveries on a year-over-year basis.
Recoveries are relatively flat on a dollar basis and given our lower non-performing loan base on a percentage basis recoveries are actually up to be broad-based amongst all of the category particularly in commercial is what we are seeing those recoveries coming fast.
Jr.</strong> But nothing unusual this quarter on recovery is tracking about as we would have expected.
Inc.</strong> And then just my related follow-up just sort of steps back for a moment if on a core earnings basis we annualized the quarter to about $0.85 of earnings but with virtually no provision presumably as that number moves back towards some sign of normalized range.
What offsets the impact of the higher credit loss experience range for the P&amp;L? Well the increases that we see coming it’s a timing issue right.
So we continue to have no higher reserve covers than our peers so little more credit leverage left relative to peers.
We see economic expansion coming at some point in time a higher rate environment at some time.
So that overall generally increases an economic activity will lift our NII and lift our NIR and execution on our Regions 360 which is a needs based program to bring the entire bank to our customer base.
Those are the main areas we see in terms of growing our revenues streams to mitigate what a normal provision would be the amount at which we can’t tell you today because credit is going on the books today as still the most pristine credit we looked at regions and in the industry over time.
So it’s really a timing issue that’s hard to tell you exactly how and what dollar amount offset would be.
Jr.</strong> So the credit quality continues to improve and continues to improve with a pace that generally outpaces our internal projections for that.
So we’ve been pleased by that encouraged by that the portfolio as David said our loan portfolio today is a much stronger much better diversified portfolio that we’ve had in the past.
To your point is that if you are showing no growth and that credit leverage goes away you got a huge – huge gap to fill but you do have to recognize the growth on one hand we are trying to achieve and at the same time the expense management does once that we put in place to continue to try to drive towards a good earnings result as credit leverage dissipates.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning John.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning.
On that three topic can you just remind us what do you think is adequate long-term loan loss reserve ratio at Regions to the improving – much improved tech environment.
Yes John this is David.
So it’s a great question we try to – we have given a range before then we talked the reserve would be in that 1.5 2 range clearly credit has been more pristine that are longer than we had originally anticipated when we put that out.
I think we are 44 basis points worth of loss today.
We see that range drifting south.
It’s hard to tag that is that total point on the low end.
And I think our best guidance we can give you is we have a pretty good model that we feel comfortable with and we got to let that model work each in every quarter.
And it will be what it is.
With that being said if you look at the credit metrics we see it going south of that range.
And where it ends up is your guess from there.
Jr.</strong> Only credit quality is going to drive that number and we stay focused on our methodologies our process modeling credit losses and we’ve got to make sure that those processes have a lot of rigor lot of discipline around them.
Unlike David it’s hard at this juncture to definitively tag where those ratios might eventually land.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right and then separately one of you can talk a little bit about the very modest decline in loan yields that we saw in the quarter.
But specifically if you can give us some color on the new money yields where you’re booking new loans at this point versus the current portfolio yields? And then separately how that comes into play in terms of your margin outlook for relatively stable margin is that implied do you expect loan yields to holding in there if not hit higher yield of thanks.
Yes John.
Thanks so as you mention we expect our margins to be relatively stable for the remainder of the year.
And we define that as one or two points either side of the 326 we have today.
I’ll see a prolonged low interest rate environment puts more pressure on loans as old loans higher priced or fixed rate loans mature and new loans go on the books.
And from a pricing standpoint clearly there is pressure on pricing in the loan portfolio in particular on the commercial side.
But we believe that pricing has been – we’re booking relatively stable there.
You saw a slight decline in loan yields for us.
Mixed changes with loans can’t make a difference where there is a consumer loan or commercial.
And clearly we grew most of our loan growth that was in the commercial space.
But those spread have been in the 225 to 250 range.
They are kind of holding in there it’s being on the credit that you’re putting on the books.
And so I think you should expect with the rate environment where we are right now.
That you’ll see some modest impression on loan yields.
We have had as you know deposit and liability management strategies to help offset the funding costs.
Now we are down to 33 basis points of funding.
And so all that’s been taken into account on the margin guidance that we gave you.
With all that said if the rate environment stays lower or longer than we expect we will have margin compression.
Right now we still are confident enough to give you the guidance on a stable margin going forward for 2014.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Jr.</strong>  Hey Ken good morning.
Hi good morning Grayson.
Can I ask you guys a question about expenses and efficiency? This quarter was another good result for expenses that even included the FICA balance.
So I’m wondering if you can help us understand how much was that elevated first quarter bump.
And then also how you expect the trajectory of both dollars and/or even the efficiency ratio as we go through the year.
Jr.</strong>  Ken so if you look at our efficiency ratio our efficiency ratio actually ticked up just a bit in the quarter.
I would tell you that’s more of a revenue side of the equation than the expense side although we focus pretty intensely on expenses during the quarter.
That being said I believe that as you think about the remainder of this year on the efficiency ratio I mentioned it last quarter.
We’re sticking with it.
We believe the efficiency ratio will tick down from where it is today and we think it will finish in the year in the lower 60% range.
So we had a lot of pluses and minuses.
We had incentives we had pension we had FICA.
All that Ken is taken into account in terms of that go forward guidance in terms of the lower 60% range for efficiency this year.
Okay.
And as my follow-up on that then can you help us understand then approximately like what was at least a FICA balance? I would presume that tension was a helper.
So I would presume that $846 million adjusted included that seasonal spike.
I’m just wondering if you could help us understand how much that would have been and do we then presume that we trail off of that from here? Jr.</strong> I think in total if you look at dollars it’d be in that $11 million to $12 million range for payroll.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Jr.</strong>  Okay.
Your next question will comes from the Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Betsy.
Hi good morning.
Couple of questions; one on the loan growth.
I know you gave the 3% to 5% guidance.
And that seems like a relatively wide range as you’re sitting here given what you saw into March and what you are booking right now.
Is there a reason why you can’t tighten that range a little bit from what you gave previously? Jr.</strong>  I think as we look at it right now we’ve given guidance on the 3% to 5%.
Clearly we’re one quarter into the year.
We think we had some encouraging group in the first quarter.
Our pipelines are healthier today.
We’ve seen some real optimism in the last say six weeks or so as some of the weather-related issues have dissipated.
I would say we’re not at the point yet that we feel comfortable with tightening up that forecast.
Clearly as the year progresses we will gain confidence in that but at this juncture we still believe the 3% to 5% range is appropriate.
Okay.
And then I’m just thinking about it in the context of how it impacts the NIM in line with the prior question.
As you are looking out on the NIM you talked a bit about the loan yield impact but what about the cost of funds? Are there things you could do incrementally on that side as well? You've got some high-cost debt outstanding some sub-debt.
Is there anything that you could do there to lower the funding costs? Jr.</strong> Yes Betsy we continue to look at for opportunities when it’s economical to rationalize our funding side.
You've seen the actions we’ve taken up to now on repaying some of our debt.
The math really has to hold up for us so we look at it everyday.
We realize we have some expenses debt out there.
And so it’s on our radar screen but we do want to make sure that it’s economical when we do it and that’s probably been the biggest hold up there.
Okay.
And by economical you're talking about impact of whatever swaps hedges? We’re a reasonable payback in terms of the cost that we’re going to incur the one-time charge to capital in income statement and capital and how quickly does – that we get payback to that.
Okay.
In other words not refinancing it but just taking it down? We’re refinancing it cheaper (Multiple Speaker) or taking it out completely either way.
Jr.</strong> Either way.
I mean there is still –the math is still the same.
Yes okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Ryan.
Good morning Grayson.
If I can ask two unrelated questions first is when I look at the capital market side it was down over 50% in the quarter.
And you did call out a slowdown in syndicated loan volumes and customer derivatives post a strong 4Q.
But even beyond that it does look like the slowdown was beyond prior quarters.
So how should we think about the bounce back from here? Do you expect that we should run at a similar rate to the current quarter or do you think we should move back towards the higher level we were running pre-4Q? Jr.</strong> I think at this juncture when we look at this Ryan we have a strong Q4 and we had a strong 4Q and then we had softness in the first quarter more softer than we had anticipated but nice recovery in the latter part of the quarter.
And we still are pretty optimistic about sort of where it goes from here.
That being said I think the biggest change we saw was how much broader loan demand was across markets and product.
And in particular we pivoted on investor commercial real estate which has been a declining portfolio for a number of quarters and actually have some reasonable growth this quarter in that segment.
So I think that as you look out in upcoming quarters we still believe that there's an opportunity for us to continue to grow our loan portfolio.
Our goal is to do that in a diversified and prudent manner.
Ryan I'll add on the specific to the capital markets with regards to what was happening.
If you go back to the fourth quarter you’ll see a very different rate environment one where the 10-year there was increasing people were using derivatives a lot more than they did in the first quarter.
So the first quarter rates declined quite nicely and as that happened people were not – were willing to run a little more interest rate risk than they would otherwise.
So I think all things being equal as we expect rates to continue to climb – the pace of which is uncertain that as that expectation of a rate increase is coming you would expect clients the demand more the use of derivatives and therefore big driver of our capital market revenue 0.4.
Got it.
And then you did a nice job early on outlining how you think about capital allocation and capital return.
But if I could just dig a little bit deeper – Grayson can you share your philosophy or priority in terms of how you are thinking about your risk tolerance for strategic transactions? And what in particular is it that you are looking for? Is it improving density across certain MSAs building out the wealth management channel? And you guys obviously haven't done a big deal since AmSouth.
Just be helpful if you could just refresh what are your parameters in terms of return hurdles and risk parameters.
Jr.</strong> When you look at capital allocation it sort of what we are looking at in terms of growing the company.
We are looking forward to diversify our strategy it doesn’t place a huge debt on any portion of our capital but it actually places incremental bids in different parts of our business.
You’ve seen us allocating not only capital but resources to our wealth management sector to try to grow that sector out try to create a more diversified revenue stream for the company.
And but also create new revenue streams that we weren’t previously enjoying.
I also think we look at that philosophically the same way we’ve a number of markets that we are very dominant in but we also have a number of markets where our franchise is limited that we love to see overtime has garnered the ability to expand the density of our franchise in those markets.
I do think we are looking for incremental opportunities that add up to be material as opposed to looking for transformational kind of opportunities.
Thanks for taking my question.
Your next question comes from Brian Foran of Autonomous Research.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Brian.
Hi good morning.
I wondered if I could come back to the loan yield question and maybe come at it from the other side which is on – if I look back two years ago your loan yields were materially below the industry average about 40 bps at least on the way I measure it.
And if I look today you are kind of in line – and especially over the past year.
While there has been price compression it's just – with every bucket except credit card your price compression has been a lot less than the industry.
How much of that is conscious repricing efforts on your part? How much of that is the markets or the borrower mix shift? Or just why aren't you seeing the same magnitude of price compression on the lending side that’s some of your peers are? Jr.</strong> Well I think I’ll answer in a couple of ways.
Then I’ll ask John Asbury our Executive in charge of Business Services just sort of add to it.
I would say when you look at our portfolio that generally going into the recession we had more variable rate notes than we did fixed rate as relative to peers.
And I also think if you look at our portfolio on the consumer side we had an equity line portfolio that was priced materially below peer.
And so as you look at it today you are seeing on the consumer side generally speaking loans that are going on our portfolio were priced higher and loans that are maturing off from our portfolio on the business side we had to make some very specific decisions about in which markets and which more products that we will compete both on price and structure.
We believe we’ve been rigorous and disciplined in that regard.
But generally speaking corporate balance sheets are in better shape.
And so corporations that we are providing banking product today can demand appropriate pricing given the risk characteristics of their company which have improved dramatically.
And so I do think we feel pricing pressure in our markets.
We see that and we are trying to compete against that by competing on value of relationship as opposed to competing on price.
That doesn’t mean that we aren’t subject to pricing price.
But that does mean and I think that going into the recession we didn’t have as much discipline around pricing as we should have.
We think we’ve largely corrected that and we believe we’re in better place today in terms of what we’re adding on to our books.
But I’ll ask John Asbury to speak to that.
Grayson you summed up very well.
First thing I’d point to was your first point which is we don’t run a large fixed-rate book.
We’re about three-quarters variable rate.
And so we did not have to deal with run-off of higher-yielding fixed rates to the same degree as many of our peers did we believe over the course of the past couple of years.
So that will be one issue.
The second is they’re same question.
I mean we put pretty powerful disciplines in place in terms of – in sending and holding bankers accountable for pricing the loans.
We did not have a price-driven strategy.
That is how we choose to compete.
So yes we need to be competitive.
We use third-party benchmarking services.
We have a lot of mechanisms that cause the bankers to want to make sure that we’re paid appropriately for the extension of credit and honestly I think those are the two big drivers from the business services perspective.
Jr.</strong> I’ll add two other things.
If you’re referring to the brand in terms of how we compare to our peers; two things one the use of derivative interest rate swaps to hedge that risk that John just talked about in terms of the variable.
We say the price for not having those hedges in place and that’s why our margin – and I forgot which caller had referred to our margin had been lower for some period of time.
So the maturing of the swap is more prevalent at some of our peers than it is for us.
And so as that gets unwound for them you can see the margins working towards us.
The second big thing is purchase accounting and several of the peers who also works its way through the pipeline and while there’s still some more of that accretion if you will inuring to the benefit of the margin line for some we didn’t have that.
So we had those two things swaps and purchase accounting are big drivers of why we don’t have that downward pressure as much as our peers do.
Thank you so much.
That was a real thorough answer.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Matt.
Good morning Grayson.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just two questions on the loan portfolio.
First of all you mentioned the utilization rate was up about 170 basis points.
I don’t remember you saying what the ratio was at the end of the quarter.
And I’m curious if you would provide us sort of what you think your long-term target or long-term average would be and what benefit that might generate to net interest income? Jr.</strong> Yes we'll get you the where what from to but historically we have been over 50% in terms of utilization.
And if I recall we’re in that 45% range today in terms of utilization.
So we still have room to go in terms of what it ultimately gets to.
So I guess 45 minus 170 where we work whatever that finance is.
Fair enough.
And I guess just a bigger picture question for Grayson I guess your consumer loans at this point are about 38% of total loans those would come on presuming there was normal levels of demand at higher rates than you would normally see for commercial loans.
How are you thinking about the dynamic over the next couple of years of growing the consumer loans and what benefit that might have to the margin over time and sort of how the portfolio ultimately balances out between consumer and commercial.
Jr.</strong> Yes I mean I think that David and I have publicly stated a number of times we’d love to see the mix of commercials to consumer loans more in that 50/50 range since we have been saying that over the last three or four years it’s hardly moved.
Right.
Jr.</strong> Today the consumer portfolio is about 38% and that’s in spite of the fact that we reentered the dealer indirect business.
And we repurchased back our credit card portfolio and reentered that business.
I do think we are encouraged by some of the progress we are making quite frankly the loan demand in the consumer sector still is less than in the commercial segments.
But we are still very much committed to grow on that consumer portfolio.
We think that clearly the consumer has taken a much more disciplined approach to credit today.
And we think that’s a good thing.
So do believe we have almost 4 million consumers would bank with us.
And we do believe that penetration into that book of credit products are still low relative to what we see in other peers and we do believe over time that we will be able to move the mix of consumer and commercial loans on our book has just given in this market with where loan demands at today that’s become particularly challenging.
But we do believe over time that our efforts will prove to move that number directionally towards that 50-50 basis but that’s going to take some time.
And it’s going to take a stronger consumer driven market to do that.
Thanks for taking my question.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Marty.
Good morning.
Wanted to ask you David a little bit about the net interest margin and the two factors that we haven't talked about yet which are the higher cash balances in liquid assets that you accumulated quietly finally over the last year you've accumulated about $1 billion which in my calculation is about 2 basis points on the margin that you kind of have in your back pocket that you could use whenever you so deemed necessary.
So how do you think about that and what plans do you have to deploy some of that? Marty you are right our cash balance average cash balance did go up during the quarter and there is a big driver that is our continued growth in deposits which we are always out there looking for good customer deposits.
We realized that we need to put that cash to work more efficiently which we will do.
We would like to be down in that maybe just less than $2 billion range in terms of cash balances today given that lack of a efficient functioning over night market.
So you should not see us continuing to pile up cash at the Fed and continuing to see an increase that you did this past quarter.
Jr.</strong> And that’s a positive that you didn’t get this quarter that you forget in the future and the positive that you did get this quarter was the decline in premium amortization which although rates went lower I guess cash flows and prepayments stayed low enough that you were able to reduce that amortization this quarter.
Yes that amortization was helpful to us; it was a positive in terms of our net interest margin.
The benefit that we see going forward us they are slowing of premium amortization is less and less.
There is still some positives there.
So we just have to think efficiently how we put the cash to work you spot on is just where do we put it it’s the most meaningful to us.
We probably have loan growth and to fund loan growth appropriately priced appropriate risk-weighted loan growth that’s what we are here for and if we can’t do that we put it in the investment portfolio while we weight.
I think that’s the question about deleveraging we look for opportunities there ourselves when the economics make sense.
So there are a couple of different places we can use the cash.
We just have to find the most efficient needs of it.
And Grayson a big-picture question.
When you're looking at the risk management practices that you're investing so heavily in there's one thing which says you have to comply with all the regulatory requirements.
But what is going to make Regions different? How do you see the actual tangible benefits of having better risk management? And all the things you're doing just being compliance or we really making our risk management better?  Jr.</strong> So Marty it’s a great question and it’s one the entire industry is asking our sales if it’s compliance for compliance sake I think you miss a great opportunity.
In this organization we are trying to grow risk management all the way down to the front-line making sure that our first line of defenses from risk standpoint are solid our second lines are solid and third lines are solid.
And we are driving a very strong cultural change to the company around risk management.
At the end of the day in investment we are making a risk management has to make sense from a business perspective.
It has to improve not only quality of our earnings but the consistency of our earnings I think that we are trying to strike a healthy balance.
We are in the business and taking risk but we are in the business to take improvement risk and so I think that the question we ask ourselves everyday is not how we invest in risk and compliance and audit just for the sake of being in compliance but really for how that we really change our company to make it a better company to make it a company that is a better long-term investment to our share holders and a better long-term place for customers to bank and for our team members to be involved.
And I’ll just ask Matt Lusco.
Matt’s our Chief Risk Officer right here I think it’s a great question Matt want to comment on it.
Hey Marty I’ll add to that over the last six months the loan was $59.2 billion and that’s really just more fine really don’t consider operational loss and consulting costs will back our lost revenues from opportunity costs.
That’s an incredible number compared to net charge-offs in the industry it’s only $20.7 billion.
You really do have – have to have an infrastructure to manage that.
We got an initiative and Regions if we talked a little bit about in the annual report this year called Regions ROA which stands for Risk Ownership and Awareness and that really is ensuring that we are building out strong partnership between first and second line of defense.
And Grayson said not compliance for the sake of compliance is to ensure that we are getting the maximum benefit out of all of our processes.
We are identifying some internal costs of non-compliance.
We want to track down the information is really measured so we figure it is really a comprehensive quality insurance initiative.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Marty.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Sameer.
Thanks good morning.
I just had a couple of questions.
So the first one was you provided some good commentary around loan growth being somewhat broad-based.
And I was just curious in terms of your loan commitments it looks like last quarter they increased by $500 million.
And if I'm doing my math correctly it looks like this quarter loan commitments grew by $750 million to $800 million.
And I was curious if that increase in loan commitments this quarter and indeed the loan commitment themselves –$750 million to $800 million.
If you could speak to the mix of those commitments where are you seeing perhaps increased demand? I know you had some growth finally in industrial real estate.
Is that a significant chunk of the loan commitments this quarter? Or any other specific areas you might point to as far as the loan commitments go.
I think as you look at – you look to loan growth this quarter while it was the first quarter is a long time we say a net growth on investor commercial real estate.
The good news on net growth was that while still multifamily is that largest single product out of that production we did see strong production on the other parts or other categories of commercial real estate which about 40% of our production is in multi-family 60% of our production was elsewhere scattered between single family industrial office and retail.
Retail still continues to be sort of a smallest part of that production but if there was more growth there than we’ve seen in previous quarter.
I think when you look at the commercial industrial; we really see that growth in a lot of our specialty lending groups in particular energy and healthcare.
And if you look across markets the markets in Texas and South Louisiana are growth completely strong but also we had pretty decent growth in Georgia and in north-central Alabama.
And of course Florida while Florida probably at the most challenging coming through the rescission.
We’re seeing some really positive signs coming out of certain markets in that part of our franchise.
John Asbury you like to add that? Again there is some more growth in commercial continues to be strong for us pretty well diversified.
One thing I like to see this quarter is that kind of general industries geography based commercial effort was actually the single largest driver of commercial loan growth which is good and so we still had very good performance on the specialty lending areas but it’s nice to see more of a broad based general industries you already spoke of the geographic areas from where they came.
No question we’ve been increasing commitments on the real estate side to your point pretty well diversified not just our product title we are seeing improving diversification but also we are seeing improvement in diversification of where we are financing of this products on the real estate side as well.
So that good to see that coming on line.
Okay thank you.
And then just here in terms of the auto business you talked earlier about dealer penetration.
And you mentioned that you are in 25% of the dealers that are really in your footprint so there's an opportunity out there.
Do you have a metric? How high do you think that 25% could go in the next 12 months like some sort of target? And in terms of the average loans per dealer I think in 2013 the average loans per dealer grew by more than 50%.
And I think you referenced in Q1 that increase was more like 13%.
So is that kind of the run rate we should expect over the course of this year as well as far as average loans per dealer? Just to get a sense for a couple of metrics there and how you're thinking about the next 12 months.
Thank you.
So as we think about indirect you are right.
With 25% of the dealers in our geography we are looking while we have 6 000 obviously if we go at and we really want to be particular with the dealers that we do business with.
So our strategy now is less about increasing that number as it is penetration of our existing dealers.
You referenced the increase in the number of deals per dealer per month increasing we have done it one.
So the average was one deal per dealer per month and that is up quite nicely.
The reason it was only one is remember we reentered the indirect market you have t come back and build the relationship that takes time.
And as we’ve proven ourselves and proven our technology and our service to our dealers we see penetration increasing at the existing 2 000 dealers that we have today versus growing that number.
And we do that by the service and we do that by the speed of answering that we get back to the customer which is driven by enhancements of the technology that can help us that determine an underwriting decision much quicker than manual intervention.
So that’s really the strategy going forward.
Jr.</strong> Yes I mean our goal is not to have we are not going to measure necessarily the numbers of dealers that we have signed up but the quality of those relationships and we want to sell deeper into those relationships and how more meaningful banking relationship with them.
And so what you should expect to see this year is more transactions or per dealer basis and less emphasis on just rolling numbers dealing.
Okay great thank you.
Your next question comes from Gaston Ceron of MorningStar Equity.
Hi good morning.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning Gaston.
Hi just wanted to go back to expenses for a second.
Just two quick things; one is on occupancy.
So with the number of branches coming down how should we think about that line going forward?  So occupancy is one of our top three costs that we continue to look at and you are right to point out that a lot of our occupancy cost is in our branch infrastructure.
We have right at 1 700 branches.
We continue to evaluate all of those we consolidated 30 auctions last quarter equated that in this quarter.
And so there are ways to tighten that up some I would not accept dramatic changes in our occupancy as a result of that but we’ll continue to chip away at that line item.
A lot of that cost of occupancy is fixed cost; depreciation on places that we have leases or whatever.
So the ability to drastically move that without exceeding leases and taking a one-time charge is less for us but we continue to look at that closely.
Okay.
Great that’s very helpful.
And then lastly on expenses.
You really kind of held the line here on salaries and benefits in looking at the five-quarter trend.
How should we think about that line assuming that eventually you move into a higher revenue environment? I mean how much sort of pent-up pressure is there for increases and things like that? Jr.</strong> Well there are some of the salary and benefits that are tied to revenue.
So as revenue increases you should except to see an increase in salary and benefits to pay for that revenue.
We are down in headcount through the first quarter.
Some of that is just timing related.
But we focused on making sure we rationalize our total head count which we will do over time this year.
There were some benefits that we received through our pension accounting during the year.
And so you’ll see that continue to play out through 2014.
Our commitment as we stated that front was really to ensure that we’re shooting for generating positive operating leverage.
And so we are as concerned about the increases in salaries and benefits or any other expense line.
As long as the revenue generation is there to take care of what ever increase that we have.
So there is some variability with those expense levels tied to revenue.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
Hi.
This is actually Steve Duong in for Gerard.
Thanks for taking our call.
Just a quick question.
Regarding your loan portfolio your commercial real estate mortgage owner-occupied that continues to decline.
Is that still part of the de-risking of your portfolio or is there more that we can take from there? Jr.</strong> No that’s really not part of de-risking.
If you look at the owner-occupied real estate it really performs pretty close correlation to the C&amp;I portfolio in general.
And so it – but what you’re seeing there is just a continued maturity of those notes in the pace of still what’s soft demand for that particular product.
I think as sort of economic courage returns on the part of some of our business customers you’ll see that improve but right now that is still a softer part of our lending segments.
Great.
So we should – as the environment improves we should expect that to eventually reverse course I take it?  Jr.</strong> That’s correct.
Okay great.
Well I appreciate.
That's all for us.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Vivek Juneja of JPMorgan.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Hi.
Thanks.
Couple of quick questions.
Pardon me if I missed this one in the call.
Your consumer advanced product what is the dollar amount of outstanding in the yields on those loans? I think we haven’t disclosed our total outstandings or revenue I should say generated from Ready Advance.
And the reason for it is we’re in the process transitioning out of that into different product that we are testing as we speak.
And we want to make sure we give you investors the best information on what that revenue change if any will be as a result of those new products that we are transitioning into.
That will take for 2014 to transition.
And so if we get more clarity on that we will be happy to share that with you.
Jr.</strong>  And clearly there is going to be a revenue adjustment.
We are working through what that means for us and what our transition plans are.
We have not been adding customers to this product since the first of the year.
We are seeing just normal attrition in that customer base.
And within that product our transition strategies are either yet to be proven out and as we did a little more maturity around that transition process we will be able to give you a little more clarity on what we think the impact will be.
Okay.
One more question.
LCR – ultimately to get to – I know you don't need to get to 100% right now but ultimately to get to that – will you need to shift the mix of securities a little bit towards more of the level 1? Or where do you stand especially if you bring the cash that you've got sitting at the Fed now?  We are trying to address that a little bit in the prepared comments that we relieved based on the rules today.
And our interpretation of those rules we will be compliant with LCR when it’s implemented.
So relative to others we don’t have a lot of changes in terms of portfolio.
Changes that will affect us that being said we need to continue to see how it rules change over time.
And we will make corrections.
But based on what we see today you shouldn’t see a big change in our portfolio later.
Okay great thank you.
Your next question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG partners.
Thanks guys.
Grayson you'd mentioned earlier in the call about the smaller markets you have and the interest in trying to expand over time.
I was curious if any of these small markets are popping up today as pockets of good loan growth and opportunity that in terms of what you are already realizing.
We have all different kinds of markets in our 16 state to impress.
Each market offers a different competitive advantage or different opportunity I should say for us.
So some of the smaller markets we have products and services that should make the customer base.
And many other small markets the stability of deposits is really important to go back to questions asked earlier what happens when rates increase and economic activity starts occurring and deposit become all more important as your funding source.
And perhaps today we’ll count on the small markets where we have some really dense small markets that we think are really beneficial to us.
That being said we have markets where we’ve tried to get that density that we need or to get our products set sold through the market.
If that can’t happen then we will consolidate like you’ve seen us do.
And we'll look to continue to rationalize our footprint over time as a result that we can’t get the revenue streams that we desire from them.
Great David.
Thanks for the color here.
Your final question comes from the line of Matt O’Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> Hey David it’s afternoon.
I realize the credit card book is only about $1 billion but what's the thought process for offering credit card to non-customers? Jr.</strong>  Matt if you recall we – it’s not been that long ago that we repurchased our credit card book and then it took a few quarters to yet that book converted over to our systems and to get processes in place.
And so we really have been focused since that time on really penetrating our book of business and today about 14% of our customers have our credit card.
We’d love to see that come up to more corporate level where you see some of our peer groups in the 20% to 25% range.
We’ve been doing that and doing that more effectively each and every quarter.
We’ve seen most recently some numbers where we obviously are getting much more proficient and selling into the financial needs of our customers and offering that product.
We have been also trying to determine how best to grow the number of customers that bank with regions.
And so within our footprint we elected the sort of cash to market to see if there is a way to use our credit card product offering to attract new customers into our offices.
We’re already in that process.
There’s no intention on our part to be a heavy solicitation bank in terms of card but very targeted very selective in markets that we dominate where we have strong brand name recognition.
We’re trying to extreme it to see whether we can really drive some customer traffic into our branch offices for new accounts.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just as we think out over the next few years I want to say at one point you thought the card portfolio could get up to a $2 billion handle.
Is that correct or is that the thought process in terms of how big it could get over time?  Jr.</strong> Your math is just as good as mine.
We’re at 14% penetration.
If we can get into that 20% to 25% participation rate we ought to be able to double size that portfolio.
But more importantly is that we can offer our customers a more full financial relationship because all of our customers are going to carry one or more credit cards.
We’d love for one of those to be ours.
And our goal is to be able to manage that customer relationship which we think gives us a better chance of creating more customer loyalty better retention rate long-term for that customer base.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> Thank you.
I think that ends our questions and we appreciate your interest and your time today on this conference call.
And we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I will be your operator for today's call.
I would like to remind everyone that all participant phone lines have been placed on listen-only at the end of the call there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call this morning.
Our presenters today are Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall; and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
Other members of management are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we’ll be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
With that said I will turn it over to Grayson.
Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and participation in our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today we reported earnings of $292 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
Overall we are pleased with our results which reflect our steady progress as we continue to effectively execute on our business plans.
Total revenue was diversified among product lines and increased 2%.
Meanwhile our adjusted expenses decline improving our adjusted efficiency ratio 270 basis points 64.2% and importantly our number of customers and quality households increased again in the second quarter.
We are continuing to build on our solid foundation by focusing on the fundamentals.
This quarter we grew loans deposits and checking accounts.
In addition this quarter we were able to increase our shareholder dividend to $0.05 per quarter.
Through the first half of 2014 loans increased $1.9 billion or 2.6%.
Business lending had delivered strong growth this year which has become more broad-based geographically and by industry time.
We are seeing momentum in our upper middle market sector as companies are beginning to demand credit the competition remains elevated in this lending segment.
On the consumer side credit card and mortgage balances increased and indirect auto portfolio continue to expand.
Growth in indirect lending portfolio was driven in part by process improvement initiatives instituted earlier this year.
These initiatives improve loan processing automation and increased pull-through rates on loan closings.
As a result sales production per dealer has increased 18% in the first half of 2014.
Across the organization we are focused on driving process improvement to reduced variability improve processes and performance and accelerate efficiencies and effectiveness.
As with indirect auto example our efficiency initiatives extent beyond expense reductions and also focus on ways to enhance revenue we currently have several initiatives underway to optimize loan processing enhance the customer experience develop small business online banking capabilities and much more.
We are also continually working to identify customer needs and provide customers with the type of products and services they want and need while making it easier to do business with Regions.
It is the personal dedication from every associate that is making the difference at Regions.
This commitments not only from our customer facing associates which are regularly recognized for their excellent customer service but also for the back-office support associates who are constantly working to improve our processes our products and our technology.
While the economic environment continues to improve and recover we are staying focus on the things we can control.
This quarter’s decline in interest rates makes topline revenue growth even more challenging.
However we are committed to our prudent credit standards in order to increase revenue.
As a result our asset quality continues to improve as net charge-offs non-performing loans trouble debit restructurings declined in the second quarter.
In order to create a more streamlined corporate structure focused on execution we recently realigned our business units and geography leadership creating a general bank with consist of businesses and serve retail wealth management and business.
And a small bank and a corporate which consist of businesses that serve middle market and large corporate plants.
Importantly we believe this realignment creates a more effective model for executing our business strategy managing our performance and most importantly serving our customers.
To close we are pleased with this quarter’s results but we realized we must continue to remain focused and find ways to optimize our franchise in order to create long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn it over to David Turner who will cover the details of our second quarter results.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
Let’s take a look at the detail starting with balance sheet.
We achieved another quarter of steady growth as loan balances were up $833 million or 1.1%.
Notably both our business and consumer lending portfolio grew as total loan production increased 22% reflecting an improving economy.
The business lending portfolio totaled $48 billion at the end of the quarter an increase of 1% from the prior quarter.
The increase was primarily driven by commercial and industrial loans which grew $888 million or 3%.
C&amp;I growth was led by our general industries group within the geographies as well as our asset base and specialized lending groups.
In particular our technology and defense group achieved solid growth.
In addition to the seasonal impact we typically experience in the second quarter we are seeing an increasing number of commercial customers utilizing loans and lines to fund working capital general financial needs and to some extent M&amp;A.
C&amp;I loan production increased 26% and loan -- line utilization increased 30 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Meanwhile commitments for new loans increased $1 billion.
While ending investor real estate balances were down slightly from the first quarter average balances were up.
We expect to benefit from some incremental growth over the remainder of the year in this important loan category.
Total consumer lending increased $206 million linked quarter and represented 38% of our total loan portfolio at quarter end.
The growth in the consumer portfolio was led by indirect auto lending.
Both balances and production increased 5% from the prior quarter.
With our focus on process improvement and a positive outlook for auto sales we expect continued growth in this portfolio.
Credit card balances increased $28 million or 3% from the previous quarter.
This increase stems from a 14% increase in spending volumes and a 3% increase in new credit cards sales.
We expect balance growth to continue over the remainder of the year.
Mortgage balances were up modestly this quarter as production increased 31% linked-quarter and applications increased 18%.
Also mortgage prepayments typically linked to refinancing activity slowed from the previous quarter.
Originations continue to be driven by new home purchases and represented 76% of total originations.
Total home-equity loan balances declined $84 million as loan payoff continued to outpace new production.
Total home-equity production increased 32% from the previous quarter.
Importantly as customer’s home values increased they are taking advantage of both the fixed rate home equity loan product as well as the variable rate home equity line product.
Our direct consumer lending portfolio totaled $1.2 billion at the end of the quarter an increase of 4% from the prior quarter.
We currently have several new initiatives and products under development that we anticipate will further expand this portfolio overtime.
Looking ahead based on what we know today and reflecting our current economic forecast we continue to expect 2014 loan growth to be in the 3% to 5% range.
Let’s take a look at deposits.
Deposits continue to grow increasing by $429 million during the second quarter.
Similarly low-cost deposits grew by $697 million and continue to account for the majority at 90% of total deposits.
Deposit costs remained at historically low levels and totaled 11 basis points while total funding costs declined to 31 basis points in the second quarter.
We continue to expect 2014 deposit growth to be in the 1% to 2% range for the year.
Let’s take a look at how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable basis was $837 million an increase of $6 million.
The resulting net interest margin declined 2 basis points to 3.24%.
Net interest income was positively impacted by loan growth.
However this improvement was offset by lower asset yields and loan spread compression resulting from the persistently low rate environment and competitive pricing pressures.
Regions has been able to maintain a relatively stable margin primarily due to improvements in deposits and borrowing costs and due to the decline in rates that has persistent.
Looking forward we expect some modest net interest margin compression in the 5 to 7 basis point range.
However we expect to be able to grow net interest income concurrent with loan growth.
We remain asset sensitive and expect to benefit from increases in both short and long-term rates.
Therefore if the improvement in economic conditions translates into an increase in rates we would anticipate lift the both net interest income and net interest margin.
Let’s move on to non-interest revenues.
Total non-interest revenue increased 4% to $457 million in the second quarter.
Service charges increased 1% from the first quarter aided by an increase in checking accounts in the first half of the year.
In addition service charges are typically seasonally lower in the first quarter.
Card and ATM fees increased 6% from the previous quarter.
Debit card transaction volume increased 8% from the first quarter attributable to higher spending and the growth in checking accounts.
Credit card income benefited from a 3% increase in sales of new credit cards as well as spending increase.
Now with respect to our ready advance product as you recall we discontinued offering this product to new customers in late January and existing customers will be phased out by the end of the year.
While we were in this trial for short period of time relative to some of our peers we learn how to offer small dollar credit to our retail customers in a more effective manner.
We will take this knowledge and build on our commitment to providing all of our customers with credit solutions that meet their needs.
But we don't know how many of these customers will avail themselves of our credit products just to help you frame it up the contribution from the ready advance product on a pretax basis was approximately $6 million this quarter.
And to remind everyone we have successfully dealt with many legislative challenges that have impacted our non-interest revenue to a greater degree than the ready advance product which gives us confidence in dealing with these changes looking forward.
Let’s turn to the expenses.
We continue to focus on controlling expenses and our results reflect those efforts.
Adjusted non-interest expenses totaled $827 million in the second quarter down 2% linked-quarter.
Salaries and benefits declined 3% from the first quarter the majority of which was related to lower payroll taxes and benefits.
In addition year-to-date we have reduced overall headcount by 839 positions or 3.5% primarily driven by new branch optimization staffing strategy and the impact of recent branch consolidations.
Deposit administrative fees declined $9 million primarily related to our refund from previously incurred fees and going forward the run rate is expected to be similar to that of the first quarter.
Although our adjusted efficiency ratio improved to 64.2% we remain committed to driving continued efficiencies across organization.
We continue to expect full year 2014 adjusted expenses to be lower than those of 2013.
Let’s move on to asset quality.
We continue to make progress in the second quarter as many credit metrics improved.
Net charge-offs totaled $67 million which represented 35 basis points of average loans.
The provision for loan losses was $35 million or $32 million less charge-offs.
Our non-performing loans declined 16% linked-quarter and inflows of non-performing loans declined 8%.
At quarter end our loan-loss allowance to non-performing loans or coverage ratio was 137%.
In addition total late stage delinquencies declined 2% and total debt restructurings or TDRs declined 15% driven by payoff and paydowns.
And while total criticized loans increased from the previous quarter classified loans continue to decline and just to be clear the results of the shared national credit exam have been reflected in the results for this quarter.
Based on what we know today we expect favorable asset quality trends to continue.
However at this point in cycle volatility in certain metrics can be expected.
Let’s move on to capital and liquidity.
Our capital position remains strong as our estimated Tier 1 ratio at end of the quarter stood at 12.5%.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio was 11.6% an increase of 20 basis points from the previous quarter.
We estimate our fully phased-in Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio to be 11% well above the minimum threshold and liquidity at both the bank and holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 82%.
Importantly based on our understanding of the proposed rule regions remain well-positioned to be fully compliant with respect to the liquidity coverage ratio.
Now in summary our second quarter results continue to build on the momentum established earlier in the year.
We believe that by focusing on our customers and by creating products and services that meet their needs we will grow our customer base deepen existing relationships and strengthen the communities in which we operate.
Furthermore we continue to create and foster an environment that attracts and retains top talent allowing us not only better serve our customers but also successfully execute on our strategic priorities all of which we believe will ultimately create long-term value for our shareholders.
Thank you for your time and attention this morning and I will now turn it back over to List for instructions for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning I would like to ask each caller to please limit yourself to one primary question and one related follow-up question.
Now let’s open up the line now for your questions operator.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Keith Murray of ISI.
Thanks.
Let me just spend a minute on trends behind the service charge on deposits basically flattish quarter-over-quarter down a little year-over-year.
What’s going on behind there? From a service charge -- Keith this is David.
Honestly seasonally low in the first quarter generally picks up in the second.
We have had couple of things going on.
First of we are growing accounts which is encouraging.
The customer behaviors have changed as well.
From what we see the customers are being more careful with how they manage their accounts and that’s reflected in some of the negative in terms of our service charge line.
We think the right thing to do is continue to create products and services that our customers need and will value.
That is pay for what they get and we believe the way to continue to increase those service charge line item is through the customer growth that we are seeing and we have our -- all of our associates focusing on growing that line item.
Thank you.
And then just on the loan growth guidance it looks like you're calling for a little bit slower growth in the back half of the year versus the first half.
Where are you seeing little bit of decline in momentum category wise? I’ll answer and then I’ll ask David to expand on it.
We forecasted loan growth in sort of 3% to 5% range and we still feel that’s an appropriate for us to forecast that at this juncture.
We are seeing credit demand more broadly than we’ve seen in the past which has been an encouraging improvement.
I would just say that we have seen increased competition in that space as well both from banks and non-banks.
And so it is that activity is taking place we still believe that we’re doing a great job of getting in front of customers our bankers are some of the best and we’re winning lot of the business but given what we’re seeing now from both the demand and a competition standpoint we still believe our forecast is in line.
David? Yeah we started Keith the first quarter really strong start with several conferences and were asked why we’re in the 3% and 5% range when the run rate clearly would imply much larger.
One quarter doesn’t make a trend two quarters didn’t quite make a trend either.
But as we look out and we see the demands for credit larger corporate demand still not seeing quite a small business demand that we’d like to see and we’re still cautious about being beyond 3% to 5%.
We want to make good loans profitable loans.
We are saying no more today than we have been as a result of some of the competitive pricing pressures and structure -- structures that we see.
So right now we still think 3% to 5% is a right number.
We'll see what happens in the third quarter and update that on the next call.
Pipelines are robust.
We still feel good about the pipelines.
To David’s point the production even in the small business sector has been good it’s been encouraging but it hasn’t resulted in lot of growth in outstandings because of payoffs and paydowns.
But we still see -- continue to see awful lot of deleveraging taking place out of bank debt.
And while the demand is picking up and we feel bullish about where the economy is going we still -- we still are concerned about the level of competition and the level of alternatives for some of our borrowing.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Eric.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on a couple of the forward-looking statements.
With respect to your operating expense lines if we were to simply annualize the first two quarters here we’d end up achieving the guidance.
So I guess my key question on this is should we expect incremental improvements from the second quarter $827 million level? We’ve -- as I mentioned in our prepared comments we continue to focus on expenses every day given the challenges in growing revenue.
Our guidance has been year-over-year guidance which we want to stick with right now.
But every line item that you see in and a lot of line items are underneath what you see in our public financial statements.
We are working hard on every single one of those.
Obviously the driver on expense management -- the number one our largest category is our salaries and benefits occupancy.
We continue to look at furniture and fixtures.
We look at -- but we’re having savings in some areas and investments in others.
We've invested an awful lot in regulatory compliance given what’s going on in our industry and but I think we can continue to become more efficient.
Our efficiency ratio was down quite a bit from last quarter.
We have given guidance that we would continue to work to the lower 60s over the year.
How low we can go we’ll have to see.
Large -- a big part of that’s really the revenue side of the equation versus expenses.
And obviously also David we’re clearly focused on positive operating leverage and while we’ve given guidance to our expenses this year to come in below last year’s final number.
We are focused on trying to deliver prudent growth and to the extent that this growth were to exceed our expectations than obviously some of the compensation around that would also increase.
But right now we still feel good about our guidance.
On the service component is there incremental headcount reduction to come or is that largely through at this stage? I would say the majority of the headcount reductions that resulted in the rationalization of our branch staffing and also rationalization of the number of branches.
Those who were in the numbers today but we continue to look for efficiency opportunities across the company and still confident in our ability to driver those efficiencies out.
So incrementally there are still opportunity and -- but the parts you saw coming out of first quarter it had a lot to do with some of the branch rationalization work we do.
And if I may sneak in one more can you -- I heard your comments on the asset quality outlook but how specifically should we think about the adequacy of the provision at this level down into the 1.4% range? You’re talking about the allowance.
Correct.
We have a pretty sophisticated model that as we go through the exercise every quarter in terms of determine -- determining what the allowance needs to be.
We will continue to follow that.
You know as credit quality continues to improve in particular non-performing loans TDRs and charge-offs gives us more confidence that the allowance level can come down some as well.
Where that terminal value is it’s very difficult for us to come up with.
We had originally given you guidance on a range of 1.5% to 2%.
We think we can go south of that number given the improvement of our credit quality.
But we have been reluctant to peg exactly where we think that can get to because it’s really depends on what our model tells us.
And so we’re going to stick to that.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
If I could follow up on the net interest margin outlook for down 5 to 7 basis points I guess first to clarify is that combined down 5 to 7 basis points for the back half of this year? That’s down from where we’re right now back half of the year.
That’s correct.
Okay so in total over two quarters potentially down 5% to 7%? That’s right.
Okay.
And then I guess just bigger picture why is there the margin pressure? I guess if I look at short and medium-term rates they haven't really changed.
Obviously the tenure has come in.
Is it some of the bond premium amortization or is it loan pricing or is it just that the shorter end of the curve hasn't moved up at all or all of them? We expected the short rates to be where they are.
Long rates we have expected to rise a little bit towards the back half of the year still do but the tenure persistently lower.
If you look at LIBOR LIBOR is down lower as well.
So -- and I think it’s just this continued reinvestment that we are having to make with our cash flows in the lower rate environment that continues to put pressure on net interest margin.
That being said we continue to grow loan portfolio like we think we can.
We think net interest income can grow commensurate with that loan growth that we will have.
So from a competitive standpoint we have -- we've been relatively stable from a margin standpoint.
I think our peer average that we track were down about 6 points this quarter.
And we've done relatively well but at some point we’ve got to -- it's going to catch up to us from a NIM standpoint.
We've had deposit growth that we need to deal with which is a good thing but you have extra cash flows put to work some of that sitting at Federal Reserve where you don’t get a lot of carry and they actually work against you from a NIM standpoint.
So I would be overly focused on the NIM but we are going to have the challenges just like everybody else will have and our focus is really on growth of net interest income line.
Okay that's helpful.
And just separately the deposit advance product that has gotten a lot of focus and I think at $6 million a quarter is materially less than people were fearing.
Remind us is that included in the service charge on deposit? And if so has there already been a little bit of decline in that product which is why the fees are flat or down $1 million year-over-year? That’s right.
Matt it’s all in the service charge line and so that’s a result of discontinuation of new clients coming in January.
Clearly there has been some runoff there.
That is reflected in the first and second quarter service charge line items clearly a bigger impact in the second quarter than the first given our timing.
So that’s a little bit -- that may get little bit to Keith’s point that he started with those service charges as well.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
On the troubled debt restructuring your TDRs we know that there's a pretty hot market for that stuff right now and some of your competitors have been selling assets into that.
I know you sold some a couple quarters ago but I don't believe you sold any this quarter.
Can you give me some thoughts -- are you just going to just let that portfolio run off or is there opportunities to sell that at some pretty good prices today? I think Paul if you look at the transaction that we had for the fourth quarter we closed it in the first.
It was unique.
We felt given that pool of assets and pricing for that particular pool was the right thing for us to do.
We continue to evaluate opportunities to sell assets TDRs when the economics make sense.
And when the trade that makes us work we’re not going to do it just to unload troubled debt restructurings.
If you look at our TDRs there’s a disproportionate amount those that are paying us as agreed and accruing.
We just have them in TDR classification because they met the definition of restructuring at the time.
We do think that in particular in the commercial side we’re seeing credit improve.
You can see that in our metrics from classified to criticized assets as loans continue to improve and they've been upgraded to better categories.
And so overtime we think some of those TDRs will be payoffs.
Again they are paying us as agreed so there will be pay offs there will be pay downs.
And there will be some -- it just get better and upon renewal those could go into different classification.
So it’s really about three or four things working there to help us improve TDRs but it’s all about -- the number one driver is asset quality improvement.
Will and Paul I think additionally we look at the relationships we have with these customers and many of these customers may be in a TDR status but they are paying as agreed and they have a deep relationship with our company.
And so we take that into consideration.
But to David’s point we continue to look at this category that's on our balance sheet and try to make the best decision for what’s best long term for the company and our customers.
And you don't take -- I mean you do take more of a capital charge with the TDRs would you rather take that capital charge if you can maintain a customer? Is that what basically you’re telling me? I mean I think to David’s point we look at the economics and the economics is not only of the trade but the economics is the value of that relationship on an ongoing basis.
Okay.
Hey guys thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning guys.
So just to ask Eric's question a little different way.
When we look at expenses in the back half of last year there was a pretty big ramp.
So I guess assuming your base case of 3% to 5% loan growth assuming that does happen should we expect to see a ramp from the current levels or do you think you can continue to keep expenses close to where we are today? So if you recall last year Ryan we were investing quite heavily in our wealth management initiative and we had hired a number of people towards the second half of last year really to get that initiative up and running and we made a lot of progress on that but that initiative is funded today.
And so depending on what the opportunities are in the last half we can’t predict those.
Right now we are pretty pleased with where we stand from a staffing standpoint and absent any unforecasted opportunities to bring more talent into the company we are going we think where we need to be.
Got it.
Then Grayson just on capital unless I missed it in the release you guys have one of the highest capital ratios of your peers.
And it looked and if unless my math is wrong it doesn't look like you guys used much of the buyback at all.
Yet last year if I remember you used over half your authorization right out of the gate.
So can you just talk your decision to hold off on the $350 million or so buyback? I think we've seen a couple of others out there who have been constructive on the back half of the year utilizing large chunks early on so I would be interested to hear your view on using capital.
Yes absolutely your memory is good.
Last year we’re fairly early in the process of executing buybacks.
And this year we submitted the capital plan that’s different than year.
We think we’ve done the right thing for our company but it is a different plan than we executed last year.
David? Yes I think Ryan we -- let me just go through kind of steps on how we think about capital clearly we want to get our dividend up.
We want to use our capital for growing organically.
We want to use our capital after that for growth of portfolios growth of businesses whether they be banks or non-banks and when that manifests itself to return it to shareholders.
So we submitted our capital plan early January based on our third quarter of last year.
It’s been a while and we put in there specific capital actions that we would like to engage including the timing thereof.
And without being too specific we are executing according to the plan that we submitted to our regulatory supervisors that didn’t receive an objection.
So you know what our buyback is we made that public and we will execute according to that plan.
Got it.
If I could just sneak in one other quick one I know you noted that the SNC exam was in this quarter's results.
I do think some of us were surprised that we did see a 24% increase in the special mentioned loans.
Was this driven by the SNC exam? And if not can you just give us some color as to what drove the quarter-over-quarter increase? Well we can’t comment specifically on regulatory activities.
I tried to put that in my prepared comments that the results from that exam have been incorporated and what you see in our numbers.
You also as you look at the classified and criticized schedule it’s in our supplement.
You will see the improvement classifieds moving some of that improvement moved into special mentioned.
So net net if you look at them together we are up I think about 2%.
We are still encouraged by the path of our credit quality.
There is nothing that cause us to believe that our credit quality is turning to go the other way which I think is really what your ultimate question is.
As these credits migrate you are going to see more credits move into that special mention category as that particular credit recovers.
Got it.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Good morning Marty.
Good morning.
Grayson I want to ask kind of a strategic question.
When you're looking at potential kind of pockets of further recovery I look at the excess capital that's been built and it's continuing to go higher.
You've got excess liquidity to deploy at some point and you've got the rate sensitivity that's sitting there.
Can you just talk a little bit about strategically how you think of these three things and how you are wanting to use those for the best benefit of your shareholders? Yeah I think Marty as David was trying to articulate just a moment ago is that we’ve made a conscious decision to try to position our company in this way.
We think it’s to our strategic advantage to position ourselves this way.
We do know that we’ve got some excess capital relative to peers.
We do think we still have pockets of recovery that is still occurring in the markets that we operate in and in the portfolios that we have owned our balance sheet.
We think that every quarter puts us in a little bit better position and still confident and encourage by the progress we are making.
That excess capital excess liquidity is certainly something we discuss and work through from a strategy standpoint.
I think that as we put together our capital plan for this year we try to weigh those opportunities and what we thought timing of those kind of opportunities might be in.
And we put our plan together accordingly.
So if those growth opportunities don’t occur as we thought or don’t occur on the timeline we thought we will make adjustments as we go forward but right now we are pleased with our position.
I anticipate questions on this issue but we still remain pleased with where we are at.
Yeah Marty I will add from an excess capital standpoint this gives us maximum flexibility to do some things.
We realized that whatever those things might be don’t manifest themselves that we can’t continue to pile up capital and work against our return metrics and the fact that our common equity cost is still much higher than we want it to be.
So we get the message.
We know we have a plan for getting that deployed in a meaningful manner going forward.
From an excess liquidity standpoint we are sitting here with loan deposit ratio of 82%.
We do have this new thing coming called the LCR liquidity coverage ratio that we all need to be very careful on what that means to our industry.
It is a big change and of course we don’t have the final rules but we feel confident based on what we see today that we are going to be fully compliant with that.
But that will have a different liquidity profile when it’s implemented than we do today.
And so we need to be careful there.
From an interest rate risk standpoint we are continuing to be asset sensitive.
We would love for rates increase some.
Unfortunately given the economy given a lot of geopolitical issues we don’t know that we will see that in ’14.
We think perhaps we see that in the latter part of ’15.
That being said we think our balance sheet positioning is the right thing for us at this time.
The other thing I was going to just kind of big picture is efficiency ratio.
You've made a lot of progress in getting that down from like 70% into the low 60s.
Traditionally the low 60s has kind of been where Regions has kind of plateaued so you've made a lot of progress even compared to historically where you've been with the ability to show at least when revenues pop on rising interest rates.
So it just seems like to me the operating leverage is getting to a point where you could probably squeeze that pretty tightly and you're waiting on that next round to kind of get you down towards the 60% range.
Yeah I mean Marty I think we work very hard.
We made pretty solid progress on improving operating efficiency of the company and a lot of progress on the expense side of the income statement.
We’ve done a lot of things in terms of rationalizing our workforce and rationalizing our fiscal infrastructure.
We reduced several million square feet of space so we focused on a lot of process reengineering to take a lot of the labor out of different processes.
So we feel pretty good about what we -- we feel encouraged by what we have done on the expense side.
At the same time we face some pretty big challenges in terms of revenue generation.
There have been a number of regulatory and legislative activities that challenged our other revenue side of our income statement.
And so if you look at our challenges today it’s much more apparent on the revenue than on the expense side.
All that being said we still are spending an awful lot of time and still finding opportunities to reduce expenses in our company and we will continue to do so.
But we likewise are spending an equal amount of time trying to figure out how we generate revenues inside our company.
Obviously an increase in interest rate would be very helpful to our revenues but today we can’t depend on that we can’t expect that to happen quickly.
So we are finding other ways to do that.
And we are growing households growing accounts and growing the debt of our relationships our customers and then start to make a difference.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Good morning Ken.
Hi.
Good morning Grayson.
The first question just a follow-up on the service charges.
Thank you for quantifying the deposit advance.
So I was wondering if you could just help us walk through those changes in behavior that you've seen in other parts of the service charges and maybe how much is related to changes on the overdraft side and then also just your further expectations about trying to help us size overdrafts.
And hopefully we'll get them someday this expected rules what type of potential impact we are still looking at there? Well I think it’s a -- it maybe a challenge to our revenues but I think it’s a good news for our economy.
We’re really seeing much more financial discipline out of the consumers which are banking with us.
If you recall back several quarters ago we’re predominantly a free checking provider and we went to fee eligible.
So 97% 98% of our accounts today are fee eligible based off of balances or transaction activity hurdles.
And what we are seeing is people are managing to those requirements and doing a better job at that today than ever before.
So they are carrying higher balances and we also are seeing customers who are avoiding overdraft activities.
And so you are seeing better personal discipline around that.
It’s interesting you see the same thing on the card side both the credit card and debit cards spending is up strong double digits on those cards but balances on the credit side continue to be modest.
So we would just continue to say that the economy of the consumer appears to be getting stronger and the financial discipline around those customers appears to be better.
As a result a lot of the fees that we typically would have seen are not as strong as they were but I actually think that’s a good news and I also think that it bodes well for when deposit gathering franchises become valuable again.
There will be a point when interest rate comes up and our ability to gather deposits is really the strength of this organization.
Okay.
And then secondly on the wealth management side I just noticed two of the three lines looked pretty good but the third line the biggest one the investment management trust fee income was a little light sequentially and year-over-year.
So I just wonder if you can give us an update on either specifically what impacted that this quarter and also your take up and relative growth expectations for that wealth management business looking ahead.
Thanks.
Yeah Ken I would tell you that the wealth management line item that you refer to was down a little bit.
I would say there is nothing systemic there that we can grow that and expect to grow that.
We do that by executing our Regions 360 approach which is making sure that our bankers that are out there with customers are taking the folks in our trust area to their client to continue to grow that.
It has been slower than we want but we really have a pretty good focus on Region 360 and expectations on our sales folks to perform consistent with the shared value and the Regions 260 playbook that we put together.
So we do think that that will get back on track and growing.
It was down just a little bit so nothing really systemic.
Your next question comes from Gaston Ceron of Morningstar Equity Research.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Gaston.
Just had a quick question to follow up on the issue of competition for loans.
Just curious are you seeing the nature and I guess the strength of competition play out any significantly different this time than during other previous cycles that you've been through? And is there anything particularly unusual about how the competition is sort of ratcheting up here compared to other times that we've seen this sort of thing happen? Yeah.
I can't really say how differently this is from other cycles necessarily.
I think this one still is playing out but what we’re seeing is that given the liquidity in the market given the interest rate environments that in particular are upper middle market corporate type credits help a lot of alternative the public capital markets being one of those alternatives in.
So we’re just seeing more customers taking advantage of the environment we’re operating in.
And I think a longer it goes on the more competition we’ll see.
And so underlying all that is incrementally more credit demand than we’ve seen in the past we still are seeing strong pipelines for new business but the competition around those relationships is as strong as I’ve ever seen.
And an awful lot of pressure on our bankers to get out in front of those customers and try to convince then the value of our relationship but no doubt there is a lot of competition a lot of alternatives today.
Okay.
Fair enough thanks.
And then just very quickly as a follow-up I know you talked about some margin compression in the second half of the year here and I hear what you are saying about focusing more on growing NII than just looking at the margin.
But just to follow-up on that I'm just curious -- I mean I don't know if it's too early to look into the first part of 2015 but would you have any expectations that after this pressure in the second half here that things might stabilize on the margin front in kind of the early part of 2015 or is it just too early to say? Well your two questions are more interrelated than you might have initially thought because I think that when you look at the credit quality or the credits that we’re putting on the books today it’s some of the best.
I mean a lot of our corporate customers they have an awful lot of liquidity themselves and less debt than they have historically carried.
Their balance sheets are in much better shape.
And so they’ve got a lower -- from our standpoint they’ve got a lower risk rating a better credit quality picture and can demand better pricing on credit.
So as long as the economy continues to improve and as long as the credit quality of our borrowers continue to improve it’s going to keep placing pressure on the margin as new loans come on the books and you saw that compression in our own loan yields this quarter.
And I think that just sort of continues as long as we’re sort to own this glide plan.
Hopefully at some point in the future we start to see the interest rate environments modestly change upward.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Erika.
Good morning.
My first question is just on the LCR.
As we look forward to the rest of the year and you think about balance sheet actions related to LCR compliance do you just plan to remix your current securities cash flows into HQLA? Or should we expect the balance sheet to grow faster in the back half of the year? And also does the NIM outlook for 5 to 7 basis points does it include any impact from LCR friendly balance sheet moves? Hey Erika this is David.
Our NIM outlook incorporates all activity all actions that we would take.
From an LCR standpoint given we’re well positioned we have a relatively large securities book today.
We have reinvested some of our cash flows into different investment classes like Ginnie Maes.
We have a corporate bond portfolio.
We’ll recirculate some o those cash flows out of that portfolio into Ginnies and other high quality liquid asset.
So you should not expect a significant change in our makeup especially relative to some of our peers.
And that’s a little bit of the beauty as to where we are with regards to our loan deposit ratio and the size of our securities book relative to some others.
Got it.
My second question is just a quick follow-up on credit.
If we think about encouraging loan growth signs improving loan demand from here as well as credit that continues to improve but we’re probably along the bottom.
How many quarters away do you think we are in terms of provisions starting to match charge-offs? Yeah.
That’s a really interesting question.
You say we’re here bumping along the bottom.
I will say we’re encouraged by where our credit metrics have gone but we expect them to continue to improve somewhat the pace of which is a little uncertain.
But today we’re at 35 basis points 62% of our loan book is commercial our business services I should say.
And so we think there's a room to continue to come down and it’s that pace of charge-offs that ultimately dictate how much reserve release we have and what ultimately our reserve levels need to be.
So I don’t know that we’ve quite gotten to the bottom of the bump along just yet.
And so I think look at one thing look at what our NPLs do what would our inflows do and what would our charge-offs do to give you better information as to what a go forward level might be.
Okay helpful.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning Grayson and David.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First of all you mentioned that you are getting a little bit more demand for underwriting of home equity loans.
Certainly make sense given the data that we have seen in terms of the improvement in home equity values.
But I guess I'm just curious if you could give us a little more color as to how you are underwriting those and if there's any regulatory guidance that is being imposed on you in terms of trying to reduce the future rate shock on those -- on the HELOCs? First of all we have seen a shift in our equity product line.
We have both the line of credit and are fully amortizing equity loan product.
You’re seeing a shift where there is more production now in the line product than loan product that’s been a recent shift.
I think an awful a lot of the loan production historically has been interrelated to refinance.
In particular the people who have small dollar mortgages relatively small dollar mortgages and so as that refinance activity is going away some has debt production.
And so the line product is you’re seeing more production out of it.
That production has been helped by the home appreciation values that we’ve experienced over the last several quarters but still being very conservatively underwritten and much more conservatively underwritten than what you have seen previous to the economic recession.
And so we’ve changed a lot of our product features as well as changed a lot of our pricing around those features.
And we in addition have changed a lot of our underwriting criteria in terms of loan to values.
And as you look at the quality of that book and I can't state it off the top of mind David may can is that loan-to-value ratios are very solid.
The credit scores we’re seeing on it are north of 700.
And we have the product does begin amortizing.
I believe if I’m right it’s a 10-10 product 10 years interest rate 10 years of amortization.
And so we feel good about the product that we’re underwriting from a regulatory compliance perspective.
And I think the new LTV is averaging around 60% on new production.
Now I’ll add a couple of things.
We were a little different then most of us going into this -- into the recession relative to this product where we had basically a 20 year IO.
We stop that to have a 10-10 product as Grayson mentioned.
The benefit if you will of having that is if you look at Page 13 of our supplement you’ll see the future maturities of the home equity lines of credit we broke it down in first and second liens.
And you can see what the resets are.
They really don’t even start until 2019 and the bulk of these are in 2026.
As a matter of fact if you look at 2014 our resets are $128 million $195 million next year.
So we don’t have the payment shock issue in the near term like some others have.
I also point you to Page 11 in the supplement where if you look at our credit quality our improvement was pretty noticeable with regard to our home equity product.
In particular if you look at second lien improvement terms of charge-offs so that product performance is very well.
The credit quality has been well.
Our pricing of that product before the changes when we grew the portfolio we’re little challenging and as we use to prime minus a half and prime minus one so that’s been our bigger issue versus credit quality more payment shocks.
Okay.
Thank you for that information and then just in terms of the -- a number of your competitors have mentioned this quarter about not just looking at net interest margin particularly on the commercial relationships.
You have to -- we in the analyst community have to look at the broader relationship and the fee revenue component that each relationship brings in.
But if I look at that in terms of just the second quarter and maybe this is too short a view year-over-year capital markets fee revenue was down a little bit year-over-year commercial credit fee income is now down a little bit year-over-year.
How are you thinking about growing those types of fees to improve the overall profitability of your corporate relationships presuming rates don't really move up much before the end of 2015? Yeah.
That’s a good question.
We’ve continued to make investments in our capital markets group for that purpose to continue to bring in new clients for us.
We have new capabilities in terms of underwriting there that we started about a year ago.
And I think if we stay focused to capital markets fees while we’re focused on that the interest rate environment is a big driver.
A lot of those fees are really driven by some of our derivatives we sell into the market.
Interest rate swaps to be more specific.
And we have rate environment that is as low as it is with no real expectations for increases.
Clients are reluctant to lock in so they will just take the interest risk themselves.
That will change in time and when it does you’ll see that manifest itself in our capital markets income.
We have other income streams.
We continue to work on you mentioned the relationship.
This is maybe the single most important thing to take from our company is we are relationship bank.
We have Regions 360 which means taking our entire bank to our client base.
Not just -- you cannot be just a credit only shop.
We have other products treasury management capital markets whatever the case -- insurance.
We have other lines of business that our customers can use.
And so it's really understanding the needs of our customer base and taking those lines of business and product and services and delivering those to the needs of the customer.
That will be the differentiator for us over the long haul.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my question.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Good morning Gerard.
Gerard.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
In terms of your loan growth you gave us some color that you expect loans to grow in that 3% to 5% range and you talked about competition more recently being very strong.
I guess the question I have though is your commercial real estate portfolio both the investor-owned and owner-occupied which has always been a strong part of your business continues to steadily decline.
It's not just this quarter of course as you know and I know you were derisking the portfolio and that program I was under the impression was completed.
So I guess is what's happening to that portfolio as it continues to shrink? Is it something you just want to be smaller in that business or what's going on there? Not at all.
I would tell you that production on investor commercial real estates has been pretty strong.
And we continue to believe there is opportunities to grow that portfolio.
We’d obviously got to do that prudently and thoughtfully.
And -- but we’re out finding ways to grow that portfolio everyday.
The owner-occupied segment of that just for clarification is heavily influenced by small business and medium size businesses.
And a lot of this is the facilities that they’re operating out of and that portfolio continues to amortize and to pay down over time.
We got lot of work that we’re trying to do internally around those particular lending segments to try to encourage that and we’re seeing good production.
But I would tell you all the customer segments we look at that small business that small to medium-size business has been sort of late to recover late to come back and have a lot of demand for credit.
The stronger demand is up in the upper middle market larger corporate customers and has been -- and the consumer has been fairly strong especially in the area of auto.
But that’s small to medium-size business while were seeing their production we really still need to see to get a really healthy economy really need to see that customer segment strengthen a little bit more and develop a little bit more confidence to invest in their businesses and that’s predominantly driving that owner-occupied category.
Thank you.
And regarding -- I know you guys have touched on the capital.
Obviously your Tier 1 common ratio is very strong at 11%.
If I recall in CCAR your CCAR stress test I think reduced your Tier 1 common ratio by about 280 basis points and since 5% is obviously the bogey everybody has to get to I would think most banks would want to stay around 8.5% not to get anything close to that 5% in CCAR.
What is your guys' thinking on where that Tier 1 common ratio should get to? I know you've got different strategies of how to use the excess capital but I am more asking at what level do you think you should be at under a normalized environment when rates come back a bit and maybe growth picks up a little more? Gerard this is David.
So you're right on the stress basis that we've -- if you look at our portfolio makeup at that time we think that our improving credit metrics is part of it our TDRs.
There are elements about our balance sheet that consume more stress than we have in the past.
If you look at where we think Tier 1 common could go and Basel I you would be in that 8.5% to 9% range.
And clearly we’re well above that.
That goes back to the excess capital question that was ask by Marty and how do we really get that deployed in the most efficient -- most effective manner.
So we’re looking at alternatives today and but we do think we have capital to spend on host of things not only total capital.
But we need to optimize our capital stack in terms of making sure we have the proper amount of common and proper amount of non-common Tier 1 as well.
So there's still such things that we’re working on to get capital levels and the stack optimized.
Do you -- not to pursue what those strategies are but is there a timeframe that you think you could get to an 8.5% 9% level? Is it end of ‘16 or is it sooner or later than that? You that’s a great question.
That’s a little harder to answer.
I don’t think you’ll snap the fingers and get to that level over night.
I do think it’s something over time.
I think the first thing we want to do is not continue to accrete capital at the level and pace of which as to what we’ve been doing and to get that deployed in the more effective manner.
So let’s do that first and then look at what -- what options are out there for us to take advantage of with our capital mix.
We think that gives us a lot of flexibility to see how things transition in our industry to be -- allow us to use that capital.
And so I don't want to make any commitment as to -- really the level I gave you kind of a rough range but I certainly don’t want to give you a timeframe.
It’s -- we need to leave that open-ended.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Richard Bove of Rafferty Capital Markets.
Good morning Dick.
Good morning.
This has been a long call so if you want to do this offline that's fine.
But I was wondering if you could go through the process in this auto sector.
We had this article in the New York Times last Saturday.
It was pretty negative and what I am thinking about is are you adding new car dealers or used car dealers? Are you letting the dealer underwrite the loan? Are you checking the premium that the dealer is putting on the rate? Are you looking at the price of the car that is being sold relative to some kind of Blue Book situation to determine whether the dealer is gouging the customer? I mean how do you -- how are you approaching this whole new process in the auto sector?  I think the clearly the lot of attention on this particular customer segment and we spent a lot time on this segment from a compliance perspective and in fact we have -- we've actually reduce the number of dealers that we are operating with.
We had -- it’s in our disclosures but we actually have reduced the number of dealers we are dealing with by about 300 -- approximately 300.
So we are going through and rationalize which dealers that we are getting healthy amount of business from and getting it in a correct manner.
Lot of dear oversight lot of dealer monitoring around rates and spreads and adjustments for those rates and spreads and so you will continue to see us elevate our monitoring capabilities of that segment to make sure that we are adequately addressing compliance issues.
In addition we use a lot of third-party reviews.
Third parties to come in and look at that compare the numerics and make sure that we understand exactly what's going on dealer by dealer and loan by loan I will be glad to have some of our team who is working on that full-time to give you more detail around that.
It’s -- but it’s a complex endeavor and we are investing time and energy in there to make sure that we are doing this in a responsible way.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Chris Mutascio of KBW Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to ask the provision question maybe a little differently David if we could? Did the inflection in the loan loss provision expense this quarter have anything to do with the spike in the special mentioned category? I would tell you that what -- our allowance model certainly takes into account our risk ratings that we have which would include special mentioned substandard so forth.
So by definition if these incorporate in our provisioning and allowance levels that we established.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from John Pancari of Evercore.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sorry for the long call here.
But back to the deposit fees I guess this goes back to Ken's question which you might have been looking at -- getting at is have you been able to quantify a potential impact from check order processing changes I know you have made a big step in helping us with the quantification of the deposit advance product I wanted to see if you've got a similar quantification on the sequencing? Thanks.
John this is David.
We continue to see how this issue is going to evolve.
We know this has been pushed off a little bit.
It’s probably a late ‘15 ‘16 issue.
We are continuing to do what we think is the right thing to do buy our customer.
We’re going to test the few things starting in the first part of 2015.
Because its not just check order processing or debt processing order it’s got deposits it has funds availability there are whole host of things that are had to be considered in this and that’s why it’s difficult to pinpoint specifically what it -- would mean.
Now what we do believe as we learn from our -- some of our test in the first part of ’15 and as we get batter guidance we will share that with you but we don’t see this being an impact in ’15 as much as it might be in ’16 and that’s depended on whether not to come up with further guidance.
Okay.
Thank you on that.
And then separately on the excess capital discussion can you just give us a little bit of your thought process around if M&amp;A is part of your plans and is that potentially more focused around business acquisitions or loan portfolio acquisitions or could it be whole bank deals? Thanks.
Yeah.
As I’ve tried to mentioning our thought process I’ll go through the beginning of it because it’s important to know our full way of thinking is we got dividend some and we continued to challenge to make sure we have a faired reasonable dividend given the limits in guidance by our regulatory supervisors.
We then look to deploy our capital organically growing earning assets at our company.
We also look to use that for acquisitions of portfolio like we did our credit card portfolio couple years ago.
We look at non-bank transactions that would give us sources of revenue without utilizing a lot of capital that would help us from a diversification of revenue stream and we look at and have a whole teams looks at bank as well.
If and when that ultimately comes back so we are going to prepare ourselves for that type of transaction and when all that doesn’t work then we will return that excess capital back to the shareholder in prudent manner and subject to capital plans and no objections from our regulatory supervisors in the CCAR process.
So I guess the short answer would be yes it is included but that’s the order that we think about in capital form.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then lastly here any -- on the commercial real estate front to help support growth there any possibility there or any thought process around extending the duration a bit of your CRE paper that you're putting on the books in order to drive volume growth for example competing more aggressively with some of the permanent financing players for example? We’ve talked about whether or not that’s viable for us to date we have not done anything to extent that duration.
You can see our kind of what our portfolio looks like right now and it really is depended on what type of risk adjusted return we can get on this product.
What our stress capital looks like on this product.
And so I think that if we really look that that the first place we would look is really in that owner occupied real estate space where we have a little different client make up as Grayson mentioned earlier usually a smaller business that has put up real estate as collateral out of an abundance caution in many cases and we are willing to take a little bit of duration risk with that.
But I can tell you to date we have done a lot of it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
I believe that’s our last question.
We appreciate everyone your time and attention today.
Thank you and if there is any questions after the call feel free to call List Underwood and Dana Nolan.
We will be glad to take your call.
Thank you very much for being here today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's quarterly earnings call.
My name is Paula and I will be your operator for today's call.
I would like to remind everyone that all participant phone lines have been placed on listen-only.
At the end of the call there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call today.
Our presenters this morning are Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall and our Chief Financial Officer David Turner.
Other members of our management team are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of the call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix of the presentation.
I will now turn it over to Grayson.
Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Regions and participation in our third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today we reported another solid and consistent quarter with earnings of $305 million or $0.22 per diluted share.
Total revenue increased 2% and asset quality remained solid with a net charge-off ratio of 39 basis points.
We continue to focus on meeting the financial needs of our customers and once again this quarter we grew our customer base and deepened relationships as evidenced by growth and quality households and quality checking accounts all of which are fundamental drivers of long-term sustainable growth.
Although the overall lending environment was challenging in the third quarter we remain committed to maintaining disciplined credit underwriting standards.
Competition remains intense within the business lending creating pressure on both price and structure.
Nonetheless we remain prudent on how we choose to compete the loans.
As a result there are number of deals that we are walking away from that do not meet the company risk appetite or have unacceptable terms.
While we experience slower demand in July August recent trends indicate a very favorable pickup in activity and have generally been more favorable both at the end of the quarter and as we enter the next quarter.
The consumer lending portfolio continues to expand including growth in indirect loans credit card and mortgages.
Additionally our deposit base continued to increase with the pending deposit balances up $308 million from the prior quarter.
We remain focused on growing and diversifying our non-interest revenue.
Despite the challenging environment we believe to align customers to bank the way to choose is a key to customer satisfaction and growth.
We also recognize we must continue to innovate as it is critical to attracting and retaining customers.
We are committed to driving long-term growth while improving efficiency across the organization supported by process improvement initiatives.
Despite the recent market volatility and global macroeconomic weakness we are encouraged by improving economic fundamentals throughout our core markets.
Although the recovery remains uneven we expect increased capital spending activity will drive GDP growth in 2015.
Finally we are encouraged and been pleased with the recent analysis of positive actions by couple of our credit rating agencies.
We believe these actions reflect meaningful improvements in the number of credit quality metrics and our overall risk profile.
We are committed to maintaining a strong risk management culture and these rating upgrade are further evidence of our continued progress.
I will now turn it over to David for a closer look at our third quarter results and then we will take your questions.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Let's take a look at the detail starting with balance sheet.
Loan balances totaled $77 billion at the end of the third quarter an increase of $94 million from the end of the previous quarter.
The consumer lending portfolio drove increase as growth in business lending moderated early in the quarter as Grayson indicated.
Total consumer lending increased $120 million linked quarter as production increased 2%.
The growth in the consumer portfolio was led by indirect auto lending as balances increased 4% from the prior quarter.
We continue to benefit from the robust market for auto sales as well as from the process improvements instituted earlier in the year.
As a result we expect further growth in this portfolio.
Credit card balances increased $19 million or 2% from the previous quarter.
This increase stems from a 4% increase in active card users.
Today our marketing efforts have primarily targeted our existing customer base.
As a result we continue to make progress as our penetration rate is up 200 basis points to 15% over the last year and we expect growth in balances to continue in the near term.
Mortgage balances were up modestly this quarter as production increased 1% linked quarter.
Meanwhile total home equity balances declined $96 million as loan payoffs continued to outpace new production.
However total home equity production increased 13% from the previous quarter as customers continue to take advantage of fixed rate home equity loans and variable rate home equity lines of credit.
Looking at business lending.
This portfolio totaled $48 billion at the end of the quarter an increase of 4% year-to-date.
Commercial and industrial loans grew $503 million or 2% from the prior quarter.
As Grayson mentioned competition remains intense in this space.
In addition we experienced loan payoffs related to customer mergers and acquisitions as well as refinancing activities occurring in the fixed income markets.
C&amp;I growth was led by the general industries group [ph] within the geographies as well as refinance.
Line utilization declined 40 basis points.
However commitments for new loans increased $1 billion or 2% and our pipelines remain strong.
Regarding investor real estate.
While ending balances were up 1% year-to-date at $6.8 billion the portfolio experienced a decline of 2% from the previous quarter.
Investor real estate remains an important part of our corporate bank strategy given our market presence in the Southeast.
However as previously noted we remain committed to our risk tolerance levels as it relates to this portfolio.
As such near-term growth is expected to be modest.
Based on what we know today and reflecting our current economic forecast we expect ending 2014 loan growth to be at the lower end of the 3% to 5% range.
Let's take a look at deposits.
Supported by our multichannel platform deposits continued to grow increasing $308 million during the third quarter.
Of note low-cost deposits grew by $492 million and continued to account for 91% of total deposits.
Deposit costs remained at historically low levels and totaled 11 basis points while total funding costs declined to 30 basis points in the quarter.
We continue to expect 2014 deposit growth to be in the 2% range for the year on a point-to-point basis.
Let's take a look at how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable basis was $837 million essentially flat versus the prior quarter.
However as anticipated our net interest margin declined six basis points to 3.18%.
Net interest income benefited from an additional day in the quarter as well as from a modest increase in the securities portfolio.
Net interest margin was negatively impacted by approximately three basis points due to higher levels of cash and the additional day.
Both net interest margin and net interest income were negatively impacted by lower asset yields as maturities and paydowns and loans and securities are replaced at lower levels.
Asset yields are likely to continue to come under pressure if the current low interest rate environment persists.
Deposit and funding costs are expected to remain stable at historically low levels with limited opportunity to realize additional cost leverage.
Assuming rates remain at roughly current levels through the fourth quarter we expect to have net interest margin compression of one to three basis points and net interest income growth will primarily be driven by growth in loans.
In terms of our interest rate sensitivity we remain asset sensitive and expect net interest income to benefit from increases in short term or longer term rates.
More specifically a 100 basis point parallel shift in rates would increase net income by approximately $160 million in the first year.
Total non-interest revenue increased 5% to $478 million in the third quarter.
Service charges increased 4% from the second quarter and card and ATM fees increased 1%.
Credit card income benefited from a 2% increase in spending volumes.
Now with respect to posting order as we previously stated we plan to begin following a chronological approach in select markets during the first quarter next year.
The results from these tests will be used to inform our posting order process and customer communications.
We do not expect to fully implement these changes until the second half of 2015.
However through our current modeling efforts we estimate the impact from these changes to be in the range of $10 million to $15 million per quarter.
It is important to understand that the modeling assumes a static environment and there are numerous policies including funds availability that impact fee revenue.
Mortgage income was down 9% from the previous quarter primarily related to lower mortgage servicing rights and related hedge income.
Although servicing income has been relatively consistent we continue to look for opportunities to grow this revenue source.
We currently have approximately $40 billion of mortgages in our servicing portfolio and have the operational capacity to take on additional volume.
While mortgage production declined in 2014 the pace of our decline has less than the industry.
Originations continue to be driven by new home purchases and represented on average 73% of total originations this year.
And looking ahead the Mortgage Bankers Association estimates that mortgage origination should increase 5% to 10% in 2015 and we expect to continue to outpace industry estimates.
Capital markets income increased $8 million from the previous quarter primarily related to an increase in activity in real estate capital markets.
This increase reflects the revenue increase from investments we have made to expand our capital markets capabilities.
Let's move on to expenses.
Adjusted expenses were flat from the previous quarter.
Salaries and benefits increased $13 million from the previous quarter as headcount increased 183 positions.
The majority of these positions are in revenue-generating or revenue support roles and include hires in specialty lending insurance wealth management and platform personnel and will drive future growth in revenue.
The remaining portion of the increase continues to be primarily from hires of support staff particularly in risk management and compliance functions.
With that said we continue to closely monitor personnel resources which has resulted in a reduction in headcount of 656 positions year-to-date.
Credit expenses have been particularly low for several quarters as we have benefited from loan sales out of our held-for-sale portfolio.
The opportunity for gains will diminish as the balances in the portfolio decline.
This quarter we also incurred expenses related to Visa Class B shares sold in prior years which resulted in $7 million of additional expense in the third quarter.
Furniture and equipment related expenses increased primarily related to investments in technology including systems enhancements and data management solutions.
Additionally we benefited from a recovery to expenses related to unfunded commitments of $24 million which was primarily due to a large credit line that funded that was subsequently resolved during the quarter.
The adjusted efficiency ratio improved by 60 basis points to 63.6% in the third quarter as we remain committed to driving efficiencies across the organization.
While some quarter-to-quarter volatility is to be expected we continue to expect full year 2014 adjusted expenses to be lower than those of 2013.
Moving on to asset quality.
Our overall asset quality remained solid as many credit metrics improved in the quarter.
Our nonperforming loans declined 7% linked quarter.
In addition at quarter-end our loan-loss allowance to nonperforming loans or coverage ratio was 141% up from 137% last quarter.
Total delinquencies declined 4% and troubled debt restructurings or TDRs meaningfully declined 7% driven by both refinancing activity and paydowns.
In addition both criticized and classified loans declined from the prior quarter.
Net charge-offs totaled $75 million representing 39 basis points of average loans.
The provision for loan losses was $24 million or $51 million less than net charge-offs and based on what we know today we expect favorable asset quality trends to continue.
However at this point in cycle volatility in certain metrics can be expected.
Let's move on to capital and liquidity.
We continue to maintain industry-leading capital levels.
At the end of the quarter our estimated Tier 1 ratio stood at 12.7% and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio was 11.8%.
Further we estimate our fully phased-in Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio to be at 11.2%.
As previously mentioned we expect to begin executing our $350 million share repurchase program shortly as we previously planned.
And just a quick note regarding preferred stock expense for the third quarter.
due to the timing of our April issuance the first coupon period was longer than future coupon periods and resulted in additional expense of approximately $4 million.
Going forward with the current level of preferred stock outstanding the run rate for preferred stock expense will be approximately $16 million per quarter.
Liquidity at both the bank and the holding company remains solid with a loan to deposit ratio of 81%.
And regarding the liquidity coverage ratio rule Regions' funding base and investment portfolio are well-positioned to receive optimal treatment based on the high quality liquid asset definition.
Importantly our Regions 360 approach supports deepening customer relationships which provides an LCR friendly platform for the ratio calculation.
Overall we are pleased with certain adjustments made to the final rule and expect to be fully compliant by the January 2016 deadline without meaningful changes to our balance sheet.
In summary our third quarter results continue to reflect our steady progress in growing revenue while maintaining a disciplined risk culture.
We believe that by focusing on our customers' needs while prudently managing risk we will drive long-term sustainable growth and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Thank you for your time and attention this morning and I will now turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
In order to accommodate as many of you as possible this morning I would like to ask each caller to please limit yourself to one primary question and then one related follow-up question.
Now let's open the line for questions operator.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning.
Hi it's actually Jessica Ribner in for Paul.
How are you? Hi Jessica.
Good morning.
Good morning.
It sounds like just from your comments you sound more positive about 2015 than 2014 in terms of loan growth and earnings.
Do you feel like you can improve on today's loan growth into next year? What are you guys seeing? Well as you look at third quarter we said in our prepared remarks we saw a moderation of loan demand in the July and August and then we saw loan demand strengthen to some degree in September.
We continue to see that strengthening of loan demand into the fourth quarter.
Certainly we are encouraged by that.
I would say the moderation in the early part of quarter was a mixture of both the number of merger and acquisition transactions where we either were not the bank of the acquirer or we were the bank of both and had to reduce our hold positions on those.
But we also saw an overall reduction in demand and the related production as a result of that demand.
And so there were a number of one-off transactions that we would not have anticipated in terms of payoffs or paydowns but I would say generally in July and August we saw reduced demand.
That obviously concerned us early in the quarter but it restrengthened in September.
And if the trend continues I think it is a very good sign for 2015 and obviously gives us the opportunity to perform at a higher level if that trend continues and at this juncture we have no reason to believe it will not.
Okay thanks so much.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Good morning Betsy.
Hi good morning.
Hello.
Yes good morning.
Okay.
A couple of questions on the overdraft.
You indicated that based on the testing that you have done that starting third quarter of 2015 you would expect to see $10 million to $15 million drop in your OD fees.
Could you give us some color behind the analysis you did to get to that estimate and maybe also indicate what the total OD fees are and let us know if you are going to be offsetting any of that revenue shrinkage with other actions? Well I will start and then I will let David add to that.
We spent the last several months making a number of fairly significant modifications to our deposit systems in order to accommodate posting order changes as well as to accommodate the testing and forecasting of those changes.
All of those modifications have gone well and we are in a much better position today to understand what the implications of these changes might be.
We will start piloting a number of these changes and in general without getting too deep into the details our approach is very much of a chronological-based approach to posting and our early numbers would indicate as David said that we could realize $10 million to $15 million a quarter reduction in service charges.
That being said you know we realize that it's our job to figure out how to mitigate those service charge reductions.
A lot of it is going to depend on customer behavior but also we are looking at all of our deposit related products on how we price those products and how we deliver those products and we continue to believe that as we have in the past as we make changes like this to find ways to mitigate those leakages if you will of non-interest revenue.
We had a good strong and honest revenue quarter this quarter and so we think we are making some of the rights changes.
David? Yes Betsy we really wanted to put something out there on posting order.
It's a question we get frequently.
It is based on running some models today but we really need to see what the customer behavior is going to be before we know and we will update you when we know.
But we want to frame it up a little bit for you and just try to hit off the continued question there.
I will tell you that through a lot of changes that have happened in our industry we have had almost $400 million worth of revenue taken out of our company that we have had to overcome and we created new products and services and we will do the same thing here as well.
So the team is working hard to grow our revenue regardless of changes that we see whether it be posting order or other changes we have to deal with.
And so we don't have specifics on this just yet but we will continue to update you and find ways to mitigate this revenue and we will give you as we get closer and run the pilot we will give you better information to hone in on this number.
Yes I guess just if you can share with us anything regarding some of the assumptions that are behind the $10 million to $15 million.
Is it a reduction in fee waivers? This is obviously a less bad number than some folks had been wondering or estimating out there.
So I am just wondering if you could help us with some of those details? Well I think that clearly as we went through our most recent assumptions and testing that we have assumed a pretty static environment and that we are not putting assumptions in the model today that would be indicative of customer behavioral changes.
We are assuming behavior to continue the way they have.
We are not putting assumptions in there that we have less account attrition which is a potential.
If this policy for some customers will be perceived as more friendly then you could argue that there is some account retention benefit but we haven't modeled that in.
So I think we have taken a very conservative approach to how we have modeled this.
That being said the best numbers will come when we actually pilot this in the first quarter and that pilot is really going to give us a much clearer view of that.
I think that the primary issue in our part is being very transparent with our customers making sure that we understand how this impacts customers and making sure that we don't lose our momentum in growing accounts as we have been throughout 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
I was just wondering about the buyback.
Is your intention to utilize the full $350 million in buybacks over the remaining two quarters of the CCAR period? That's what's in the plan yes.
Okay and then switching gears to the ready advance.
Could you update us on how much the ready advance fees might have been in the third quarter? I believe it was $6 million [ph] PPNR in the second quarter.
And how does that trend in the third? And what's the time line for that going away? Yes.
So the change in the third quarter and the second quarter a pretty similar numbers that we had previously spoken about.
By the end of the year we will have converted everybody or stopped the ready advance program.
Really by the end of November we will have discontinued that.
And we put forth other options for those existing customers in the ready advance product that they have today.
If you have you recall we stopped offering the product in January of this year.
And we are going through a couple of conversions.
We broke the customer base up into segments.
We are going to do a couple of conversion follow those conversions to be completed before the end of the year.
And I would say that the drop off you saw from first quarter to second quarter was predominantly because of reduced enrollments.
We took enrollments to zero.
The drop off you saw.
Really from second to third quarter had to do with some limited amount of conversions.
We still have of the customers that we had in that product probably 60% of those customers are still active today but all of those customers will be converted as David said nearly end of November.
None of that will be in our run rate for the first quarter.
There will still be a limited amount in our run rate for the fourth quarter.
Yes in that product.
In that product.
But they will be taking other products and then we will have loose revenue from NIR up into NII and that will be based on adoption rates for those customers.
Okay and that should happen partially in the fourth and then again in the first? Yes.
That's correct.
Okay and then just to clarify Betsy's on the posting order changes we assume that $10 million to $15 million.
We should start that in the third quarter of next year? We will have very limited amount in the first half of the year and the rest of that the balance of that will be in the third and fourth quarter of next year.
And that's the plan right now.
We will learn through our -- We will learn through the pilot.
Through the pilot.
So we are giving you the best information we have today and when the rights come back we will modify accordingly.
Okay.
Thank you.
And one more thing on the buyback David.
Just anything you mentioned the $350 million buybacks are in the plan.
Is there anything that would prevent you from doing that that you can foresee? No.
I don't.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Matt.
Hi guys.
I guess I will circle back on the expenses.
Obviously good progress here and as we think about the full year guidance is down year-over-year.
You have been down pretty materially year-to-date.
So maybe boxing it in a little bit more for the fourth quarter if you are comfortable doing so and then thinking about the trajectory for next year? Yes Matt.
We are still working on next year.
We will update you on that as we get closer towards the end of the year.
We have a couple of conferences coming up.
We will let everybody know.
As it relates to our general philosophy as you know we are wanting to generate positive operating leverage.
We have one of the lowest expense bases but that being said we focus on it quite a bit.
That does not prevent us from making investments where we see the need to do that.
As I mentioned in my prepared comments we increased positions about 183 million this quarter and we put most of that in our revenue-producing our revenue support roles because we think that's the right thing to do.
And at times you will see the expense come before the revenue.
We had the same issue about this time last year where we have tried to indicate we were going to make some investments.
We feel very good about that.
And so long-term we think we are doing the right thing.
Yes Matt.
We really are trying to take a very balanced approach both from a revenue and expense standpoint.
We realize that there clearly are investments that we have to make to grow and to manage our business better.
But there is also opportunities for us to continue to increase the efficiency of our company.
And so we take this very balanced approach to it to try to if you will fund our investments through savings efficiencies.
We have been very aggressive as you know over the last several years in branch rationalization.
We do that on an annual basis.
We are going through that process now as we speak.
And we are being more rigorous more disciplined about that this year.
Over the past seven years we have closed a little over 19% or consolidated a little over 19% of our branch offices.
You will see us continue to leverage that process to drive even more efficiency through our company.
We still believe that branch is a very relevant channel.
We are investing in all of our channels including the branch channel.
But we also believe that we have to manage those channels pretty dynamically.
And so as David said as we get closer to the end of the year through the appropriate opportunities we look to update you on some of our cost efficiency initiatives.
And we realize in this kind of a low rate environment that we have got to continue to drive that forward.
As we think specifically about the third quarter expense base of the adjusted $826 million is that a reasonable kind of run rate or base? Or should we gross that out for the provision for unfunded credit losses that was a credit? Matt we are not giving you -- you have to build your run rate expectations.
We only give specific guidance here.
But I do think you need to factor in the unfunded commitment because that's a credit one-time credit that may or may not recur.
And as you can tell if you look at that other expense line item we have pretty lumpy and its because of that expense and unfunded commitment.
So that's $24 million going one way.
We did have the Visa expense of $7 million that went the other way.
And that shouldn't be recurring every quarter.
But we have had that from time to time.
So that's lumpy as well.
That's a net $17 million that I think you ought to consider as you evaluate what you think our run rate would be.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Good morning Marty.
Hi guys.
I had a couple of different questions.
One is with the rating agency changes positively David do you think you can become a little more aggressive maybe and maybe using excess capital to start pulling down those debt cost and refinancing your debt given the improvement you are seeing there? Marty that's a great question.
We look at trying to get more efficient if you will from that funding cost standpoint.
As you know we pay a little over 5% after considering swaps whatever page it is in our supplement.
We look at that all the time and when the economics are right notwithstanding rating agencies if it makes economic sense for us to do that we would love to take that out use our capital as you mentioned and have a better run rate going forward.
But it has to make economic sense.
And as the rates have continued to come down it's gotten a little less economical for us but we look at it literally every day.
So your comment is spot on.
From a rating agency standpoint we have gotten some improvement now with the rating agencies.
And you know we are looking to leverage hopefully over time even better ratings as we deal with our customers and also as we deal with getting our debt structure if you will as efficient and low-cost as we can.
And then Grayson we talked earlier this year about the strategy of how you are looking at your customers differently in the sense of what they like what types of customers they were and you were talking about growing your customer base and deepening relationships.
How are you seeing your new approach to the market and the customers as an advantage now to maybe serve a little bit more the underserved mass market in your markets? Yes Marty as we have spoken before we are servicing a little over four million households today.
We have about a little over five million customers.
And we are constantly trying to think through ways that we can be innovative from a product for delivery standpoint to increase our satisfaction and our delivery of customer needs and we have offered a number of alternative products to try to bank more of the unbanked or underbanked.
Obviously we have a lot of competition in that space.
And as you may recall we introduced a suite of banking products directed right at that segment called Now Banking.
And our Now Banking accounts for some 460 000 customers that we have added to that product suite.
And we continue to see progress.
As you saw from our numbers this time we are growing households growing accounts.
We have got a number of borrowing segments that are growing as well as our depository segments are growing.
We believe we are making good progress.
I would tell you it is early though as we have rolled out this new strategy.
And that I would say we are in the early innings of this.
But the progress is good.
And recently to try meet the liquidity needs of some of our customer segments we rolled out a secured savings lending product and already have some 25 000 customers who registered for that product.
So we are still trying to innovate in an environment that will meet customer needs.
And I think your question is a great question because at the end of the day the only way to have a sustainable business is to be able to grow our customer base.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning.
David I was wondering your comments about I know this is wrapped up into your general NIM guidance but can you talk to us about if rates stay as low as they are the impact from the 10-year whether it's on what your go-to reinvestment yields are where premium amortization was this quarter and where it goes and any effect on the pension expense for next year? Yes I will start with the last one first.
So pension clearly is rate driven and we will have seen what that looks like.
I would caution you we were through the low last year about this time and rates kind of spiked towards the end of the year which helped everybody's pension calculation.
So it's a little premature but you are spot on.
A lower rate environment does cause an increased net net of pension expense.
So we are going to watch that.
It's too early to give you guidance on it.
It will be embedded in what we give you later on in the year when we start going to last couple of conferences.
I think from out from an overall NIM standpoint rates are lower than what we had anticipated.
Right now we have done a lot of modeling to figure out what that might mean to us.
And we have given you the guidance for the fourth quarter in that one to three which may persist into to the first quarter.
So we think we can do that one to three making even through that first quarter.
And I will tell you Ken this has been so volatile.
We just need to wait and give us a little bit of time and see what happens.
If you look at really the domestic economy everything points to a higher rate environment but you have to start factoring in the geopolitical issues that are going on the economies around the world.
And so we are in a tough spot.
And then of course what is the Fed going to do over time.
So we think we believe rates will increase at some point timing of which is uncertain.
We continue to be asset sensitive.
We think that's the right thing to do.
But if rates stay low longer we will continue as everybody else will have pressure on NII and resulting margin.
So that one of the three right now I think could carry us a couple of quarters.
And within that can you just tell us what the premium amortization number is for this quarter? And is any change to that built into your outlook? It is.
Our premium amortization did increase a bit over the quarter.
We were at about $40 million of amortization this quarter and I think last quarter it was $36 million.
So it did you pick up a bit.
But that is built into our overall guidance.
Okay and then my other question just is about you have still a couple of sizable loan categories that continue to shrink well past I think anyone's original expectations whether it's the owner-occupied bucket the commercial real estate mortgage and then the second-lien home equity.
Any line of sight in terms of finally getting to the bottom on those categories from an originations versus runoff perspective? Ken let's take owner-occupied real estate.
That generally is our small business customer.
And small business formation has been down in 2014 quite a bit.
And we really need to see and want to see the demand from that customer.
It is our bread and butter.
It is really a segment that we can demonstrate our Regions 360 that we talked about just a minute ago with Marty's question and a lot of services that that customer base needs.
The problem is we just don't see that demand.
We see reluctance as we talk to those customers in terms of wanting to borrow for expansion given all the uncertainty that exists whether its political whether its domestic whether its what's going on in Europe Ebola.
All kinds of issues are factoring in into the concerns of the small business owner.
So we are going to work really hard.
Have been.
We are going to step it up even more so in terms of that owner-occupied base to deal with what the main issue is and that is amortization.
Those have a tendency to be term loans that amortize.
And so you have to have production going just to stay even.
So we think we can slow that decline.
In the home equity second-lien a lot of that has been refinanced away.
Some of it's deleveraging by the consumer.
We have started to see that pace to decline slower than it has been over the early part of the year.
Some of that has gone into our new product our home equity loan product.
And so we think those are the two we hope over time in the balance of 2015 that we see those declines slow down and that married with the production we think we can have a reasonable forecast of loan growth in 2015.
That of which we will update you on again towards the end of the year.
For all that color David appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
The first one just to go back to the buybacks and I was curious about your thinking behind buybacks.
Why you didn't buy back any stock it looks like in Q2 and Q3? Clearly you had the authorization in place certainly for this quarter.
But how are you thinking about buybacks? You are going to buy back more stock but why didn't you buyback anything in Q2? If you would just help me think about that given that loan growth I don't think it was particularly strong.
So were you anticipating faster growth? And how should we think about that? It just seems like you have a lot of excess capital here.
A perspective would be helpful.
I will say a few words and ask to do it.
We put our capital plan together roughly a year ago.
It was in the fourth quarter last year and we put that capital plan together.
We clearly had to make some assumptions around what we thought the forecast for economic activity was going to be.
And quite frankly some of the things have turned out better than we forecasted some worse.
Clearly economy's recovery been slower than we anticipated.
Our organic loan growth has not been as strong as we had thought that would potentially be at that point in time.
And alternative investments have not turned out to be as strong as we might have liked.
That being said we were very confident in our plan.
We felt like it gave us an awful lot of flexibility.
We thought it put us in a position to continue to strengthen our balance sheet strengthen our capital position and we were confident in that plan and we have been executing that plan.
And as David said now we are at the point where we are ready to finish off the task that we had put into that plan.
I know there has been some questions about why we planed it that way and why we backend loaded this.
But again we used the best forecast we thought we had and we still are confident that was a good plan.
David? Yes.
I think going into the year loan growth if you go back to the first quarter loan growth was more robust for us.
We really want to deploy our capital to grow our business.
We think that's why the shareholders gave us the capital to begin with and giving it back to the shareholders is what we will do when we haven't been able to deploy it otherwise.
So we put it intentionally in the back half or in the back half of the plan.
And we had no objection to that plan and we are executing in accordance with that.
Once you build a plan and submit the plan that's what the plan is.
There is not really an opportunity to go back and change that plan easily.
So we are going to execute of course with it.
And you should see us wrap that up by the first quarter of 2015.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then I am going to ask you a question that's more of a high-level question and one that I could probably ask CEOs of other banks as well Grayson.
But what I would love to get your perspective on is that you and other banks have been focused on the efficiency ratio and lowering expenses.
And of course I think in any cycle any given point in time banks would like to be more efficient rather than less efficient.
I think that goes without saying.
But having said that as you think about your business and you think about the environment we are in it sounds like you might with your reductions in headcount and this probably applies more generally across the board it suggests that you and other CEOs really aren't very optimistic at all about growth going forward.
And I know the hope is that interest rates at some point will increase and give a top-line benefit.
But having said that from a business planning standpoint how do you think about continuing to reduce headcount going forward in terms of running the business? You seem to be planning for more of a continued slowdown going forward.
Is that accurate? And I would just love to get your thoughts on that.
Thank you.
I appreciate the question.
I think it's a great question.
I think its one that a lot of banks are trying to answer.
I think my answer would be more optimistic than the picture you just painted.
I think that we are seeing the opportunity to grow our business.
We are seeing in the markets we operate in given the strengths of the market that we operate in we believe we have got an opportunity to grow our business.
And we do believe that while the economy is improving slowly it still is improving.
And we are seeing signs of that improvement across all of our markets.
I have said it internally and I will say it externally.
We have made a lot of progress but we still have a lot of work to do.
I don't believe we have even started to really demonstrate what the power this franchise can be going forward.
I think the progress we have made in 2014 really lays a solid foundation for what we could potentially do in 2015.
But we are growing customers.
We are growing households.
We are growing our business.
I think the third quarter was slower from a loan demand than we had anticipated.
But if the trend continues we are more optimistic for the fourth quarter knowing what we know today.
So all that being said as optimistic as we all are we still have to be prudent and I think that we have to have this balanced approach to both investing to grow but looking for efficiencies around the company that allow us to if you will be to be able to hedge that forecast.
Yes.
I would add.
I do think that the investments in people that we made mentioned I mentioned that on the comments roughly 183 during the quarter but we have done some things to cut back on headcount.
So we had consolidated 30 branches.
We started that in the fourth quarter last year finished up in the first quarter of 2014.
And when we do that we have a reduction in staffing levels as a result of that.
So that's an example of where we use our excess capital.
We would take a charge for that but then we were able to consolidate get a reasonably quick payback as we consolidate and take those customers from one branch into another.
So just looking at headcount numbers can be a little misleading in terms of what our commitment is to grow our business because we believe our biggest opportunity is revenue growth and we will get that by making prudent investments in people and businesses going forward.
Well there is not just people.
Our physical footprint we are down under 15 million square feet.
We continue to find opportunities to reduce our physical footprint by 10% to 15% a year.
And we think that continues.
We are operating in a smaller physical presence.
A lot of our branches are smaller.
We have fewer branches.
We also are doing the same thing in office space in our back office as we continue to consolidate space and there is number of different examples of the way we are trying to make sure that we get efficiency across the company.
Okay.
Thank you again.
I appreciate your responses.
I know I could have asked that of pretty much any CEO and your perspective is very helpful.
And then just a last quick one if I may.
Your capital markets pipeline going into Q4 I know the revenues were up a little bit but do you see that spend continuing into Q4? Thank you.
Yes.
I think we have made a pretty sizeable investment in people and product in our capital management group and in our capital markets group and obviously one of the bigger products in that group is in this interest rate environments not been there for us.
But the I think a little movement in rates and we could see a lot more production out of that group but nevertheless with investments we have made we continue to think we are grow the revenue out of that business.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Hi good morning.
Just going back to the expenses how should we think about the environmental cost? Are we back close to kind of pre-cycle normalized levels? Are there some more levers that you can pull to reduce some of those costs? Well Michael we always can reduce costs and build efficiencies.
We do that.
We have a whole team and that's what they are focused on.
Helping each business each support area look at how we might improve workflow it gets harder from where we are.
We have worked over the past few years reducing our overall expenses to support our business but that being said we can continue to do that.
Over time we mentioned our overall efficiency ratio being with a rate increase in the 55% to 60% area.
We are at 63% and change today.
We have a group that we invested in.
It's a Six Sigma group that is looking for top process improvement to do two things one to increase revenue and we mentioned that I think on our last call where we have changed process and helped us increase revenue in things like indirect auto.
And we have also use them to help from an efficiency standpoint on the cost side.
So I think we can always look at how to improved there.
We have had changes in our OREO and held-for-sale kind of credit related expenses there.
We had some benefits gains on sale that don't repeat.
And those are harder to replace.
We do focus on consulting expense.
We focus on our legal expenses.
In all those we have opportunities to continue to wind down or reduce overtime.
And Michael I would tell you and I would agree with everything that David said but there is one additional area.
If you look at the investment we have made in risk management and compliance this industry has faced a lot of new rules.
And as we have gone through those new rules and regulations we have used awful lot of human resource to ensure compliance with those rules and regulations and as we have opportunity to invest in technology and recognized a lot of these processes there is going to be some efficiencies and that's a tremendous effort on part of our company today is to find out how we can improve compliance and risk efficiencies through automation.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Grayson as a follow-up you have historically talked about having a more balanced loan mix between business and consumer.
Can you update us on any sort of thoughts there and what the puts or takes are in getting there over time? Thanks.
We have been stating that desire strategically for some time that we would love to achieve a greater balance between business and consumer on our balance sheet in terms of loans outstanding.
We have made a tremendous number of investments in the consumer lending products to try to accelerate that remixing if you will of the balance sheet.
As you have seen we have not been particularly successful at that.
There has been more demand on the business loan side of our customer base.
And as a consequence our progress in that regard has been somewhat muted.
Long-term we still have that as a strategic desire on our part to achieve a better mix.
That being said we have to take advantage of what the market offers us in any given economy.
And so still a goal that we are working on but not there yet.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning Erika.
Good morning.
My first question just on the LCR David.
How much is the securities portfolio going to grow as you march towards compliance in 2015? Or are we really going to see a remix of your balance into HQLA? And I assume that the one to three basis points in terms of forward guidance for the NIM considers that? Yes Erika.
It did in fact consider that.
We see very little change in mix.
I was trying to address that earlier in my comments that we have pretty large securities book.
We were happy with the rules that came out.
And we don't see any problem becoming compliant 2016 without any meaningful changes to our balance sheet mix.
So you shouldn't expect any type of significant change or increase in our securities book.
Got it and just wanted to follow up to Ken's question.
Another institution had helped us think about the potential incremental cost of funding your pension next year by giving us some guidance for every 25 basis point in increase in the discount rate that that would turn into an incremental cost of X.
Could you similarly help us think about that impact next year? We will.
I don't have that committed to memory.
We do have some sensitivity in our 10-K that would be a little helpful in terms of what the change in the discount rate does.
So that would be place that you could go look.
But I will have List and Dana follow-up on that.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning Grayson.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just David maybe a question for you.
You noted that a 100 basis point increase in the curve would generate about $160 million of incremental NII.
If I am reading the 10-Q correctly that's up from about $111 million three months ago.
Could you give us a little more color as to what the components were that drove that increase? Matt I am not sure what you are looking at.
You should have actually seen it come down.
We had about 6% change in NII as a result of 100 basis parallel shift which was about $190 million the quarter before coming down to about $160 million.
I think it is with that should -- we will go back and take a look at that.
But we essentially took a little bit of our asset sensitivity off with trying to protect ourselves a little bit on the down rate environment.
It proved to be the right move given where we are today.
But I think that we are still pretty asset sensitive at about 5% of NII.
So we took one point off and round numbers from the second to third quarter.
Okay my apologies.
I will follow up with List on that.
And then just on fee revenue a couple of the other banks that have already reported have suggested even though it's very early days in the fourth quarter the lower rate environment has actually generated some positive growth in refinancing volume.
And I am curious if you can give us some color as to how you are thinking about the mortgage banking fee revenue line heading into the fourth quarter.
Absolutely we have been looking at the mortgage rates and the opportunity as the rates have moved to a more favorable position for that business that the refinance opportunity could accelerate.
I would say that we haven't seen that shift yet but we do anticipate that if the rates continue to stay at this level for over the next few weeks we will see an increase in refinance.
As you may recall refinance has been a lower percentage of our production than most of our peers.
And so it will probably have a more muted impact on us than some of the peers that you are looking at but we do anticipate an increase in refinance activity.
But it is also makes home affordability for the repurchase better as well.
So we think it's good for the mortgage business.
I will ask David to give any specific comments on it.
Yes.
I think one we need to let this settle a bit and see whether the mortgage rates actually following and for how long.
It takes a while for all that to get into the market.
Clearly if you are resetting 15-year rates in the three range or below and 30-year rates in four range or slightly underneath that you will see another way to refinance activity.
If you look at our supplement on page nine you will see our refinance activity did pick up a bit in the third quarter.
We are up about 7% from where we were in the second quarter.
Hard to tell though whether that was just really rate driven or just normal activity coming through in the third quarter.
So we are looking into that.
We will give you better guidance as we see what the impact might be.
Okay.
That's helpful color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Gerard.
Good morning.
The first question just circling back to your comments about loan growth.
Clearly on a year-over-year basis the loan growth has been very muted and it's below the industry loan growth as evidenced by the H8 data we receive from the Federal Reserve on a weekly basis.
Would you say that the slower loan growth is more due to your customers? You indicated some of your customers are still concerned about the operating environment.
Or is it more your more conservative underwriting standards that you are using that maybe your competitors are not? I think it's really a combination of factors.
I think one is that most of the loan growth over the past several quarters has been in the upper end of commercial middle market and into the corporate space which we were very active there but candidly the bulk of our businesses has been in the middle market and into the small business owners.
We mentioned a moment ago I think David spoke about it we have not seen the strength of the small business owner come back yet like we have other parts of the business.
So I think one just a mix of our customer base has caused us to be a little bit more muted or more moderate than some of our competitors.
I think also given what this organization has gone through over the past several years we are just very disciplined very prudent about credit underwriting at this juncture.
And so we would attribute part of our differential between some of the peers to be the credit culture that we have tried to build at this company.
And I think the third issue and we alluded to it earlier there were a number of one-off transactions in the third quarter that we had not anticipated and were not normal part of our portfolio and that was a factor.
And I think the last point was that we did just see and I think many of our competitors acknowledge this as well as third quarter was more moderate than anticipated.
All that being said again we are pretty optimistic at this juncture given the way the last month of the quarter performed and the way the early days in the next quarter are starting to perform.
So we feel better today about where the economy is headed.
Grayson have you seen any evidence obviously you guys monitor your customer base very carefully over the years that you are actually losing customers to competitors because they are being much more aggressive in their underwriting standards? No I would say that we think that our numbers would indicate very clearly we are still growing our customer base and still deepening the relationships we have with existing customers.
We spend an awful lot of time not only analyzing transactions that we win but also transactions we lose.
And quite frankly we aren't winning as many prospect transactions as we would like to.
And that's probably true of every competitor we got.
We all are wanting to win new customer relationships.
It makes sense for the customer.
It makes sense for us.
I would say that we have seen more non-bank competitors enter into our space than we have seen before.
There is a tremendous amount of liquidity in the marketplace.
And so you do see not only competition from non-banks but you see the competition from the debt markets.
And that being said we have to complete and we have to adjust and we are doing that.
And our loan growth may be more moderate than we had anticipated but we still have growth and we still anticipate growing our outstandings.
And then my other question is on the capital.
Obviously your capital ratios are very strong with your Basel III Tier 1 number again over 11%.
Do you guys ever see a day when you can give back more of that so that it comes down to a number you are more comfortable with? You look at your return on equity today on a stated book basis and it's under 8%.
Your stock obviously trades at a discount to book suggesting you are not earning your cost of capital.
I know on a return on tangible common equity you are up over 9%.
But how do you get rid of all this excess equity? When you look out over the next three years let's say because I know CCAR has a lot to do with how much you can give back and you are limited to maybe your earnings in a current year.
But what do you guys envision on how to get rid of that excess equity to get that ROE up to a point where your stock and trade above book value? Yes.
Gerard this is David.
It's a great question and I will tell you I would rather have that problem than be on the other side of the fence.
I agree.
Which is where we were at a time.
So we do acknowledge that having excess capital is not doing any good and that we need to have an optimal capital stack.
That means not only in total but the components that make up that.
And we will adjust that over time in both the components of the capital stack as well as the share number.
It's obviously a little more difficult to work given how we have to approach capital at least how we perceive we need to approach capital relative to CCAR.
But how we manage our capital that's our call.
That's what our Board does.
We have a whole process and I do think over time you will see those capital numbers rationalize.
It will be through a combination of utilizing that capital to grow our business which is really what we want to do when the opportunity is there.
We talked about having acquisitions of product lines like we did our credit card portfolio a few years ago.
We looked at using that capital to buy non-banks and looking at bank acquisitions when those opportunities arise and then returning it to the shareholder so that we don't keep piling it up because we realize the return on tangible common over time with the denominator continuing to grow becomes pretty difficult.
So we will and do envision the time where we can rationalize.
But you look at it and I think we are in a transition phase.
Our capital planning process has gotten much formal much more sophisticated and our confidence in that capital planning process is much hard today and it continues to improve.
And at the same time we derisk our loan portfolio tremendously.
And so we have more confidence in how our loan portfolio will perform going forward.
All of those are things that give us confidence in how best to deploy capital and at what level to deploy.
As we get a better economy it would be our hope that we would have more organic opportunities to deploy that capital but also think as the economy recovers that we are going to have opportunities as David said to acquire and how you define what we acquire will be a mix of opportunities.
But I think at the end of the day if those things don't prove to fruition then we have the opportunity to return that to the shareholder in the form of dividends or buybacks.
And I think that we are in a transition that's a little bit uncertain but it gets more certain each and everyday.
Gerard I will add one last thing you mentioned cost of capital.
One of our goal clearly is to reduce our cost of capital and that comes with a good sustainable performance solid performance quarter in and quarter out such that our cash flows are more predictable and we think we have done that.
But the market is saying not quite yet.
And we hope over time the market realizes our sustainability of this cash flow to get our cost to capital down and again optimizing the capital stack would be another way to get that cost to capital down and we will do that.
Guys thank you very much.
Your question will come from Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
My questions have already been answered.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on margin.
Can you give a little more color on the increase in the interest-bearing deposit costs in the quarter? It looks like a couple of items went up including your CD costs by about four bips or so.
So I wanted to get a little bit detail on why we are starting to see a lift in some of these deposit items.
Yes.
There is really no story there.
That could just be mix on a given customer.
We have run some tests to try and see what might happen if we go a little longer on some CDs in particular to see what the markets acceptability to have some of those.
So that could be a piece of it.
But there is really not is big story there or a trend that you should expect going forward there.
But we have runs market test.
And obviously one of the risk we have is when rates go up what sort of pressure does that put on customer deposits and we have run a number of sensitivity tests in some markets to be able to prove our theories and so you will see some of the interest rate numbers individually go up a result of some of those.
But they are temporary nature and overall our deposit cost continues to remain stable.
Okay all right and then secondly also on the margin.
On the securities yields I just want to confirm that the bulk of that 11 basis points decline linked quarter what drove that and how much of that was premium amortization in terms of the bips impact on the yield? And then also curious about your new pricing? Or your pricing on your new auto loan originations or spreads if you can't give us the upfront yields? Thanks.
Yes.
So the securities yields they are down 11 basis points.
Obviously reinvesting in just a lower rate environment but the premium amortization is also about half of that number.
We did also shift out of corporate bonds as spreads changed and that we think that that was the right thing to do.
You see your corporate bond portfolio will have declined.
You asked about audit spreads.
There was really no change there.
Obviously it's a very competitive environment to be in indirect auto but we had about seven basis points contraction during the quarter but we still feel good about that overall yield and spread that we have.
I think you can just see -- those can change only dependent on what mix you are putting on the books.
But our overall yield on that indirect as you see in our supplement was $3.39 million versus $3.46 million last quarter.
Yes.
And as that market segments become more competitive we have adjusted our pricing strategies to ensure that we have got the right mix of tenure and rate and that it's appropriately risk-based priced.
And so you will see a little bit of shift in yield as adjust our strategy because we want to make sure that we are staying in the right part of that market.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I know the call is running long.
Your final question comes from the line of Richard Bove - Rafferty Capital.
Good morning Dick.
Hi good morning.
I am sorry to ask you a question after such a long meeting.
But I am looking at these peer-to-peer companies and considering the fact that apparently the GSEs are now going to buy mortgages that have 3% to 5% down payments and given your large if you will customer base in the we will say the under-banked I am wondering if a bank can get into the peer-to-peer business number one and number two if this reduction in the down payments to nonqualified mortgage levels allows some opportunity there? Dick you are really familiar with the markets we operate in across the Southeast and we think it's a valuable franchise because of those markets.
But we obviously operate in some real communities where the opportunities are a little different maybe than some of our peers see and I do think that there are ample opportunities in our market to be able to bank some customers that typically would not have qualified for mortgages.
And we have been we been very methodical about the way we have approached that market and prudent about it.
Obviously with the GSE we are going to change the rules.
We are watching that very closely with our peer.
We are reading some of the same reports you are.
It appears that they are pretty close to agreement on how do that and what the rules are on that.
And I think we are very interested if we can understand the rules and agree what risk we are taking if we can make the economics work out on it then we are encouraged.
And so I do think you are absolutely correct.
It's an opportunity for our franchise.
And the company I was thinking this lending club is about to go public.
And I was looking at the prospectus and they are charging up to 20% rate on people who have FICO scores in the mid-600s and they are not making the loans they are shifting the loan.
They are a facilitator so other people make these loans and they are taking in some cases as much as 6% overrides for finding the loans.
And I am just wondering would a bank ever be allowed to be a facilitator like that where it simply shifts the loans to other buyers and takes a fee for finding the customer underwriting a loan and sending it along? Well that's a great question and we have every one of these if you will technology based lending solutions whether its peer-to-peer or whether it's just that an origination position.
We have taken a hard look at every one of them and I think it's a good question.
Quite frankly we have got a number of competitors that their rules of engagement are different than ours.
And so you know today in our environment some of that type of lending I just think we have to stay away from.
But that being said there are still a lot of opportunities in that space and we have got a team of really talented people that continue to look at it.
We think innovation is a big part of how we bank the consumer going forward on both the deposit and the lending side.
And some of these solutions that you are seeing are going to play out and some of them are.
And it's our challenge trying to figure out who winners and losers are in that space.
Dick this is David.
You had mentioned really banking kind of funding somebody else.
What we would like to and are looking at is how those parties actually bring the customer to the table so that those are our customers where we can have a deeper relationship than whatever that one-off loan is.
And so that really seems to be the better alternative versus being a funding agent if you will for somebody else's customers.
But as Grayson mentioned things are changing pretty rapidly and we have to be able to adapt and deal with this on a prudent basis and obviously within the confines of our regulatory regime that we have.
But a lot of financial products are moving out of the traditional banking space and we have got to learn to compete with them but compete under the rules that we operate under.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
That's our last question.
And we appreciate everyone's participation everyone's interest we will stand adjourned.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
I would like to remind everyone that all participant phone lines have been placed on listen-only.
At the end of the call there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call this morning.
Our presenters today are Grayson Hall our Chief Executive Officer; and David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of our Executive Management Team are present and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the Appendix section of the presentation.
Grayson? Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We're pleased you could join us for this morning as we review our fourth quarter and our full year 2014 results.
This quarter we reported $195 million of net income available to common shareholders bringing our full year results to $1.1 billion of net income available to common shareholders and earnings per diluted share of $0.80 an increase of 4% over 2013.
Included in the earnings were some unusual items which David will address in his remarks.
Overall these results reflects steady progress in 2014 as we continue to focus on the fundamentals of banking and meeting customer needs through service and innovation while maintaining a prudent and disciplined risk culture.
In 2014 we grew loans and deposits.
We expanded our customer base.
We prudently managed expenses.
We improved asset quality and improved our capital ratios.
Loans increased to a total of $3 billion or 4% during 2014.
Importantly this growth was broad based with both the business and consumer loan portfolios increasing.
In 2014 deposits increased $2 billion or 2% while deposit cost reached historic lows.
Through the successful execution of Regions360 which is our prescriptive approach to relationship banking the number of quality households increased and we grew the number of checking savings credit card and wealth management accounts.
We believe this growth positions us well as we head into 2015.
We remain focused on achieving operational efficiencies and reduced full year expenses on an adjusted basis by 2% from the previous year.
An example of our efforts during the fourth quarter we made a decision to consolidate 50 branch offices or approximately 3% of our network in locations across our markets.
Over time we expect to add branches in higher opportunity markets such as St Louis Atlanta Houston and New Orleans.
Through improved technology these smaller branches will employ different staffing models and will be far more efficient.
In 2014 our asset quality continued to improve reflecting our continued prudent risk discipline practices.
In fact all our credit metrics experienced improvement in 2014.
As a result of this progress and citing improvement in our overall risk profile we received positive rating actions from four major credit rating agencies this past year.
Also during 2014 our capital returned to shareholders totaled approximately $500 million.
This included and increased our quarterly dividend as well as share repurchases.
With respect to future capital deployment as you are aware we submitted our capital plan earlier this month and expect to receive the result sometime in March.
Clearly we believe that our capital position is sufficient to support both the return of capital and strong organic growth.
With that said returning capital to shareholders is a top priority and given the strength of our current capital levels we believe is appropriate to increase our total payout ratio.
In 2015 in addition to effectively deploying capital we remain committed to generating positive operating leverage and keenly focused on revenue diversification.
Shifting to the economic environment I want to talk briefly about the recent declines in oil prices and its impact on our energy lending portfolio.
We're closely monitoring the price declines for direct and indirect impacts to our overall loan portfolio quality.
Our bank has extensive energy lending expertise dating back multiple decades and through numerous energy cycles.
Our core exploration and production loans at present are well secured and provide a collateral cushion to withstand price declines.
In terms of broader impact we have been monitoring markets such as Texas and the Gulf Coast for signs of weakness in employment and housing.
However we're not seeing any material weakness past this point in time.
We have provided additional detail regarding our energy portfolio in the appendix of the earnings presentation.
As we look ahead we expect improved growth in the U.S.
economy in 2015.
Low energy prices should provide a tailwind to consumer spending and the manufacturing sector.
However an uncertain global growth environment does pose some risk.
As a result we continue to expect an increase in short-term rates in the latter part of 2015.
With that I'll turn it over to David who will cover the details of the fourth quarter.
David? Thank you.
And good morning everyone.
I'll first take you through the fourth quarter details and then wrap up with expectations for 2015.
Loan balances totaled $77 billion at the end of the fourth quarter up $700 million or 1% from the end of the previous quarter.
Business lending finished the year strong totaling $48 billion at the end of the quarter.
This was an increase of $524 million or 1% from the third quarter as production increased 18%.
Commercial and industrial loans grew $875 million or 3% from the prior quarter.
This growth was driven by our specialized industries group as well as Regions' business capital.
Importantly line utilization increased 40 basis points.
Commitments for new loans increased 3% and our pipelines remain strong.
Regarding investor real estate ending balances were relatively steady from the previous quarter at approximately $7 billion.
As we have previously stated investor real estate remains an important part of our corporate bank strategy given our market presence in the South East.
Moving to consumer lending loans in this portfolio increased 1% linked quarter.
Growth in the consumer portfolio was led by indirect auto lending as balances increased 3% from the prior quarter.
While we benefitted from the robust market for auto sales process improvements instituted earlier in the year also contributed to the growth.
Credit card balance has increased $45 million or 5% from the previous quarter.
This improvement was driven by a 6% increase in spending as well as a 3% increase in active card holders.
Mortgage balances were up modestly.
Meanwhile total home equity balances were down slightly as the pace of loan payoffs was slightly higher than new production.
Total home equity production increased 10% from the previous quarter as customers continued to take advantage of lower rates on variable home equity lines of credit.
This quarter other consumer loans were up just over 1% as a result of the introduction of several new products and improved customer delivery.
Let’s take a look at deposit.
Supported by our multichannel platform total deposits continued to grow increasing $70 million during the fourth quarter.
Of note low-cost deposits grew by $242 million and continued to account for 91% of total deposits.
Deposit costs remained at historically low levels and totalled 11 basis points while total funding costs declined to 29 basis points in the quarter.
Let's take a look at how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable basis was $87 million.
Net interest margin was 3.17% a decline of one basis point from the third quarter.
Despite a continuation of low rate environment which exerted pressure on asset yields both net interest income and net interest margin remained relatively stable with the previous quarter.
Stability in both measures was largely attributable to higher average loan balances and lower cash balances.
Total non-interest income declined $30 million or 6% in the fourth quarter.
Services charges declined $40 million from the previous quarter and this was primarily due to a $4 million decline in fees resulting from a product discontinuation in the fourth quarter.
Additionally there was an $8 million reduction in revenue related to customer reimbursements.
Mortgage income was down $12 million from the previous quarter primarily due to lower gains from loan sales and a decline in the market valuation of the mortgage servicing portfolio net of hedging activity.
In the fourth quarter we purchased servicing rights on $833 million of loans bringing our total servicing portfolio to $40 billion.
We have the operational capacity to take on additional servicing volume and we’ll continue to look for opportunities to add volume to our servicing portfolio.
While mortgage production declined in 2014 the pace of our decline was less than the industry.
Originations continue to be driven by new home purchases and represented on average 70% of total originations in the fourth quarter.
Based on what we know today we expect mortgage production in 2015 to exceed that of 2014.
Capital markets income decreased $4 million quarter-over-quarter driven primarily by credit valuation adjustments on interest rate swaps.
Absent these adjustments capital markets income increased slightly from the prior quarter.
As we continue to build out our capital markets capabilities we believe that’s it indications in real estate capital markets represent opportunities for us.
Card and ATM fees increased as a result of higher spending and transaction volumes.
And wealth management income also increased and as a company continues to expand and deepen relationship with new and existing customers.
While we had experienced headwinds as it relates to non interest income growth we have several initiatives currently underway to offset these pressures.
As Grayson mentioned throughout 2015 we will focus on diversifying our revenue.
Let's move on to expenses.
Total expenses in the fourth quarter were $969 million an increase of $143 million which included some unusual items.
As a reminder there in the third quarter we benefited from the recovery of expenses related to unfunded commitments of $24 million.
This was partially offset by expenses related to Visa Class B shares sold in prior years which resulted in $7 million of additional expense in the third quarter.
As Grayson mentioned we intend to consolidate 50 branches in 2015 and incur related expense of $10 million during the fourth quarter.
We expect to incur additional related expenses of approximately $15 million in the first quarter of 2015 related to this consolidation.
Also at the end of the quarter we recorded an accrual of $100 million for contingent legal and regulatory items related to previously disclosed matters.
And although you may have additional questions please recognize that we cannot comment beyond this disclosure at this time.
Salaries and benefits remain flat from the previous quarter although headcount increased 124 positions.
Importantly the majority of these positions are revenue generating or revenue support roles and drive future growth in revenue.
Additionally we had incremental hires and capital planning and risk management this quarter.
However at this juncture we believe that hires of this nature are substantially complete.
Total credit expenses remained low.
However fourth quarter expenses increased slightly as a benefit related to gains from our held for sale portfolio diminished as balances declined along with the seasonal uptick in OREO property tax expense.
Outside services increased due to third party engagements to support risk management and capital planning functions.
However these third party expenses should begin to subside and I’ll talk about that in just a minute.
We remain diligent with respect to expense control but we have opportunistically invested in talent and technology to further accelerate our momentum to grow revenue.
Let's move on to asset quality.
Our overall asset quality remained solid as most credit metrics improved in the quarter.
Our nonperforming loans excluding loans held for sale declined 1% linked quarter.
In addition at quarter end our loan-loss allowance to nonperforming loans or coverage ratio was 133%.
Compared to the third quarter total delinquencies declined 11% and troubled debt restructuring or TDRs declined 6%.
In addition both criticized and classified loans declined from the prior quarter.
Net charge-offs totalled $83 million representing 42 basis points of average loans.
The provision for loan losses was $8 million or $75 million less than that charge-offs.
And based on what we know today we expect favorable asset quality trends to continue.
However at this point of cycle volatility and certain metrics can be expected.
Let's move on to capital liquidity.
We continue to maintain industry leading capital levels.
At the end of the quarter our estimated Tier 1 ratio stood at 12.5% and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio was 11.6%.
Further we estimate our fully phased in Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio to be 11.1%.
During the quarter we repurchased $248 million of stock as far as the Board approved program that totalled $350 million dollars.
We expect to complete this program during the first quarter of 2015.
The liquidity at the bank and the holding company remains solid with a low loan deposit ratio of 82%.
In regarding the liquidity coverage ratio Regions remains well positioned to be fully compliant with the January 2016 implementation.
Now throughout 2015 we will update customer agreements to include LCR friendly language to modify existing deposit products and we also plan to create new products and services to compliment our strong position of high quality liquid assets and it's important to note that no major balance sheet initiatives are necessary in a order for us to be compliant.
And now I want to take a few minutes and touch on our expectations for 2015.
We expect total loan growth in the 4% to 6% range.
Commercial investor loans are expected to drive the loan growth with the business lending portfolio - within the business lending portfolio.
Also we believe that investor real estate portfolio has reached a point of stabilization.
However growth will be limited as we remain committed to our risk tolerance levels as it relates to this portfolio.
Looking at the consumer lending book we expect continued growth from indirect auto lending.
We plan to continue to focus on driving better pull through rates increasing margins and improving overall credit profiles.
Additionally we are focused on expanding lending through online and point of sale financing alternatives directly and through partnership with third parties.
As a result we expect to pace our growth in the other consumer category to accelerate in 2015.
And moving onto credit card today our marketing efforts have primarily targeted our existing customer base.
As a result our penetration rate is up 190 basis points over the last year.
This increase coupled with an increase in sales of new cards should drive balanced growth in the near term.
We expect incremental growth and mortgage balances during 2015 as the pace of production should more than outpace refinancing activity.
From a production perspective consumer lending closed the year on a strong note.
In fact December was a strongest single production month of the year.
With respect to deposits balances should grow at similar rates as 2014.
As a reminder a significant portion of our deposits were made up of individual deposits which turn to be more granular smaller in size which based on our research should be more stable and less rate sensitive in a rising rate environment.
With deposit cost deposit and funding costs expected to remain stable at historically low levels there is limited ability to offset the continued effect of the low rate environment on margin.
That being said the net interest market would be expected to remain stable to trending higher in a moderately rising rate environment in 2015.
And if current market conditions prevail then net interest margin is expected to relatively stable next quarter.
However with rates at current levels the net interest margin would experience gradual pressure over the year.
For example if the ten year treasury yield would remain in the 175% to 2% range throughout 2015 we would expect 10 to 12 basis points of margin pressure.
From an NIR standpoint we expect this line item to grow in 2015 resulting from our investments that we have made in wealth management and in our corporate bank.
Specifically we made investment in insurance investment services institutional services and private wealth management.
Additionally our investments in capital markets Fannie Mae just is an example.
And new hires related to our power and utilities in financial services team and treasury management corporate banks are expected to pay off in 2015.
And finally mortgage should have a stronger 2015 than 2014.
From an expense standpoint we will continue to focus on our cost.
Our largest categories salaries and benefits occupancy and furniture and fixtures will be areas of focus in 2015.
In addition third party consulting cost is another area where we have opportunity to reduce those expenditures.
All-in-all we expect to generate positive operating leverage for 2015.
Now let me close by saying that 2014 was the year of solid progress and we are diligently focused on executing our strategies as we head into 2015.
With that we thank you for your time and attention this morning and now I'll turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thanks David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning I would please ask each caller to limit yourself to one primary question and one related follow-up question.
Now let's open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning.
Just I heard you loud and clear in terms of your NIR guidance for the year.
But I was wondering if we could get a little bit of clarity on the starting point.
This is the first question.
Is the $4 million decline in fees resulting from product discontinuation the final impact from that discontinuation? And is it fair for us to add back the customer reimbursements of $4 million and the CVA adjustment - the customer reimbursement of $8 million and the CVA adjustment of $4 million back to the 448.
Erika the discontinuation $4 million just about $3.5 million left there and that will be done.
And yes the $8 million should be non-recurring so that is - your conclusion is appropriate there.
In terms of your guidance of positive operating leverage if the ten-year does stay between 1.75% to 2% range and the Fed doesn’t move can you continue to chop away at the efficiency ratio I think on a core basis I calculated 66.8% this quarter.
Erika I think that if rates were to stay where they’re at and that the Fed does not raise rates this year obviously we’ve got to manage through that possibility and as David said earlier we’re focused on remaining very disciplined and very keenly focused on opportunities to continue to rationalize our expenses across the company.
We’ll have to continue to do that and we think we’ve proven that if you look backwards in terms of how we’ve managed expenses.
Moving forward obviously in this rate environment it means that we’ve really got to raise the bar if you will on that activity and I think you should continue to see us look at ways to rationalize expenses across the franchise as we had mentioned we had announced the closure and consolidation of 50 offices I think since - if you look back over the past few years we’ve reduced our physical footprints some 20% as well as attacked expenses across the franchise and across channels.
David anything to add? I think we have to continue to look at our total business in terms of expense management under any scenario any rate environment.
We do believe that there is a tendency to have short term rates go up towards the back end of the year still we believe that's what the Fed wants to do.
We have to be prepared in case that's not the case and so we’re committed to seeking positive operating leverage in any scenario.
It gets harder if rates stay lower.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Wonder if you can give us a little more color on the 2015 margin outlook.
Is that expectation for 10 to 12 basis points of compression is that incremental off of the fourth quarter margin number? In other words from this fourth quarter till the fourth quarter of 2015 or is that full year 2015 margin on an average basis versus the full year 2014 margin? That’s really leveraging John of the fourth quarter where we are right now and that would be - the impact of that really would be felt later in the year versus the earlier in the year.
Again to the extent that that’s a sustainable 1.75% to 2% throughout 2015.
And you just alluded to what my follow was going to be on the margin so therefore if that's the case the Fed does nothing next quarter you’ve got a flattish margin however from the second third and fourth quarter for 2015 you expect 10 to 12 bps of compression during that period so what is implying that drop-off? Because that does imply pretty good down tick from here.
Well I think we’d continue to see the negative impacts of lower rates on reinvestment yields in particular where we’re having to put to work $300 million $400 million of cash every month.
And you continue to see the rollover effect of lower rates in the loan book as well.
So we think that if you look at where we think the Fed's going to be towards the middle of the year we think you’ll start seeing some pressure to increase short term rates and so we haven’t abandoned that what we wanted to try to do is put some sensitivities and some extent that that does not happen.
And at the – ten-year [Inaudible] rates also stay lower.
So we’re not saying that’s what will happen or that we expect that to happen we were just trying to give you a little bit sensitivity of possibly what could happen.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Good morning.
David just to follow up on the expense side understanding the clear focus on operating leverage.
Last year you were able to also help us understand the directional dollars on the expense side - and you did a really good job of getting it down two and change percent.
So with all these pushes and pulls and wanting to leave the door open on investments so can you help us frame an understanding of where you think expense dollars can go given that premise of uncertainty on the revenue side? We think Ken we’ve made investments in a number of areas this year because we believe growing revenue is important for our franchise we’ve hired people to do that.
We’ve hired some late in the year that will have full run rate going forward.
We have the negative impact of tension that will hit us for 2015 that’s about $25 million in total for the year.
So call it $6 million per quarter.
So with that and the investments we’ve made - we’re talking about expense management and revenue together in terms of positive operating leverage versus a commitment on just expense levels because we’ve needed to make these investments to grow revenue.
We think they’ll pay off and so I guess the best I can do to describe where you want to go is that positive operating leverage is something that we should be able to achieve in 2015.
Okay got it.
And then on the C side just coming back to - also expecting growth there I am assuming that’s off of your adjusted 17.84 base.
But what I wanted to dig down into is that I am assuming that's inclusive of the $3.5 million of that lingering deposit advance run off.
And then also can you just remind us is it also inclusive of the expected overdraft charge changes as well? It does include both of those.
And then my last one just on that last point is any update or changes with regards to the numbers you’ve tried to put around your – that potential delta on deposit - on overdrafts? Thanks.
No.
We're doing some pilots right now on that posting order and nothing's come to our attention that calls us to want to change that guidance we gave you 10 to 15 per quarter when implemented.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi one clarification question just on NIM outlook I just want to make sure - in your second bullet point where you say if the ten year yield were 1.75% to 2% that would drive 10 to 12 basis points of NIM pressure throughout 2015.
Does that scenario also include your base case scenario for the front end moving up in the middle of the year? We have incorporated - we have our base case in terms of the front end moving up and what we’re trying to say is that we have - this risk would be on top of what we already project for that so you could take our base case and then take 10 to 12 basis points on top of that.
But that really is - the 10 to 12 - we think we’ll have relatively stable margin like I said in the first quarter even in low persistent rate environment.
The impact starts - it could be felt later in the year.
Really in the third and fourth quarter it’s more pervasive.
Right so then if there’s no rate hike at the front end of the curve does that - how does that impact your outlook would that be incremental negative or not material? It would be but that impact would be felt later in the year as well.
We didn’t really have a full effect until the end of the year anyway.
Got it.
Okay and then just on the branch consolidation the 50 branches in 2015 could you give us some color as to have extensive the review was of the branch network and is this a beginning of consolidation or does this get you largely through what you intend to do on the network? Thus we've been -- we've been very disciplined about doing an annual review of our multi-channel delivery system branches being part of that.
When we look at investments that we're making in branches our ATMs mobile homeland contact center we look at across the channels we may convert irrational decision on what we're investing in there.
If you look at what we've done on physical branch presence as I mentioned over the past five seven years we've probably consolidated over 20% of our franchise.
From a branch account standpoint we're around 1 666 offices today.
We continue -- we will continue to look at that on an annual basis.
It's an ongoing process for us.
It's not a one-time and done but it's rather part of how we think about our customer deliver points and so you should anticipate we will continue to do this each and every year.
All right.
And the cost of closing the branches is in line with what you've done previously.
I am just wondering if… Yes we've got pretty good experience based on this and not only from a estimating the cost -- the cost reductions that come out of those branches but just as importantly is retention of customer relationships as we close with branches and so we think we -- from an modeling standpoint we think we've got pretty good model and we understand how to execute on branch consolidations and closures.
Okay.
And then I guess just a last follow-up here is on the online product that you indicated in the prepared remarks that in the other consumer category should expect to accelerate in part from the online lending focus.
Could you give us some color on what you mean by that what you're investing in and how any pilots are going? The conclusion -- we continue to look at both online and mobile both of those channels have very strong growth rates year-over-year and most of those most of that activity as you are well aware is around fairly routine bank transactions balance inquiry funds transfer bill payment.
But all the things we've discovered through some of the product innovation we've had over the two last two or three years is that the desire for customers to also have the ability to borrow money online and also borrow money at point of sale and so we are introducing a number of new online capabilities as well as some partnership capabilities we have on a sale.
That's an activity that we'll be making announcements on as the year progresses and it's just a way to extend our brand further into market places that we are as dominant today.
Okay.
Thanks for the color there.
Your next question comes from Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities.
Good morning Bill.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I had a question on asset quality remained strong but I am trying to get a sense for how we should think about the trajectory of your net charge-off rate.
It looks like it troughed at 35 basis points in the second quarter and it's been rising three to four basis points since per quarter.
And I guess as we look ahead should we continue to expect that kind of similar level of quarterly increase over the next few quarters as credit normalizes? I guess at what point does it level out assuming credit conditions remain favorable? Any color around that would be helpful.
One of the things we're going to leave in our prepared comments is when you get this down to this level of charge-offs in particular you can see volatility in any given quarter.
We're trying to leave you with you the conclusion that in particular if you look at criticizing Class 5 loans that's one of the earliest indicators of where your credit quality is going.
That would imply that over time we see the charge-off rate continuing to come down.
Where it settles out we'll have to see but we don't believe that the level it's at now is fixed.
We believe that does come down.
Assuming that condition economic conditions continue to perform where they are now.
So you have to make your own assessment as to where that might -- that terminal value would be but it should -- it should be lower than what it is over time.
Okay.
I think -- separate question on auto can you talk about the nature of your relationship with your dealer partners in the indirect auto lending side of your business and address specifically how dealer participation works.
In particular I wondering how much freedom your dealer partners have to charge auto loan customers rates that are above and beyond the rate at which you're willing to underwrite a loan? So we have almost 1 700 dealers today.
We have -- I didn't see the -- to work with large dealer groups where understanding the dynamics and the changes that are going on in the industry are in terms of pricing and trying to be fair to customers and transparent to customers.
We like virtually everybody in the industry do give opportunities for dealers to mark-up the rate.
Today it's up to 200 basis points.
We know that that's being evaluated by regulatory supervisors in the industry and we're going to stay connected to what that looks like.
We think there is a chance the whole industry might move in a given direction but we think we're spot on with what others are doing in the industry.
But Bill we have a -- we have very rigorous monitoring program of our dealerships and to monitor their activities and to make sure that we're confident in their capabilities for underwriting and pricing.
We also have a single price grid franchise-wide and are very very disciplined about maintaining that pricing grid in exactly where our approval rates are if what FICO scores they were delivering on a monthly basis.
Now we continue to tighten up the rigor around our credit practices in that segment making improvements literally on a continuous basis.
Okay.
Can you say finally on that point whether any of the changes to the practices that you've made have been prompted by your discussions with regulators or have kind of regulators been more kind of on a fact finding -- fact gathering kind of mode and haven’t necessarily been asking for any changes to be made just that… Bill really only I can say is we continue to have very detailed and productive conversations with our regulatory supervisors.
We have decisions where changes where we believe they're necessary in order for the business to perform better and it's a longstanding relationship and so we feel we'll account for where we're at today.
As David said earlier there are tremendous debates in the industry about how these products are delivered.
As those rules changes occur we will adjust to that.
Understood.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning John.
Hi.
Good morning.
On expenses David any ballpark numbers for what kind of savings you could get from the new branch rationalizations that you took the charge for this quarter and next quarter? Well I'll tell you that generally speaking when we take charges we like to target the payback period to be somewhere in the three to five year range.
This is on the lower end of that and we continue to evaluate our whole footprint and to the extent that we can consolidate -- every time we consolidate braches we lose revenue.
The idea though is to be able to adjust expenses -- run rate expenses faster than the revenue that we're losing.
And so as we look at these last 50 we're closer to that three-year payback range and as Grayson mentioned earlier we will continue to evaluate all of our branches and rationalize those and make investments in others.
Okay.
And just take you to that item on the operating leverage goal for positive operating leverage I assume that's on an adjusted basis year-over-year that you should infer wouldn't include like the legal charge this quarter? That's correct.
Okay.
And is there any efficiency goal aside to that just to issue? We've talked about our efficiency ratio over long term to be in that 55% to 59% range.
We need a rate increase for that to happen.
While we wait believe we can drift down into the lower 60s of efficiency ratio.
2015 we're targeting to be better than we are in 2014 and all that's on an adjusted basis.
Okay.
And then just for a follow-up on a payout how you're thinking about what's the right kind of payout ratio for regions? You've got a lot of capital.
Given how much this year's buyback was backend loaded on a quarterly basis you're now actually returning on a high percentage of your earnings this quarter and hopefully next.
I guess just kind of as you went through CCAR how did you approach thinking about where the payout ratio should go broadly over the next year or two? Yes so as a result of us being in the middle of a regulatory submission we need to be careful exactly with what we're saying although the answer and sometime in March we will let you know.
But the way we thought about capital was first off we wanted to get our dividend closer to where peers and market expectations were.
We clearly wanted to use our capital to grow our business.
Organically we think that's important.
When you look at our capital ratios that we have we have more common equity Tier 1 than most of our peers and we believe we needed to be a little more forward leaning in terms of putting that capital to work.
So you should expect that ratio to be higher.
We don't necessarily target a total payout ratio per se.
We look at optimizing excuse me optimizing our capital stack in terms of what's in the capital stack and the sheer dollar amount to become as efficient as we can be and we realize we had more capital our Tier 1 common or common equity Tier 1 on Basel III in most.
That's why we think we can do the things we need to do to get the dividend up to get the investments made to grow our business and serve our customers and return appropriate amount to our shareholders and that's what we did.
And I guess one of the concerns some shareholders have is that you're aligned to a bank acquisition that's dilutive and you don't have a currency to your stock right now in terms of a multiple to do a bank deal.
And I guess could you just give us your thoughts about being disciplined on that in terms of using capital given where you trade today and your appetite to do a bank deal or opposed to doing some kind of cash deal to increase your fee income and how you're thinking along those lines? So you pointed out rightly.
We also look at our currency.
We think strategically about acquisitions but I think you bring up a great point in terms of where we are from a currency standpoint.
We do have a capital that we can put to work in terms of the organic growth and returns to shareholders and use that excess capital on appropriate acquisition whether it be a bank or non-bank where you're using cash as a currency versus your stock.
And so that's a little more available to us today given our capital position but we're well aware of expectations on dilution and being able to payback that dilution in a reasonable period of time and we're not in the mode of doing an acquisition just to do an acquisition.
We will be very thoughtful and we need to get our currency up and we will do that by executing our business plan and executing our strategy first and foremost and there will be plenty of time for acquisitions after we get that dealt with.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
On the $10 million of increased expenses that you said really it's I guess for outside consultants and I guess it's really -- it's some of the regulations for Dodd-Frank CCAR what not.
Is that a one-time charge or should we model that going forward into the models? Are you speaking of the $10 million for the branch consolidations or… Maybe I am misreading but I thought there was a $10 million of increased consultants.
Its $5 million Paul.
If you look at outside services it went up about $5 million.
I am sorry.
That was related to third party consultants and our capital planning process and certain risk management initiatives.
Those are areas reasonably we point that out those are areas where -- that we have a chance to cut those back and become more efficient on but that is unrelated to the branch $10 million charge that we took.
Okay.
So that's an area that you think you can get down over time but we should be modeling that in for the short term? Well we think we can get that down and third parties are one of the easiest -- third party expenditures are one of the easier ones to deal with because you don't have to sign a contract.
So we should -- we expect and you should expect over time that we work on third party cost and get those down to -- at level that is appropriate for our institution.
And then you might not have these numbers.
You don't -- you usually can have somebody give me a call back but what exactly -- I couldn’t really calculate what is your capitalized cost of servicing because you did take it right down to the MSR but what did you take it down to on a capitalized cost of servicing number? I don't have that.
We'll get -- Paul we'll get that -- get back… If you can give me a call back that would be great.
Hey guys thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim.
Good morning Eric.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up on a couple of topics that have been addressed but as I think about everything that you've said about your net interest margin and assuming that the forward curve is still correct in terms of implied midyear hike and given your fairly robust loan growth guidance how should I think about sort of the geography of net interest income dollars over the next few quarters here? Well Eric to the extent that we can give a rising rate what we will say is that we can have modest improvement to our overall net interest income and resulting NIM if that occurs.
We do believe we will have an increase in the shorter rates.
We don't believe it will start through mid year.
So we expect that to be an opportunities for us in terms of revenue growth if the loan growth will pan out like we've talked about and if the rate environment works like we've talked about we think that's an area where we can grow revenue.
We've had a pretty resilient margin relative to our peers and so we're looking forward to that.
We will try and give you the -- if that doesn’t happen here is what the risk is relative to that expectation and that's what the 10 to 12 basis point is all about.
All right and in that scenario does your loan growth result in flat net interest income dollars or is there some downward risk in the lack of -- in the 175 to 200 basis point tenure scenario? Well if you're adding interest earning assets we should be able to grow with that incrementally our NII.
The issue is that at what margin will that ultimately result in.
So you could have a growing NII and a decline in the resulting margin that's been at where you put assets on the books.
Got it.
And just to follow-up on asset quality for a moment how should we think about your reserve adequacy at this stage given that the reserve releases have moved not necessarily entirely with the direction of net charge-offs on a sort of quarter-over-quarter basis.
Yes so the question is really where we think overall allowance levels would trend? We have a pretty sophisticated allowance methodology.
We're getting the question where do you think that will ultimately be? As charge-offs continue to come down as criticized and classified levels come down as non-performers come down then you have a tendency to expect and lower allowance to loan ratio.
I can't tell you where that terminal value is.
I think what's going on the books today is some of the most pristine incredibly we've had in a long time and I think that each quarter as charge-offs come down we do believe we have some leverage in our allowance which helps us keep the provision down lower for a longer period of time but at some point that runs out and you have to start providing for whatever your charge-offs are.
So the question that was asked earlier in terms of where that charge-off maybe is something we needed to look at and think through but the allowance is going to be what it's going to be and I think there is an ability for that to come down to some degree.
But Eric when you look at the net charge-offs you just have to keep reminding yourself there is some residual effect of credits that we've had on our books for a long time that are getting resolved.
In addition the granularity of our loan portfolio does require some level of volatility from quarter to quarter on charge-offs but when you look at the charge-off in relationship to the provision the provision really is driving our allowance as a reflection of the overall quality of the portfolio.
And as you see from the numbers the overall quality of our loan portfolio continues to improve.
We've got modest loan growth build in through our projections but a lot of where that provision and resulting allowance winds us trending in large parts tend to pin down loan growth and in what segments that loan growth occurs.
Great and then just last one for me your go-forward tax rate what you're expecting there? If you right-size for the impact of the legal and regulatory charge you saw us in that roughly 29% range and you would expect that fairly similar to 2015.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Matt.
Hi guys.
Just a follow-up on the energy theme I guess first in terms of your exposure that you laid out on Page 12 which is very helpful how do you think about how long oil prices need to stay where they are before we see some cracks just kind of generally speaking in your portfolio? Matt let me if you would we've prepared that in the appendix to give you a little more data analytically on sort of our exposure in the -- I've got John Turner in the room with me today who manages our energy segment.
So John if you would speak to this for a second.
Happy to in terms of how long the prices can stay down I would say if you look at the material we've provided the majority of our exposure is centered either in our exploration production or our oil field services portfolios and if we have a concentration in oil field services that's in marine transportation companies that are serving the deep water we think that those companies are operating in an environment that has a much longer to play out.
Our portfolio is comprised of relatively small number of companies that are located in Louisiana and Texas.
They're led by seasoned management teams have really good liquidity both in the form of cash and credit available to them.
They've operated through volatile cycles before.
Have good access to capital and so we feel good about our portfolio.
We've got a seasoned team of bankers and risk managers.
In terms of how long the price can stay down I don't think we have a sophisticated approach to data to know how long that is because we don't know where the price will end up.
A lot of it has to do with where the price ultimately bottoms out and then the length of time that it will stay there but based upon again good liquidity good experience amongst our management teams access to different forms of capital and just the credit profile and small number of customers that we have we say we feel pretty good about our exposure today.
Okay.
That's helpful and then just on the flip side as I think about your consumer from a geographic point of view you operate in some lower income areas and I would think some of those customers are going to benefit much more from lower gas prices potentially lower home energy cost.
So just talk about some of the dynamics on the consumer side both in terms of maybe some relief on the credit and whether there might be some boost on the lending and spending volumes as well.
Yes I think it's a little early to call but clearly the reduction in price of a gallon of gasoline at the pump has had a material impact on disposable income of a number of our customers and we do operate a number of -- in a number of markets that that will really play to as an advantage.
We continue to see from a consumer lending standpoint consumer's credit metrics continue to improve and we would anticipate that if oil prices and conversely prices at pump stayed as low for an extended period of time it will see a strengthening not only in the credit the credit of those consumers but also the spending behaviors of those consumers.
And we -- you see a number of different scenarios about a penny drop at the pump and how many dollars that actually puts back into the consumer's pocket and those numbers are just startling in size but I would say that you it's early to see the results of that but clearly it's occurring and clearly we will see strengthening.
I would say that in the fourth quarter we did see really strong results in the activity of both debit and credit card transactions both in a number of transactions and in the dollar value of those transactions.
And as you saw a modest increase in outstanding balances in the credit card portfolio.
So maybe those are early signs but I do think it's still all early for us to decide what the marked improvement will be.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Good morning Marty.
Hey thanks for taking the questions.
One is to ask you David a little bit about the prepayment speeds if you had any impact in the security yields this quarter may be from the premium bonds being written down a little bit more? And then also you did have a big impact on the write down in the mortgage servicing rights.
Does that encompass a big pick up in prepayments already? So just wanted to see the two impacts in those areas of prepayment speed.
Yes I think Marty I think there is really unrelated at this point.
We did see a very small amount of pick up in pre amortization.
It was about $2 million impact to this negatively in the quarter.
So I think our total premium amortization was $42 million up from $40 million in the quarter before.
Mortgage was just a little different.
Obviously we had a lot of volatility in rates and we obviously have hedges on the hedge as much as the change in fair value as we can.
We're a little less effective in those hedges and that was part of the decline in the MSR and then total mortgage we had just lower deliveries into the secondary market that we believe real more of a timing issue for us.
So we think those were a little more anomalies that occurred in the fourth quarter than we should hopefully see going forward? And would it be fair to reflect that if you look at the amortization it didn't really accelerate any other future prepayments it may happen yet if you look at the bag on the servicing rights maybe you have accelerated some of the impact there? Yes I think so and also we need to look at what's happening right now with rates -- mortgage rates continuing to come down.
We could see -- we could see an opportunity for refinance activity helping our mortgage business but also that negatively impacts us on the mortgage services rights.
So we have a little bit of a built in economic hedge to some degree there.
We need to still see how that plays out over the course of the year.
And just lastly when you talked about the modest rise in interest rate holding margins flat to pushing it up you would still expect if you had a short term rise in interest rates does that eventually kind of pull through positively on your net interest margin.
So I just want to make sure of when a structural change that was somewhat pulling that benefit down a little bit.
No we continue to be asset sensitive along the curve and short-term rates medium term long-term all those benefit us.
I think our last disclosure on F100 was about $160 million $170 million which is almost split a third a third a third in that scenario.
So we benefit from that increase at any level.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning Matt.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Just a couple of very quick follow-ups it sounds from your answers to Matt's -- Matt O'Connor's prior questions that you have not really incorporated much in the way of increased provisions against the oil exposure that you have or the energy exposure you have in the fourth quarter provision.
Is that a reasonable assumption? When you look at our fourth quarter provision we're not saying any adverse impacts yet in that part of the portfolio that would be included in the quantitative part of our allowance methodologies.
In the qualitative part obviously any market uncertainties in oil and gas being one of those is included in that quantitative analysis and there would be some consideration given to the fact that oil prices have dropped but an explicit special reserve we did not do that.
We let our methodologies process the way they are built to be modeled and we believe we have taken the right stance on that.
And just following up on that exposure have you said publicly what the losses have been back in other periods of declining oil prices or perhaps what the non-performing asset levels rose to just to get a sense of sort of what the potential risk might be? We have not but Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer will have this.
Now I'll ask Barb to make a few comments.
We can't go back and actually reproduce those numbers at this point in time but again going from experience those numbers were very small.
Again being very active in that space as we mentioned we've been doing this for 40 years and so we have run through some ups and downs and know it has not impacted our books significantly.
Okay.
And then just finally David a question on cards you sound quite optimistic about your ability to continue to drive card acceptance and card usage from your customers and the branches did I get the sense from your comments that you're thinking about potentially broadening the offering of those cards outside the branches and possibly outside your footprint? Our focus really has been our customer base.
If you -- and the reason for that is our penetration on our customer base has been right at 16%.
We expect that to be in the lower 20s intact and so that's really where our focus has been.
We have from a strategy standpoint thought about expanding outside of our customer base and we think right now spending the time to again serve our existing customers is probably the best route to go at this time but it is on the drawing board for us.
Well we think that's progress.
We've looked at different strategies but again cross-selling our current customer base continues to be our number one priority and we've got better at executing on that strategy.
We've had -- our results continue to build momentum.
We've got more active cards more card transaction and had more success in penetrating our book and in the past and so we're encouraged by our early results and that remains our strategy.
Makes sense.
Thank you for the color.
Your next question comes from Chris Mutascio of KBW.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
David just a quick question your positive operating leverage commentary clearly implies pretax pre-provisioning earnings growth in '15 over '14.
But I guess can you achieve pretax earnings growth if in indeed the provision expense inevitably reflects off the low level in fourth quarter? Well our goal is to constantly grow our earnings for our pretax and after tax basis.
So we're working hard to grow all areas revenue control our expense base and we think net net we can do that from an operating leverage standpoint but we haven’t given explicit guidance as to what that pretax move will be.
As we go through the year we will give you a little more clarity on that but we're going to stick to positive operating leverage right now is the guidance.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up on the positive operating leverage guidance that includes the branch closing cost in both fourth quarter of '14 and the potential for another $15 million first quarter '15? Is that correct? It includes the benefit of having that out in the expense run rate but the actual charge the $10 million and the $15 million are adjusted out.
Okay.
So it does not include those.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Vivek Januja of JPMorgan.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Couple of them.
Oil and Gas.
Can you just talk about your originations during the course of 2014 and also how much do you have in commitments over and above 3.35 or 3.35 billion of academics? The answer to your first or second question is commitments.
We currently have 6.9 billion in commitments to the sector and 3.4 billion outstanding which represents about 4.4% of the portfolio.
Further originations we grew both around $200 million year-over-year.
It was fairly diverse group of originations both in the E&amp;P sector and in auto services driven through the cross both states in terms of geography and through our Regions Business Capital Group which has strong relationships with private equity sponsors in that space and have pretty good year in originations as well.
So would you say then - chunk of the growth came from the private equity related loans? I don't have the mix exactly.
So we’ll say that those relationships were certainly important to some of the growth that we generated through our Regions Business Capital Group.
Okay thanks.
And one more question qualitative reserves you mentioned earlier what is the amount of - what percentage of your loans are - what percentage we had loan last reserves qualitative reserves? We have not disclosed that.
But is that something that's changed in the fourth quarter? Did it go up down flat any context around that? Relatively stable.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Good afternoon.
Just two quick ones from me.
What is the reserve on the loan book - on the energy book today and maybe what was it if you know going back to 2009 when we had a similar decline in oil prices? And then just secondarily what's the expected impact in dollars if you have it around the seasonal FICO costs that you expect in the first quarter? Thanks.
This is Barb Godin.
If we look at the energy book we don't have it specifically that way.
We do have - we look at very detail and acquire particularly if it’s a non performing loans for good specific reserve.
Other than that we look at it improved loans so we don't have competitive status but we can is we feel very comfortable with what our book looks like again remembering that we do a few things.
We do sensitivity analysis on that book.
We have a price deck.
We do that pretty well in the quarterly basis but the price deck we press it down and then we pick an additional haircut on that.
We also do reserve calculations with those 65% advanced rate on our reserved calculations.
And last but not least we also have hedging on that book.
So all in we feel pretty good about that book but again getting back to your comments both specific reserves or reserving we don’t have them so we can provide you.
Michael I'll take the second question.
So if you look at prior year it should be relatively consistent for file the taxes and 401-K match and those kinds of things that happened in the first quarter.
They are almost up around $12 million and then remember that our pension cost increased about $6 million for quarter that you'll that’s new.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one more back to the energy book.
What percentage of your book is hedged through 2015 and through 2016 if you have that? Thanks.
About 41% through 2015 and an additional 17% I think through 2016.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
I apologize if you’ve addressed this question I need to jump off.
If you look at your total energy portfolio what percentage of that would be designated as leverage loans? We currently have seven leverage loans in our energy portfolio.
Five of those are managed through our Regions business capital group and so it would be a modest percentage of our total exposure.
Okay.
And is there any talk I haven't heard this but has there been any talk amongst the OCC or the regulators to do for the industry and not just for you folks of course targeted energy credit exams this year.
We haven't heard of any that -- I would believe that they probably would just given the where things are in the energy sector we would not be surprised.
The other comment I would also make on the leverage loans we just ask that question is recognizing that definition of leverage within the overall space and how we define leverage is different.
So typically as you know leverage is defined as non-investment grade and again that is -- that's what banks our side do as we land in the non-investment grade space.
And then finally and again I apologize if you've addressed this as you of course is very very strong.
Do you guys get a sense that there will be at some point in the future where the regulators will allow you to reduce that to a more manageable level so that your return on equity can obviously go higher? Yes Gerard this is David.
There hasn’t been any explicit guidance coming from regulatory supervisors on that.
I think it's incumbent upon us to ensure we have an appropriate amount of capital for the risk in our business.
We clearly think we do.
We think we have capital that can be more effectively deployed and I weren’t on the call we talked about easing that capital really for first off getting our dividend up to kind of our more consistent with expectations.
Using that capital to grow organically using excess capital to the extent that there was an acquisition to pay cash for whether it be a bank non-bank and they are returning in appropriate amount of capital to our shareholders.
We think we have the kind of capital position and we think we have a really good understanding of the risk attended to our company and therefore we think over time you will see those drift down.
Where the terminal amount is is everybody's guess.
And so I think we need not get ahead of ourselves on that but I do think capital levels do rationalize over time.
The amount of time -- when that is is anybody's guess.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
And one follow-up to your comments David on acquisitions not to say that you're looking at anything right now but some of the bigger banks have commented that the BSA/AML internal reporting has been a obstacle to getting deals announced.
How do you guys feel about your BSA/AML condition in terms of your systems? Obviously M&amp;T is still struggling to close its deal that was announced over two years ago because of BSA/AML issues.
Can you give us some color on where you guys think you stand in that arena? Well I think ensuring that you have all of your key processes in order to participate in acquisitions is important.
BSA/AML has been imported to our country for a long time.
It will continue to get the time and attention and it's incumbent upon us to have all the controls in place.
We invest an awful lot of time and attention in ensuring that and we feel like we have a very robust program relative to BSA/AML and -- but that mean we can't stop here.
We have to continue to invest and continue to be diligent in terms of those processes but we think we have a solid program today.
Again thank you.
You bet.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's conference.
I'll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Hall for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate everyone's participation today and thank you for your questions and we'll stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
I would like to remind everyone that all participant phone lines have been placed on listen-only.
At the end of the call there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call today.
Our presenters include Grayson Hall our Chief Executive Officer; and David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of our management team are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our call -- earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the Appendix section of the presentation.
Grayson? Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We're pleased you could join us as we review our first quarter results.
First quarter results reflect a solid start to 2015 as we reported our earnings of $218 million or $0.16 per diluted share which included $0.02 per share of significant items that negatively impacted EPS.
These results illustrate that we are successfully executing our strategic priorities which include diversifying revenue generating positive operating leverage and effectively deploying capital.
As notably we achieved these results even with severe weather conditions in our markets during the first quarter.
During the quarter we grew loans and deposits we grew checking accounts in all of our markets we generated positive operating leverage while prudently managing expenses and receiving no objection to our CCAR submission.
Our loan growth in the first quarter was 1% with most loan categories experiencing growth.
Deposit growth exceeded our expectations this quarter with balance still growing 3% from the end of last year.
As continued evidence of our Regions360 approach to relationship banking we grew checking accounts in all of our market and accordingly also increased our number of households.
Total revenue remained relatively steady from the fourth quarter despite seasonal declines in both net interest income and non-interest income.
However our efforts around diversifying our revenue streams helped to offset these declines.
Wealth Management delivered strong results growing revenue 8% and increasing assets under administration by 5%.
While all segments within Wealth Management grew revenue insurance was particularly noteworthy as revenue increased 13% linked quarter.
Going forward along the organic growth we will continue to target lift-out and acquisition opportunities in the support of business.
This will also allow us to round down our product offerings and geographic coverage and will drive incremental revenue growth.
Adjusted expenses declined 2% from the fourth quarter as many of our expense categories declined.
We continue to prudently manage expenses while focusing on expenses we can control while appropriately investing for future growth.
Total expense during the first quarter was impacted by few planned actions where we incur additional charges but our future run rate should benefit.
Let me spend a few moments and provide you with an update on energy lending portfolio.
We continue to use our corporate governance process to monitor oil price declines for direct and indirect impact to our overall loan portfolio.
While we have seen some downward risk breeding migration in our oil field services portfolio we are not seeing widespread financial stress within our customers in the portfolio.
Obviously if oil prices remained at low levels for the extended period of time additional migration is likely.
However we are staying engaged with our customers and we will take necessary actions as we deem appropriate.
Conversely we believe consumers are beginning to experience benefits from lower oil prices with consumer loan categories net charge-offs delinquencies and non-performing loans all declined during the quarter.
In fact total net charge-offs to average loans is 28 basis points in the quarter our lowest level in over seven years.
Also during the first quarter we received no objections to our planned capital action from the Federal Reserve related to our CCAR submission.
We believe our plan reaffirms our commitment to effectively managing our capital is for long-term growth objectives while also increasing returns to shareholders.
It also highlights our continued long-term approach to capital allocation and distribution.
As returning excess capital to shareholders remains a priority.
Our capital plan included increase in the quarterly $0.01 per share to $0.06.
Additionally we plan to repurchase $875 million of outstanding shares over the next five quarters subject to Board approval.
From an economic perspective we anticipate a growth should pick up over the remainder of the year and we expect continued improvement in housing prices across our markets.
However we do not expect an increase in short-term rates until the later part of 2015.
We will continue to leverage our Regions360 approach to relationship banking to grow and expand our customer base.
In fact during the first quarter Regions was again recognized by leading customer experience research firms the Temkin Group and Greenwich Associates for providing industry-leading service to both consumers and businesses in 2014.
We are pleased to once again be recognized for providing an exceptional customer experience.
With that I will turn it over to David.
He will cover details for the first quarter.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
I'll take you through the first quarter details and then wrap up with our expectations for the remainder of 2015.
Loan balances totaled $78 billion at the end of the first quarter up $936 million or 1%.
Business lending achieved solid growth that was balanced across industry segments and geographic locations.
Balances in this portfolio totaled $49 billion at the end of the quarter an increase of $867 million or 2%.
Investor real estate lending balances totaled $7 billion an increase of $108 million or 2%.
And commercial and industrial loans grew $949 million or 3% and this growth was driven by our market-based corporate and commercial bankers serving small corporate and middle market clients.
In addition Regions’ business capital our asset-based lending group and corporate real estate exhibited growth during the quarter.
Line utilization increased 10 basis points commitments for new loans increased 4% and our pipelines remained strong.
Moving to consumer lending loans in this portfolio totaled $29 billion as production increased 9% linked quarter.
Mortgage loan balances increased $103 million and production increased 9% linked quarter.
In addition indirect auto lending balances increased $59 million or 2% as this portfolio continues to expand.
New and enhanced consumer lending product offerings led the growth in our other consumer loan category loan balances increased $28 million and the portfolio totaled $1.2 billion at the end of the quarter while production also increased 58%.
As expected credit card balance declined following a seasonally high fourth quarter balances declined $43 million or 4% from the previous quarter.
However production increased 20%.
And finally total home equity balances declined $78 million or 1% while production also decreased 1%.
Let’s take a look at deposit.
Supported by our multichannel platform total deposits growth was strong increasing $3 billion during the first quarter.
Two-thirds of this growth was driven by consumer deposits which were broad base across the majority of our markets.
Deposits costs remained near historically low levels and totaled 12 basis points while total funding costs were 29 basis points in the quarter.
Let's look how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable basis was $832 million a decline of $5 million or 1% from the previous quarter.
The low rate environment and fewer days in the quarter were the principal drivers of the decrease but were partially offset by increases in average loans and reductions of higher costs borrowings.
Net interest margin increased slightly from the previous quarter to 3.18% reflecting the benefits of reduced borrowing costs offset by higher levels of cash due to deposit growth.
Total non-interest income declined $4 million or 1% in the first quarter.
Mortgage income increased $13 million or 48% as loan production increased along with improvement in the market valuation of mortgage servicing rights.
As Grayson noted our Wealth Management Group delivered strong results for the quarter revenue increased 8% led by higher insurance commissions higher investment services fees and increases in investment management and trust income.
Service charges declined $6 million from the previous quarter which was due to a $3 million decline in fees resulting from a product discontinuation in the fourth quarter and seasonally lower non-sufficient fund fees.
Card and ATM fees decreased slightly as a result of lower spending and transaction volumes that are typically experienced in the first quarter.
However the number of active accounts continued to increase.
Let's move on to expenses.
Total reported expenses in the first quarter were $905 million a decline of 7% while adjusted expenses declined 2%.
During the first quarter we redeemed $250 million of higher cost debt incurring $43 million extinguishment charges but earnings will benefit from a lower run rate going forward.
As previously noted in the fourth quarter 2014 we announced plans to consolidate 50 branches throughout 2015 as part of an ongoing evaluation of the branch network.
We recorded $13 million of expense related to the consolidation in the first quarter of 2015.
In addition we have a space planning initiative underway which will reduce occupancy expense going forward.
This initiative results in an incremental charge of $9 million.
Salaries and benefits remained relatively flat from the previous quarter despite a seasonal increase in payroll taxes of $11 million which was offset by decline of $15 million in incentives that is not expected to repeat next quarter.
Pension expenses increased $2 billion lower than our original estimate for the quarter and should remain at this level for the remainder of 2015.
In the second quarter we expect an increase of salaries and benefits commensurate with annual merit increases.
Occupancy and furniture fixtures declined a total of $5 million and outside services declined $6 million.
Professional legal and regulatory expenses excluding the previous quarters of $100 million legal and regulatory accrual declined $15 million to $19 million for the quarter.
Although there are opportunities for expense reductions we expect expenses in this category to increase somewhat and some amount of volatility should be expected.
Our adjusted efficiency ratio was 64.9% in the quarter an improvement of 120 basis points from the prior period.
Prudent expense management remains a top priority as we remain committed for generating positive operating leverage over time.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter was 28.7%.
This rate reflects the impact of the adoption of new guidance related to the accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects which increased income tax expense and non-interest income.
All prior periods have been restated to conform in this new presentation.
In addition the first quarter’s tax expense includes a one-time benefit related to an improved methodology to determine state deferred taxes of approximately $10 million which reduced our effective tax rate by approximately 300 basis points.
Moving to asset quality total commercial and investor real estate criticized and classified loans increased $125 million or 5% from the prior quarter as the company experienced some weakening in large dollar commercial and industrial loans within the energy healthcare and other portfolios.
However we do not believe this weakening is systemic in nature.
As Grayson noted we are closely monitoring the energy portfolio and have experienced some risk-rating downgrades this quarter.
However because the number of our energy clients are limited we are in a position to maintain frequent contact and will continue to be diligent through our normal processes of credit servicing these loans.
Compared to the prior quarter total delinquencies declined 12% and troubled debt restructurings or TDRs declined 5%.
Our non-performing loans excluding loans held for sale decreased 3% linked quarter and at quarter end our loan loss allowance to non-performing loans or coverage ratio was 137%.
Again as Grayson mentioned total net charge-offs declined $29 million and represented 28 basis points of average loans.
The provision for loan losses was $49 million or $5 million less than net charge-offs.
Given where we are in the credit cycle in the large dollar commercial credits in our portfolio along with fluctuating oil prices volatility in certain credit metrics can be expected.
Let’s talk about capital and liquidity.
During the quarter we repurchased $102 million of shares of common stock which completes the $350 million program that was part of our 2014 CCAR submission.
Additionally during the first quarter we began the transition period for the Basel III capital rules.
As such we will report Basel III capital ratios under the phase-in provisions for regulatory reporting purposes.
But we will also continue to report ratios as if fully implemented.
Under these new provisions we maintained industry-leading capital levels as a tier 1 ratio was estimated at 12% and the common equity tier 1 was estimated at 11.2%.
In addition the common equity tier 1 was estimated at 10.9% on a fully phase-in basis.
Liquidity at both the bank and holding company remains solid with a loan-to-deposit ratio of 80%.
And regarding the liquidity coverage ratio rule Regions remains well positioned to be fully compliant with the January 2016 implementation deadline.
Throughout 2015 we will update customer agreements to include LCR friendly language.
We will modify our existing deposit products and we also plan to create new products and services to complement our strong position of high-quality liquid assets.
It is important to note that no major balance sheet initiatives are expected in order for us to be compliant.
Let’s take a few minutes and touch on our expectations for the remainder of 2015.
With respect to loans we continue to expect total loan growth in the 4% to 6% range on a point-to-point basis.
Commercial and industrial loans are expected to drive loan growth within the business lending portfolio.
And while owner-occupied commercial real estate is not expected to provide meaningful growth the pace of runoff is expected to slow.
Looking at the consumer lending book we expect continued growth from indirect auto lending.
We will continue to focus on driving better pull-through rates increasing margins and improving overall credit profiles.
We also expect to augment growth through new partnerships later in the year.
Additionally continued growth in other consumer loans is expected.
We are focused on expanding lending through online and point-of-sale financing alternatives.
And as a result we expect growth in this category to accelerate in 2015.
Moving to credit card as we remain focused on increasing our penetration rates this should drive balance growth in the near term.
And finally we expect the pace of home equity runoff to moderate throughout the year.
Regarding deposits while we had a better-than-anticipated first quarter we expect full year average deposit growth in the 1% to 2% range.
As a reminder a significant portion of our deposits are made up of consumer deposits which tend to be more granular and smaller in size which based on our research should be more stable and less rate sensitive in a rising rate environment.
With respect to margin our expectations for the year have not changed materially.
We expect to drive net interest income and margin growth over the balance of the year under our baseline expectations for loan growth and an increase in interest rates late in the year.
Further we expect to benefit from revenue initiatives within mortgage capital markets and wealth management while at the same time diligently managing expenses.
That being said we are committed to generating positive operating leverage.
We believe that the first quarter was a solid start for 2015 and we will continue to execute on our strategic priorities of diversifying revenue generating positive operating leverage and effectively deploying our capital.
With that we thank you for your time and attention this morning.
And I’ll now turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A -- excuse me-- the Q&amp;A session of our call.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning and there are number of you in the queue I would ask each caller to please limit yourself to one primary question and one related follow-up.
Now let's open up the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning Erika.
Good morning.
My first question is on the $949 million in C&amp;I loan growth in the quarter.
How much of that $949 million was related to your oil and gas sector? Erika during the quarter we really had kind of moved sideways in terms of our oil and gas.
That was really a far broader base expansion of the loan portfolio outside of the energy sector.
Great.
And my follow-up question is in terms of your guidance for positive operating leverage it sounds like you're still accounting for some rate increases in the back half of the year which many investors are sort of stripping out of their model.
Could you still hit positive operating leverage if the Fed doesn't raise rates this year? Erika it would be very difficult if rates stayed in the $1.75 to $2 range.
To do that we can get close but it would be difficult.
As I mentioned in the prepared comments we do expect -- we have baked in little bit of an increase in September and a little one in December.
But really loan growth for us is important when we saw loan growth this quarter and deposit growth and earning asset growth.
That’s a pretty big positive for us going into this whole concept of generating positive operating leverage.
So it’s not out of the question.
It does make it more difficult.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Good morning Michael.
Hey good morning.
Just wanted to follow up on the energy topic.
Can you disclose how much of this quarter's provision related to the review of the energy book? And then where do reserves stand? And if you can’t give a specific number maybe you can give us some context as where they stand now versus maybe where they stood in ‘09 when we had a similar price decline? Yeah.
So Michael we won’t disclose the specific dollar amount attributable to this but clearly we have a process I’ve talked in the prepared comments about our servicing that we are going through.
We have relatively small number of customers in this sector whether it’d be our E&amp;P customer base or oilfield services customer.
So we’re spending a lot of time with them and we understand where those credits are.
We had some migration down.
The migration you saw that was not just in the energy sector it was other sectors.
Healthcare and even some other industries that really contributed to that.
But we have a very disciplined process from a lending standpoint.
We do have amounts in our calculation attributable to energy.
That allocation has increased as our credits continues to migrate down this past quarter.
So we feel like we have those credits appropriately reserved right now.
Yeah Mike.
We’ve got a very rigorous disciplined process for credit servicing and risk ratings.
And obviously we saw a number of risk rating downgrades in the energy portfolio and particular in the oilfield services part of that portfolio.
That being said we’ve got a lot of confidence in our customer selection and in our risk rating process and feel very good about where we are at today.
That being said I had asked John Turner if he would.
John runs our Corporate Banking Group here at Regions and all of our energy lending reports up to John asking if he would make a few comments for oilfield services in particular.
Happy to.
Thanks Grayson.
Just commenting from a risk mitigation standpoint with respect to oilfield services we have been through the process of reviewing about 80% of our outstanding.
We did that about 45 days ago and we do that on a quarterly basis.
As a result of that review what we observed was that about 25% of the book had previously been downgraded.
Virtually all those downgrades were well within the past categories.
And as a result of that quarterly review because our bankers have previously downgraded credit really didn’t downgrade any additional credit.
We do anticipate given what has clearly been some reduction in capital spending that in the latter part of the second quarter the third quarter and fourth quarter as we begin to get year end results for some of these companies we should see some additional downward migration.
But as David pointed out we have a small group of customers that represent our exposure here.
We are closer to those customers and we think they are doing the right things to manage their business in a difficult environment.
Separately we think about our reserve based lending portfolio.
We have now been through the borrowing base redeterminations for 25% of our book and what we have observed is about a 20% reduction in borrowing base availability customers still have about 40% of availability on average under the lines of credit.
Half of the credits we’ve reviewed have remained at their current risk rating.
The other half has seen again some downward migration in risk rating but virtually all of that has been within the past category.
And so we remain cautiously comfortable with the credit exposure we have in both the reserve based lending and the oilfield services books.
Okay.
That’s great color.
And then maybe as a follow-up to Eric’s question who asked in a different way.
If rates do stay lower for longer what areas in the expense side would you look to maybe trim a little bit or take some more actions to maybe meet that positive operating leverage goal? Thanks.
Yeah.
Mike I would tell you we are not waiting to see what happens with the rate environment.
I think being disciplined around expense management is just part of who we are.
We’ve talked about that for a number of years.
Cleary the big drivers for us are our three largest categories of expense -- salaries and benefits occupancy furniture and fixtures are the areas that you have to move the needle on to get any meaningful change.
We have deployed a lot of six sigma initiatives throughout our company to improve the processes.
Those process improvements are -- some of those were actually revenue enhancement opportunities but some of those are -- from a cost standpoint to control costs.
We are down in headcount a 122 from the end of the year to the end of the first quarter.
And so you should see us look at those three categories and really every other one.
You saw legal and professional down as we continue to watch really third-party spend.
That’s probably the fourth biggest one making sure that we are -- we need a third-party that we hold them accountable.
And in the good old days when we were kind of going through all the changes in the industry we had to go hire our consultant and throw a lot of labor hours and expense to solve whatever problem we have.
Today we are little more disciplined and in terms of meeting to go out for third-parties so that’s why that cost is down.
And we will continue to look at that category and outside services being quite a fit.
Those were five years that we target.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning John.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
David I wanted to ask about the deposit service charge line.
Just in terms of the first quarter number if you look at the 161 is that really advanced or fully out of that and should we see some -- separately some pickup seasonally from the first quarter level? That’s right.
So it was embedded in that decline from the fourth quarter to the first.
Half of that was already advanced rolling out finally.
We should not have anything going forward on that in the second quarter.
And as you mentioned the first quarter is a seasonal low for NSF.
And so based on those we will see what customer behavior does going forward.
The good thing is we are growing accounts.
So if we continue to grow accounts service charges will be expected to grow commensurate with that.
And then in the second half of this year do we still expect some incremental pressure from changes in posting order and do you have any update in terms of your plans on rolling that out and timing? We’ve gone through a mile or so and our expectation is that update is still in the $10 million to $15 million per quarter range.
When we implement which we expect right now to be in the back half of the year.
We have not been as definitive on that date yet but we are continuing to go through pilots and learning.
And as we get closer we will give you more specific guidance.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
On credit this quarter we saw the smallest release since 2011 and given your comments on what’s happening with energy is it reasonable to expect that the provisions going to start to exceed charge-offs as we look ahead to the rest of the year? Bill I think that at this juncture what we saw this quarter is that the vast majority of our credit metrics all improved.
And so we are still feeling very comfortable about the direction that our asset quality is moving.
That being said we did have pretty solid loan growth this quarter as well as we’ve discussed some risk rating downward migration of somewhat credits then I would tell you it is fairly broadened.
Certainly there were two or three credits in energy two or three credits in healthcare and some general industries that drove that migration.
But that being said sticking to our process sticking to our methodology making sure we are going through that with a lot of rigor a lot of discipline.
And so when you look at the quarters going forward we still believe that the general direction holds true that we should continue to see improvements in asset quality.
That being said you can always have given where we are at in the cycle and given the level that our loan -- problem loans were at today you can always have just a handful of credits spend to create some level of volatility for quarter.
But we are still confident in the direction of the portfolio.
To the extent you see we continue to see net charge-offs coming down and non-performing loans coming down.
Our release was only $5 million which dropped our coverage of loans from 143 to 140.
But you could see if that continues charge-offs down and NPLs down you could see that ratio continue to migrate down as credit continues to improve notwithstanding Grayson’s point that you can have volatility in some of this from time to time.
Well we hope that loan growth continues on a prudent and modes rate and that’s going to again have to be calculated into our division expense.
Understood.
Thank you.
The other question that I had is on the consumer side.
We are seeing growth as you discussed but it looks like it’s a pretty steady deceleration in credit card and indirect auto loans for the last few quarters.
So it’s certainly growth but decelerating year-over-year.
I was hoping that you could maybe go a little deeper into both of those businesses.
Should we expect that rate of growth to continue to decelerate there? Well I think -- and I will speak and David can add to this.
I think when you look at the consumer what we’ve seen is that consumer appears to be paying down debt and servicing debt at a faster rate than they were and holding more liquidity in their depository accounts.
And so we are seeing a generally healthier consumer from a credit and deposit perspective.
As long as the prices of the old pump stay where they are at the gas pump stay where they are at I think the customer has a lot more liquidity disposable income than it previously has and they appear to be very conservative in the way they are using that.
I do think when you look at the two sectors you mentioned the credit card.
We are seeing -- we are still seeing very strong production.
In our credit card portfolio we think that production does translate into an increased and outstanding balances as we go forward.
But there is a lot of seasonality to credit card and we think we are seeing some of that this quarter.
But we still think that we’ve got -- given the growth rate of new credit cards which is growing at about 10 000 cards this quarter we think we’ve got -- we think we’ve got an opportunity there to continue to grow that portfolio.
The auto sector is a little bit different question and that auto sales are still very strong but there is more competition in that marketplace today.
And we are more disciplined each and everyday in that space.
And I think that our pace of growth of that portfolio has moderated but we are still growing.
And we still are active in that marketplace which you should expect us to retain our discipline and how we lend into that space.
And so we still feel good about it but I do think the pace of growth will moderate.
Yes.
I would add credit card it’s a seasonal low.
If you go back and look at the trend we are down in the first quarter historically.
But I mean the growth over last year at the same time is 5% of credit card.
And you heard the growth that we’re getting on production.
From an indirect standpoint I would add a couple of things.
One we’re up almost 14% if you look year-on-year.
Linked quarter it was only 1.6%.
What we’ve done over the past is we’ve really weeded out some of the dealers we are doing business with as we believe we’re getting adversely selected.
Our loss rates were higher.
And so we actually are down several hundred dealers.
And we are looking at getting with the larger dealer groups.
We worked on some Six Sigma initiatives to help us from full through rates to expand production there in the industry.
The automobile industry had been in the 16 million units going to -- we’ve seen estimates as high as 17 million units for this year.
So we think we will get our fair share of that and look to grow indirect in '15.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Stephen Scouten of Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning Stephen.
Good morning guys.
Question on kind of asset sensitivity and NIM.
I mean I know you said you’re forecasting a rate increase maybe in September and December but would you guys foresee any changes in the way you look at your portfolio whether it would be adding on swaps or other kind of [indiscernible] if that rate hike doesn’t play out as you expect currently? Well we ask ourselves everyday what we ought to do to manage our interest risk.
And given where rates are we believe have been and continued to believe be an asset sensitive is the right thing to do.
If perhaps we got a quick rise in rates we might want to lock in a little bit of advice to downside protection from there.
That might be a time to put some interest swaps.
But right now we are looking at the 10-year where it is and expecting a rate increase to come because we do know but they are on the short rates we are just at a kind of a false bottom.
We know that has to increase and whether or not we get the long end to steep or where we have a flat yield we don’t yet know.
But there will be a time when we consider that stronger than we are right this minute.
We think there is more biased to up rate than there is to the down rates.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just as it pertains to kind of the balance between the loan growth that you expect to see and deposit growth I know you said for the year maybe deposit growth should be 1% to 2%.
But if you had another quarter like the strong deposit growth you saw this quarter what would your expectation be there increased security investments or kind of how would you manage that loan to deposit ratio where would you want that to pan out? Thank you.
I mean clearly we look to -- we are encouraged to see deposit grow as strong as it was in this quarter.
It exceeded our internal expectations but was very promising news.
And with one quarter it doesn’t necessarily make a trend and we are still projecting for the full year sort of a 1% 2% deposit growth.
We would love to be wrong on that and deposits exceed that but I think we’ve got to have another quarter or so before we’re convinced that that is true.
I do think from a loan to deposit standpoint we certainly would like to see loan growth more robust that it is to allow us to get a better balance and come closer to peers on our loan deposit ratio.
But given the growth and deposits we saw this quarter well we backed up a 1% or so in that regard.
So we are seeing strong lending pipelines and hopefully we will have -- we will see continued strength in loan demand.
But I don’t -- at this don’t see a strong amount to offset the growth in deposits that we are seeing.
Yes.
I think as a result of that you’re seeing us our securities books still pretty high percentage of our earning asset base little higher than we would like but we are not going to manufacture loan growth.
The loan growth is there and is prudently underwritten that we will deploy that cash there but if not within the securities book.
We have been relatively short on securities and we paid a price for that in terms of the lower NIM but we think that’s the right call.
And to the extent we had deposit growth outside in that 1 to 2 that’s what we would absent the loan growth.
Thanks so much guys.
Your next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
David I was trying to get some clarity on the outlook for the net interest margin.
Clearly you are saying that there is increase for rates in your budget.
But how do we think about the trajectory of the NIM before we actually get interest rates rising? And I just wanted to make sure that your guidance you gave us last quarter was still applicable.
So after 10 years stays at around the current level the downside case could be 10 to 12 basis points.
Yes.
Ryan you’re right it’s got a little better.
We think to the extent we stay in.
Again last quarter we said the 1.75% to 2% 10-year.
If we took that today that probably would be in the 9 to 10 basis point range.
So that tie better than what we disclosed to you last quarter.
And just the trajectory of it? Yes.
I think we would continue to have pressure leading into '16 with this low rate environment.
Excuse me this is Operator can you hear me? Maintaining this low rate environment.
Got it.
And then just on expenses you’re obviously down year-over-year in the first quarter and you are talking about being -- remaining committed to prudent expense management.
But I was just wondering given what you’re doing on the branch side you talked about reducing professional fees and you’re referring something about pacing.
Should we see the absolute level of expenses declined for the remainder of this year relative to 2014? We gave you a little bit into prepared comments.
We had a couple of things so we had some benefits from -- $15 million benefit in the first quarter that offset the payroll tax increases that won’t repeat.
We also will have the impact of our merit increases that we gave our folks.
We will have a full quarter of that.
And then we had our legal and professional fees were down quite a bit from historical quarters.
We think that there is some volatility there.
I don’t think it will be back where it was a quarter before.
But I am not as confident that they could repeat at the level that we had this past quarter.
So you might see a little bit of a tick up from that.
But that being said we are looking at every expense category everyday to control those going forward to '15 into '16.
And David just one quick follow-up on that.
When I look back on past years there is not much seasonality heading into 2Q on the comp line.
I am just wondering if you maybe size for us how big of an increase we should expect for things like merit increases? Well if you -- we have increases been in that 2.5% range on salaries for merit and then I told you about the '15 that won’t repeat.
So you can do some and we had 11 million that was in there already for payroll taxes.
So if you take those three things you will get pretty close.
Thanks for taking my question.
Your next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim Securities.
Hi Eric.
Hi.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
I just wanted to circle back on the credit quality issue.
The information that you’ve given about the energy portfolio is perhaps better than what we might have expected but it sounds like maybe some of the other stuff is a little bit worse -- considering that there isn’t necessarily evident pressure on other sectors of the economy.
So I am wondering if you could just maybe us some insight about what’s causing the negative reading of migration in areas outside of the energy portfolio.
Yes.
I think one things we wanted to communicate to you is that migration was really was handful of large credits and there are some in energy some in healthcare and other industries.
And really if you look behind that it’s idiosyncratic issues with each of those.
There is nothing systemic with them that caused that rating downgrade.
There were downgrades within the past category.
You saw downgrades into classified but there is really nothing again systemic there that causes us concern with overall portfolio.
Okay.
So just in terms -- I mean you have been very clear about your overall expectations for NPL.
But I guess my -- is that just a function then of the expectation that these idiosyncratic issues have not been sort of addressed and there is nothing similar on the horizon about basically the interpretation? That’s right.
We feel live we’ve recognized what the issues are.
Clearly each of these has their own story and defending on where that story goes you can have further downgrades through the deterioration.
We are just trying to send the messages that there is nothing systemic that these are handful of credits that really caused us this issue.
So hopefully we believe we recognized the issues that are there today and where they go from here they can get better they might get worse and we will take up that real time and there are provisioning.
But we think we’ve gotten our arms around it.
Thanks very much.
Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer if would like few comments.
Yeah.
I just going to jump in and say I am looking at list what did migrate? And firstly the majority of them are paying as agreed.
We are very close to our customers in terms of the credit servicing and making sure that if we see anything at all that we will move that into a non-pass rated category until things cure themselves.
But as I’m looking at the reasons they have to renew a largest contract another was the systems issue delay another was billing and order processing issue et cetera.
So there is nothing that I saw in there as we -- and we do go through each and everyone of this credit prior to this call.
That said there is the warning signal or there’s some emerging risk that we have to recognize.
I also would anticipate that the majority of these credits will move back to a pass category in the next few quarters.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Good morning Ken.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just a question on the securities portfolio it’s been about the same size and your yields actually went up a little bit sequentially.
And I just wanted to understand as you’re trying to manage the rate environment LCR et cetera? Are your investment yields coming in higher or was there a delta in premium amortization that you could perhaps explain as well? Thanks.
Yeah.
Ken it’s a couple of things.
One the day count does impact that so we moved I think it was what 244 to 251 and premium amortization for us was down a little bit about $3 million so it didn’t take a whole lot to move that around a little bit.
We -- I think your basis -- your question is are we doing anything structurally different the answer is no.
Okay.
And then second question is just given -- you’ve talked about this in the past as your relatively strong positioning from a capital perspective and you did do a good job in terms of raising your CCAR asked relative to prior years? But you’re still sitting on a tremendous bed of excess capital? So with regards to opportunities like you did this quarter to take down the long-term debt? Can you just give us any updated thoughts on whether it’s the outstanding commercial portfolios that are out there potentially or acquisition appetite? Any updated thoughts on your incremental uses of excess capital? Thanks.
Yeah.
So one of our three strategic pillars is really effectively deploying our capital we did that through our 2015 CCAR as you mentioned.
We do realized we have excess still and but the things we want to deploy it in the way we think about it is we want to deploy it in our loan growth and when we have excess after that we look to have acquisitions with this banks or non-banks.
We’re doing a lot of work around that.
To use the excess capital I want to be real clear that we think about acquisition is more about using the excess capital paying cash versus using our shares where they are priced today and so we’re looking at that to the extent.
We can do some transactions and still have some excess capital perhaps we will return that to the shareholders because we don’t want that denominator of the return on tangible common equity to continue to grow and accrete.
We need to get that more optimize so that we can get our return metrics where we wanted to be.
It just takes time and we will get there.
Thank you Grayson.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
I want to see if you can give a little more color on loan yields in the first quarter.
We saw -- heard a few increases in select portfolios including commercial real estate owner occupied investor mortgage all up -- selectively.
I just want to get the drivers of that and if we should expect that such yields can remain stable or even move higher from here? John you mentioned so overall loan yields you can see we’re down 1 point.
Some of that can be driven my mix.
We’re trying to stay pretty discipline with our pricing.
If you look at our loan growth relative to peer all through 2014 we grew nicely at 3.6% for that year so we’re below our peers.
Part of that’s being disciplined in terms of what we want to put on our books and making sure we’ll get paid to the risks that take.
As we think about expectations for increasing or improving the easiest portfolio for that to happen is really in our home equity portfolio because we have -- still have a portion of our home equity portfolio that was priced at prime minus -- a half of prime minus 1 and as refinance activity takes that out we get a little bit of an increase in home equity.
You can see it was up just 1 point this past quarter.
So we’re really trying.
I guess the main thing is we’re trying to be discipline with regard to pricing but I would not expect any major increase in loan yields over the near-term.
And John I just think you have to -- we’re trying to remain very discipline around loan pricing and I think we’ve done a pretty good job there.
That being said it’s a very competitive marketplace today and you are trying to book the prudent loans that you have the opportunity too.
But with the level of competition in the market it’s hard to move those rates up absence some kind of interest rate increase.
Right.
But I guess what I was getting and also is that if you look at the linked quarter change in the portfolio yield for your commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied as well as the non-owner occupied portfolios.
They actually saw an increase linked quarter in the average yield and just wondering how you accomplish that? They also do it and predominantly there’s some mix of loans in those categories as we got new and renewed production.
And if you look at the pure dollars they’re in our supplement you’ll see that the interest income from those portfolios remained relatively the same.
And in the case of investor real estate mortgage we had some properties that rolled out the portfolio that we’re at lower rates than what we are going on.
So it just looks a lot we increased not sure a 10 basis points but look at the income is really only a $1 million difference so it get a little bit of an anomaly when you look at it just quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
And then my second topic was just around the credit deterioration again in the healthcare and other portfolios.
And all -- were they share national credits at all? And then separately what was the average size of those credits that moved on the classified status? Yes.
So handful of them were shared national credits.
In fact the majority of them were shared national credits that did move wherein we don’t leas any of those shared national credits.
And in terms of the average size it would be approximately $30 million each.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just had a question around the debt refinancing.
You have a stack of -- high cost debt behind what you just refi and I’m wondering what your though are on continuing that process? Betsy so we -- the remaining debt that we have is really tied to capital instrument.
So anything that’s a capital instrument has to be subject to the CCAR process.
As we think about -- have thought about that we want to be careful in terms of just getting high cost debt it’s uneconomical.
In other words the payback period advance so excessively long would make sense to us.
If you recalculate the payback period on what we did take out between two three years so that works for us when you start going out six and seven eight nine years is just doesn’t make it worth our while.
Notwithstanding the fact we know we have excess capital but we just don’t think that’s the right things for us to do.
Go ahead.
I was just going to say if the rate environment continues to stay lower for longer or tougher for longer doesn’t the math start to work in your favor to take down some more of this debt? If it’s lower it actually -- it still works against us because we maybe able to get an issue out there that’s fairly cheap relative to what we have.
The premium that you have to pay to take it out is just enormous and that’s really where we get stripped up.
If we get the holders to take it without a premium it would be good.
Yeah.
Unlikely to happen.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning folks.
Just I have a question on the deposit growth which you’ve mentioned a couple of times.
And perhaps this is specific to David’s comments about retail deposits.
But it look like the non-interest bearing deposits balances were up about $1.8 billion on an end of period basis which has been up only about $300 million on an average basis.
What’s going on there and does that have any implication for your outlook for deposit growth in the next couple of quarters? Yeah.
I mean we spend a lot of time.
You are obviously analyzing the deposit growth.
And I think the good news is what we’ve found is that the growth has been broad across our markets.
It was not isolated to a particular market or a group of markets but was fairly broad based and across markets that we serve.
To David’s point a moment ago we are growing accounts and growing households that are banking with us.
And so we’re obviously starting to see the benefit of that.
But most of our growth as you’ve seen was in the low cost deposit or non-interest bearing deposit categories which is some of the more favorable deposit mix that we could have hoped for.
We do know that there is some seasonality to these deposits.
There is tax reforms that are occurring for consumers today.
We also know that the consumer is having a fairly substantial benefit and reduction in gasoline prices that they are having to pay.
When you aggregate all that consumers as we mentioned are really servicing and paying down consumer debt in a much more productive manner this quarter than we’ve seen last quarter.
And we also are seeing much more liquidity on the part of those consumers.
So it’s a behavioral change at least for this quarter that we’ve seen in our consumer base.
I think we’ve got to have a little more time before we absolutely agree that that’s a behavioral change with some link to it.
But so far it’s a very promising start in 2015.
In that regard we’ve just got to see how well it holds up.
Okay.
And David a quick administrative questions for you.
In terms of the branch consolidation charge this quarter you mentioned that was related to your plans to reduce branches by about 50 this year.
Should we expect future charges along those lines or is that it for this year related to the 50 you’ve mentioned? We don't have any current plans for further consolidation at this time.
That being said we constantly look at our network including where we might want to consolidate where we might want to build new branches.
We still believe that is a very important channel for our customer base.
And so while we don't have plans today we will continue to look at refining and to the extent we see opportunities to consolidate we’ll do so.
Okay.
Thank you for the color.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning Paul.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Most of the questions have been already asked.
But I want to ask a little bit about the mortgage side of business.
One of your competitors in your region was seeing very strong purchase production of growth over the last couple of months especially out of State of Florida.
Can you add any color around that have you seen the same thing? We have.
If we look at our production you can see it in our supplement.
But our production from a purchase standpoint was 60% of our volume and refi 40.
So we're seeing a strong purchase.
It was down a little bit for us in the first quarter relative to the fourth.
Refis really picked up given the rate environment that we saw and we like that volume that we are seeing going into the quarters.
So we are looking for a continuation of improvement throughout the year in particular next quarter but it’s fairly consistent with what you're describing.
I mean all of the -- all the metrics that we are following in the mortgage business were positive at the moment.
We like most people anticipate a very strong second and third quarter.
The mix shift in the purchase versus refinance moved around a little bit on this quarter because of the rate flow but overall much better picture in the mortgage business.
Okay.
Hey guys.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
Hello there.
You’ve talked a couple of times this year about the opportunity to acquire some servicing assets on the mortgage side.
Could you just give an update on your appetite there and how that fits into your broader thoughts on deployment of capital? Yeah.
So the three pillars to our strategy as we mentioned one of them is diversifying revenue and the other one is deploying capital.
Positive operating leverage is third one in the middle.
So if you think about diversifying revenue for us we believe we have a competitive advantage in servicing.
We are very good at it.
It’s a low cost operation for us and we have room to put that on our books even though capital charge coming through in Basel III is a little more onerous.
We believe that’s a good use of our capital and have been looking for portfolios to purchase.
But we aren’t going to buy descending portfolio.
We want to buy portfolios in our market and we want a portfolio where there just can be our customers.
We did do one deal of $406 million but we are out there looking.
There are a lot of -- there are people shopping some today that we’ve taken a look at.
But we are pretty strict in terms of what we are willing to take on.
And then in terms of the size of portfolios that you are looking at can you give us a sense on that? Yeah the sense of the portfolios that we are looking at? Yeah.
Well we want them to be on our footprint.
The size -- sorry the size of the portfolios? Yeah.
Somewhere in the $500 million to a $1 billion dollar range is what we’ll be looking at.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Good morning Marty.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
David I had a very technical kind of accounting.
When you talk about the affordable housing you talked about the increase in the tax rate and then you talked about an increase in fee income I think.
Was there just a compression of fee income from the affordable housing because I’ve seen it in expenses and not income? So I just wanted to make sure that was the right geography? Yeah.
It’s an income for us Marty.
It’s an offset.
It had been an offset to income historically for us when we adopted the accounting literature.
We took that offset which was a debit and we moved that down to the tax line.
So it actually improved our NIR and it -- our tax expense also went higher about that 300 basis I’ve mentioned.
So it’s just geography.
Okay.
And then the other thing that I was looking at was we’ve kind of head up what you might call a stall point here with a couple of issues creating some headwinds one of them the catalysts that you are really looking for besides rates that could create the next earnings momentum for you over the next year or two.
Thanks.
Well I think that deploying our capital is important too.
There is no single one thing that we knock it out in the park.
It’s doing a lot of things well.
It’s executing our business plans.
It’s containing to grow loans and deposits.
It’s continuing to deploy our capital looking at acquisitions from banks and non-banks making the investments in people.
You can look at wealth management as a prime example of.
We’ve taken the medicine and making investments in people knowing that it’s going to take to generate revenue.
We believe further investment in those people in wealth management as a example.
It is the right thing to do.
There are other businesses we are looking at doing the same thing too.
Capital markets is an area where we’d like to expand and be larger in as we differentiate or diversify away from spread.
And so we are like you we are not sitting here waiting for rates to bail us out.
We are making -- we are making a difference by growing these revenue sources watching our expenses as we go but needing to make the investments of dollars to generate revenue growth.
Yes.
But Marty I think it’s a great question and a very relevant question where the industry is right now.
And quite honestly we don’t see some one thing that we could do that would alter our power momentum.
What we are committed to is very steady and consistent progress in strengthening our balance sheet strengthening our business.
And we had over the last couple of years really trying to put in a whole new set of strategies for how we grow our core business and we are starting to see the fruits of that labor and that we are seeing growth more broadening across our markets and more broadly across our product lines.
We obviously are augmenting our product lines and we are augmenting number of people we are partnering with to grow our business.
But I think to David’s point the biggest thing that would help from earnings standpoint is the rate environment but we can’t wait on that we can’t depend on that.
And plus our core business is really the long-term sustainable help for the company.
And so I think you are going to continue to see us very broadly in a diversified way continue to try to grow all aspects of our business.
And if we can do that in a very steady and consistent manner I think we’ve got a very sustainable business model and one where shareholders benefit long-term.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Good morning Gerard.
Good morning Grayson.
Question David you were talking about using the excess capital to potentially buy portfolios or even obviously give it back to shareholders.
But you did also mention that your primary purpose is to grow the loan portfolio of course.
If we put aside your excess capital that you have today and we just look at your ongoing earnings how much loan growth do you need every year to optimize the excess capital you create every year so you don't need to go out and buy a portfolio or buy another bank? Yes.
That's a great a question.
I think if you looked at our generation you could almost have a third of that be used 30% 40% of that be used up for loan growth you are going to have 30% of 35% maybe 40% in dividends over time.
And then the other would be return to the shareholders.
That’s kind of what the math would lead you to.
But we want to grow we have -- we do have the excess and we have to put that to work.
But outside of excess I think it’s almost third to third to third.
And when you look at the third for a loan growth what kind of loan growth would you need to use that third of the capital is it 8% or 9% per annum or 3% or 4%? Yes.
It’s in that 4% 5% range.
Good.
And then circling back to your syndicated loans of the oil presence or energy presence that you have with that portfolio of over $2 billion if I recall how much of that is in syndicated loans? And second as part of that is your approach -- when one moves into a classified category is your approach to a syndicated loan where you are a participant different than your approach when it's not a syndicated loan and you are the lead and you are working with the customer? Firstly the majority of our product in energy is syndicated loan I believe that roughly 86% are syndicated.
Secondly we are the lead versus the participant irrespective.
We are still required even at the participant to make sure we have all of the appropriate information about that customer.
We work with the agents and we make our own determination as to what that risk rating should be.
And it can be different from the agent.
Often it is not different from the agent however and they are think that once a year typically during the Shared National Credit exam.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Good morning.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning or afternoon here.
I had a question about the pull-through rates on any or indirect auto business again just so we visit that.
I think you had mentioned that you’re doing some Six Sigma initiatives there and that’s led to some improvement in pull-through rates.
But I was curious if those -- that improvement was related to maybe any sort of bottlenecks in terms of your ability to underwrite those loans have you automated the underwriting? Or can you just tell us specifically what you may have changed there that’s helped improve pull-through rates? Yes.
That’s a great question.
So I had mentioned earlier we deployed our Six Sigma teams throughout the banks.
Some of them are revenue producers and some of them are expense management.
This particularly one was revenue producing and what we have found is that they analyzed our process and noted that in some cases when an application would come through our sender that it would get kicked out for certain underwriting exceptions that would then force a human being to look at the underwriting and force that person to make a decision whether or not they are going to approve it.
And by the time that happens that deals already being done with the dealer because the dealer requires speed of execution.
So what we did is we found that those cases where an underwriter is approving the deal we changed our algorithm to build into that the acceptance so that it wouldn’t kick out.
And that improved -- that one change improved our pull-through rate quite substantially.
And that was a big driver of our increase in revenue over the past couple of quarters.
We really try to focus our teams on the larger dealer groups.
And if you look at this business obviously quality of answer is important quality of answer is important both to the customer to the dealer and to us.
But the speed of answer is also very critical.
And so we’ve worked on both.
We’ve greatly improved our quality of answer and we’ve greatly improved our speed of answer all through automation and also in terms of bargaining who we want to do business with.
And from a dealer standpoint -- and so that rationalization of how we do business and who we do it with has made a tremendous difference in our pull-through rates.
That’s very interesting.
Thank you.
And then just another question in terms of the consolidation of your bank branches I think it sounded like more or less done based on your guidance 50 branches but could look at ongoing opportunities.
But are you using any sort of Six Sigma initiatives there also to rationalize these branches? And as you think about consolidating these branches or the process that you follow to what extend do you look at just a kind of the marginal profitability so marginal revenue minus marginal cost because it seems like you probably have a lot of centralized technology and IT cost that is spread across the branches.
And to the extent you shut down these branches if they’re marginally profitable then you don’t get to leverage those technology costs.
So are the efficiency items more important do you look at marginal revenue marginal costs and how do you think about that? Yeah.
I mean -- first of all our branch rationalization process is the continuous process.
And we’re constantly looking at transaction activities marginal cost marginal profitability and trying to figure out what the -- our branches deliver in terms of direct contributions making sure that all of our branches are profitable on direct basis.
And -- but when you look at the analytics of the branch system and where we consolidate and where we expand that process is very comprehensive.
And you have to factor in the relevance of branch because still 80% of our new account sales come from the branch offices.
And so we are very careful to determine if we consolidate the branch how many of those customers do we lose that has a lot to do with where they’re being consolidated into how far away that receiving branch is from the consolidated branch.
We also have to factor in the community impact of that even though lot of our customers bank with us over digital channels.
That bank branches is still a community asset and it’s still an asset that that community values and we have to think through all of those issues before we consolidate.
We have tried to really still be engaged in all of our communities and deliver service in all our communities.
We try to do that the most efficient way we can.
So those analytics are comprehensive and they have done on ongoing basis.
And we think that while we’ll continue to see consolidation opportunities we also see the need where some communities need more branches.
And so on a net-net basis when we think about it we are not sure that our number of branches over time diminishes that much.
In fact we think over the next few years we’ll be relatively stable.
Well we don’t let the analytics drive that.
And so we let the analytics tell us whether we ought to expand and whether we ought to contract.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the explanation.
Your next question comes from David Eads of UBS.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
You have given some pretty good color on various kind of line items in loans.
But I was wondering if you talk a little about what you are seeing in the real estate constructing portfolio you’ve guys have had some pretty strong growth there recently.
Just curious how big that can get and how kind of what trends you are seeing there? Yeah.
This is John Turner.
When you speak about construction I guess you mean overall just generally in the portfolio I would say.
In the -- in the investor real estate construction line? Yeah.
So we very focused on managing that exposure fairly tightly as high resource across all the markets that we do business in.
Majority of the exposure would break down between homebuilder finance which is $700 million plus portfolio and there are multi-family business.
And I think what you are saying is that portfolio grows it’s funding under previously approved construction facilities really have not been originating a lot of additional multi-family credit over the last six plus months.
And so primarily the growth is fundings under a portfolio that currently has duration of about 23 plus or minus months.
So fairly short duration a lot of turnover and again we’re managing as a very finite resource given what we believe is some softness in a few of the markets that we operate in.
All right.
So we sort of expect that growth to taper off here pretty quickly? I would say yes expected to moderate.
Great.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja of J.P.
Morgan.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon John and Grayson.
So look at your efficient ratio.
Perhaps back the $50 million your core efficiency ratio 66% was it similar to last quarter and a year ago? And we factor in the deposit advance -- sorry not the deposit but NSF fee decline that you’re already seeing in the second half.
It seems to me is going to be tough to go much below this even though you’re working on cost cuts and just continued improvement.
Can you walk through what else you need to do to try and get the efficiency ratio really down materially? Well we have focused on our efficiency ratio the big driver there is revenue generation.
And we made the investments we talk about the growth that we seen in NIR.
We’ve seen the loan grows as our revenue grows and it takes a little bit of pressure of the expense side but we’re working on that too.
If we take all three -- two revenue improvements in NII and NIR and work it on expense we do expect the efficiency ratio to drift down but our goals is to get down into lower 60s.
We really want to be in the 55 to 59 range but we’ll have to have a rate increase to get there.
So absent that we would be in the -- we expect to be in lower 60s.
So it’s a focus every day.
Lower 60s even post the NSF reduction David? With a rate increase yes.
With the rate increase.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I believe that is the last question.
We appreciate everyone’s time and attention today.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation’s Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I will be your operator for today’s call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation on our call today.
Our presenters this morning are Grayson Hall our Chief Executive Officer and David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of management are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking statement that is located in the appendix section of the presentation.
Grayson? Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We are pleased you could join us for today’s call.
Second quarter results reflect our continued momentum in 2015 as we reported earnings of $269 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
These results demonstrate we are successfully executing our strategic priorities.
In the second quarter we experienced increases in metrics that we believe are fundamental to future income growth including households checking accounts credit card accounts and Regions360 relationship.
This growth has been broad-based geographically as all of our areas continued to expand and deepen relationships through our needs-based approach to relationship banking.
Total revenue was particularly strong as both net interest income and non-interest income grew.
Benefiting net interest income was loan growth of 2% and production increases of 28% and our pipelines continued to expand.
Business lending growth was achieved by all three businesses: commercial banking corporate banking and real estate banking.
Within real estate real estate corporate banking and our REIT business growth was particularly strong.
Commercial and corporate growth reflects the strength of our business model as local bankers’ partner with industry and product specialists particularly in Regions Business Capital government institutional banking healthcare and restaurant banking to grow our loan portfolio.
We also had a strong quarter in consumer lending with growth in every loan category.
Of note the home equity portfolio balances increased for the first time in more than 6 years.
Also new point-of-sale loan product offerings drove additional growth in consumer lending.
Further we continued to diversify non-interest income as most categories achieved growth in second quarter demonstrating that Regions360 and our investments are beginning to pay off.
Adjusted non-interest revenue increased 7% from the previous quarter reflecting growth in mortgage capital markets and card and ATM fees in addition to deposit-related service charges.
We continued to refine our retail network strategy as we identified certain parcels of undeveloped land that have been purchased for future branch expansion.
We no longer intend to build on these sites which resulted in additional expense in the second quarter.
At the same time our occupancy expenses declined due in part to branch consolidations executed in prior periods.
This quarter also included some legal and regulatory-related matters that impacted earnings.
First we recorded a charge related to a contingent legal and regulatory item for previously disclosed matters.
And second we received an insurance recovery related to the settlement of a previously disclosed class action lawsuit.
During the quarter asset quality was stable to improving.
Net charge-offs non-performing loans troubled debt restructurings all declined.
The provision for loan losses increased and exceeded net charge-offs.
This increase was primarily attributable to loan growth and reflects the results of the recently completed Shared National Credit exam.
We are continuing to monitor our energy portfolio and have experienced some downward risk rating migration.
If oil prices remain at low levels for an extended period of time additional migration is likely.
We are however staying engaged with our customers and taking necessary actions as appropriate.
Before I turn it over to David let me mention that we are extremely proud that we were the recipient of two prestigious honors this quarter.
First we were recognized by the Reputation Institute and the American Banker Magazine as having the highest reputation with our customers among U.S.
banks.
And second we were honored by Gallup as one of the Best Places to Work.
These honors provided strong evidence that our focus on building a culture based on our core values is resonating with our associates and with our customers.
We are also focused on delivering strong financial results and equally important is how we obtain these results.
The principle is central to fulfilling our mission of creating share value for our customers associates communities and shareholders.
With that I will now turn it over to David who will cover the details for the second quarter.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I will take you through the second quarter details and then wrap up with our expectations for the remainder of 2015.
Loan balances totaled $80 billion at the end of the second quarter up $1.9 billion or 2% from the previous quarter.
Year-to-date loans have increased $2.8 billion or 4%.
Business lending achieved solid growth as balances in this portfolio totaled $51 billion at the end of the quarter an increase of 3%.
Linked quarter production was strong increasing 29%.
Commercial and industrial loans grew $1.7 billion or 5%.
And as Grayson noted all three businesses within business lending experienced growth.
Also line utilization increased 97 basis points and commitments increased 3%.
Consumer lending also had a strong quarter.
Loans in this portfolio totaled $30 billion an increase of 2% and production increased 24% linked quarter.
Mortgage loan balances increased $171 million and production increased 26% linked quarter.
Indirect lending for vehicles increased 2% as production increased 12% and other indirect lending increased $111 million linked quarter and was driven by new partnership that focuses primarily on home improvement retailers.
Now looking at the credit card portfolio balances increased 3% from the previous quarter and our penetration rate now stands at 16.4% an increase of 80 basis points from last year.
And finally total home equity balances increased $45 million from the previous quarter as new production outpaced portfolio runoff in the second quarter.
Let’s take a look at deposits.
Supported by our multi-channel platform average deposit balances totaled $97 billion an increase of $1.3 billion during the second quarter.
Deposit costs remained near historical low levels at 11 basis points while total funding costs were 25 basis points in the quarter.
And let’s look how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable basis was $839 million an increase of 1% from the previous quarter.
Driving this increase was an additional day in the quarter higher loan balances and a decrease in the cost of wholesale borrowings.
This was partially offset by the continued low rate environment and modest compression of spreads in the loan book.
The net interest margin was primarily affected by pressure on asset yields resulting in a 2 basis point margin decline to 3.16%.
Total non-interest income increased $120 million which included $90 million related to insurance proceeds received in the second quarter related to a previously disclosed matter we accrued for in the fourth quarter of 2014.
And this matter settled during the second quarter.
Excluding this item adjusted non-interest income was robust increasing 7% reflecting our investment in and commitment to diversifying and growing fee-based revenues.
Mortgage had a solid quarter as income increased 15%.
Loan production volume and market valuation of mortgage servicing rights also improved.
Capital markets was a significant contributor with a $7 million quarter-over-quarter increase in fees.
This was primarily related to the placement of permanent financing for real estate customers an increase in broker dealer revenue associated with corporate fixed income underwriting and the successful completion of our first M&amp;A advisory engagement.
Card and ATM fees increased 6% as a result of increased debit and credit card usage as customer spending increased 7% and transactions increased 9% over the prior quarter.
Commercial credit fee income increased from the previous quarter due to the reclassification from net interest income.
This lowered net interest income by $3 million and the future run rate of commercial credit free income should be approximately $20 million.
And finally service charges increased 4%.
Now let’s move on to expenses total reported expenses in the second quarter were $934 million which included two charges totaling $75 million.
First as Grayson mentioned we transferred some properties originally purchased for future branch sites to held for sale and incurred a $27 million write-down.
Second professional legal expenses totaled $71 million.
However this included $48 million net accrual for contingent legal and regulatory items for previously disclosed matters.
Importantly based on current information we expect the estimate of recently possible contingent losses to decrease by a significant amount.
Salaries and benefits increased 4% from the previous quarter.
Annual merit increases impacted expenses along with an increase in incentive compensation.
This increase is partially due to unusually low incentives in the first quarter as well as additional incentives tied to revenue growth.
Outside services increased $9 million partially related to fees paid in connection with revenue generation as well as increases in our other costs associated with risk management activities.
However due to the nature of these expenses we believe there are opportunities for improvement going forward.
Deposit administrative fees declined from the first quarter primarily due to refunds from prior periods and the expected run rate for this line item is in the low $20 million range.
Our adjusted efficiency ratio was 64.5% in the quarter an improvement of 40 basis points from the prior period as we continue to make investments in talent and technology for future revenue growth and long-term efficiencies.
Our effective tax rate for the second quarter was 30.1% which included a benefit of $7 million related to the conclusion of state and federal tax examinations.
Excluding this benefit our income tax rate would have been 31.8%.
And moving on to asset quality total net charge-offs declined $8 million and represented 23 basis points of average loans an improvement of five basis points.
The provision for loan losses was $63 million exceeding net charge-offs by $17 million.
And as Grayson mentioned this increase was primarily attributable to loan growth and reflects the results of the recently completed Shared National Credit exam.
Our allowance for loan losses was 1.39% at the end of the second quarter down one basis point from the end of the first quarter.
Total commercial and investor real estate criticized and classified loans increased $126 million or 5% from the prior quarter.
However they remain relatively flat as a percentage of total loans.
The increase was driven by some weakening in large within the energy and other portfolios.
Compared to the prior quarter troubled debt restructurings or TDRs declined 7% and our non-performing notes decreased 6% linked quarter.
And at quarter end our loan loss allowance for non-performing loans or coverage ratio was 149%.
And given where we are in the credit cycle the large dollar commercial credits in our portfolio and fluctuating commodity prices volatility and certain credit metrics can be expected.
Let’s move on to capital and liquidity.
During the quarter we repurchased $172 million or 17 million shares of common stock and declared dividends of $80 million.
During the quarter we returned 94% of earnings back to shareholders.
And under the Basel III provisions we maintained industry-leading capital levels as the Tier 1 ratio was estimated at 12% and common equity Tier 1 was estimated at 11.2%.
On a fully phased-in basis common equity Tier 1 was estimated at 11%.
Liquidity at both the bank and holding company remains solid with a low loan-to-deposit ratio of 83%.
And regarding the liquidity coverage ratio Regions remains well positioned to be fully compliant with the January 2016 implementation deadline.
It is important to note that no major balance sheet initiatives are expected in order for us to be compliant.
So let me give you a brief review of the expectations for the remainder of 2015.
We continue to expect total loan growth in the 4% to 6% range on a point-to-point basis.
However if current momentum continues we should skew towards the higher end of that range.
Regarding deposits we continue to expect full year average deposit growth in the 1% to 2% range.
And with respect to margin our expectations for the year are essentially unchanged and we look for margin to remain relatively stable over the balance of 2015.
However we anticipate net interest income growth under our baseline expectations for loan growth and an increase in interest rates later in the year.
Finally we expect to continue to benefit from revenue initiatives while at the same time prudently managing our expenses and we remain committed to generating positive operating leverage over time.
The second quarter was evidence of our continued momentum in 2015 and we remain focused on executing our financial priorities of diversifying revenue generating positive operating leverage and effectively deploying our capital.
With that we thank you for your time and attention this morning.
And I will turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning I would like to ask each caller to please limit your self to one primary question and one related follow-up question.
Now let’s open up the line for questions operator.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
Question on the margin again Dave thanks for the guidance there – for your expectations for relatively stable just – how would you define that is that give or take a couple of basis points and if so is it fair to assume just given this rate environment that we continue to see some modest degradation maybe a couple of bps a quarter or so until we get the Fed really move in? So John you are right.
We have tried to maintain the definition of relatively stable throughout this last year or so as one to two points either side of where we are right now.
And so when we say that that’s what we are looking for the remainder of the year obviously if we get rates turning on us a little bit and we have the loan growth send the message on the NII growth that we expect to have.
And we should see margin move in that direction.
But right now our call is relatively stable for the remainder of the year.
Okay alright.
And then separately on the expense side I know you had initially given some efficiency ratio expectations and you are talking about the low-60s by the end of ‘15 and I am wondering how you feel about that at this point and then also high-50s or so in ‘16 I am wondering if that is still something that you view as achievable.
Yes.
We have continued to target being in the lower-60s.
To get into the 50s we do need to have a rate increase for that.
Clearly we need two things to happen revenue increases and continued focus on expense management to get our efficiency ratio down.
And we had a 40 basis point improvement in the quarter.
And I think with our internal focus on expense management and continuing to make investments in the right areas to grow our revenue things are working out.
We are moving in that direction.
So to get into the lower 60s will require us to continue on the path that we are on right now.
Okay.
And on that the low 60s you don’t need higher rates any kind of rate hike to get to that though? We – like I said we have forecasted to have rate increase this year and that is in our discussion and conclusion on improvement from here of our efficiency ratio.
Okay.
Alright thanks David.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Scouten of Sandler O’Neill.
Yes hi.
Thanks guys.
I was wondering if you could give us some more color around your existing SNC portfolio what the overall size of that portfolio is and kind of what concerns you might have coming off that SNC exam? Okay.
If you will I will ask Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer to make a few comments on that and John Turner Head of Corporate Banking Group.
The two of them can provide color on that.
The overall size of our outstanding SNC portfolio is roughly in the $16 billion range.
But as it relates to the results of the SNC exam so that cannot be disclosed that is confidential supervisory information.
So I would not say much more about that.
But we are comfortable with the book in terms of the credit quality that we see in that book.
It’s very well rated.
I will turn it over to John Turner to make a few more comments.
Yes.
Just in general terms the SNC book represents a little less than 45% of our total commitments within corporate banking group.
We do think it’s an important part of our business.
It’s a business that we have grown some clearly over the last two or three years.
And it’s a business we think that will provide us significant revenue opportunities.
As we talk about shifting the mix of revenue within the company one of our key focuses is to grow our corporate banking to grow our capabilities to serve those customers that we are now interacting with in a more significant level as part of the Shared National Credit portfolio.
So we view it as being very strategic and giving us an opportunity to grow significant relationships with customers who can drive NRR.
Okay.
And then maybe one other question here just in regards to other opportunities for capital deployment what are you guys thinking about from an M&amp;A perspective at this point in time? Are there any increased conversations or increased desire on you all’s part to get something done in that regard especially given BB&amp;T the approval of their Susquehanna deal? Does that give you any greater level of confidence or move up the timeline for potential M&amp;A for you guys? Well I think the first and foremost we are focused on organic growth.
We are focused on executing our business strategies and trying to build a better bank and have a better team.
We are closely monitoring all M&amp;A activity.
We are preparing ourselves in the eventuality that opportunities present themselves.
We think that some of the activities in the M&amp;A spaces of late have been constructive.
We think that’s helpful as we sort of prepare our long-term strategies.
That being said at this juncture our efforts are predominantly around preparation if opportunities present themselves but our primary focus is growing organically.
Okay thanks guys.
I appreciate taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim Securities.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Eric.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple of questions on credit quality you were very clear on the dynamics about what led to this quarter’s provision.
But as I look at the relationship of the reserve to loans it seems to be stabilizing at around the 1.4% level whereas some peers have continued to take it down closer to 1.25%.
And I am just wondering what you sort of view as adequate going forward if there isn’t any incremental migration in the SNC portfolio? So it’s David.
We don’t have any particular percentage that we aim for.
We let the model run.
There is obviously some judgment at the end of the day but a lot of it is model-driven.
When you have 23 basis points worth of charge-offs and that can continue – if that continues over time you should see a migration down to some point.
I will tell you the loan growth we have had have been larger commercial credits.
We tried to give you some color on the volatility that you can expect when you have larger credits and one of them trends negatively.
We have – we feel good about the reserve.
We feel good about our overall credit quality and trends and our non-performer is coming down.
And – but we also have loan growth that we have to provide for.
When you mix all that together if we can continue to see a reduction in non-performers and a reduction in charge-offs you would expect the coverage to come down but we need to see that on a quarter-by-quarter basis and let our model run.
No it’s got to be – we are committed to a very data-driven process and we are letting the data drive that number.
We are – as David said we are not targeting a particular ratio.
But instead we are targeting a process where we evaluate the credit quality of our portfolio and let the data drive that decision.
However I don’t think it will go back to the old days of the goal of 1%.
There will be a new floor established at some point but it will not go back we don’t believe to those pre-recession levels.
Great thanks.
That’s very clear.
And just one quick follow-up obviously an outstanding quarter on the brokerage and investment banking line item how do you suggest we think about sort of the sustainable run-rate of revenues in those business lines going forward? Well there is really – I think in a lot of ways it’s very important quarter for us.
We really saw growth across – more broadly across our markets and more broadly across products.
We have been making a number of investments in parts of our business that grow non-interest revenue.
We have really started to see the traction that those businesses are able to gain in this market.
We believe that their contributions will continue to increase.
And when you look at the growth across the company it’s very encouraging just starting to be reflected into the numbers but very promising as we look forward.
And David do you want to chime in a little more over? Yes we were encouraged with – as Grayson mentioned we have made investments in people.
We got our first M&amp;A transaction.
We are looking at growing that space.
We have made an investment in the Fannie Mae DUS license not quite a year ago.
That’s paying off for us.
So these investments that we have made we feel good about the continued improvement.
There was nothing in revenue that causes us to believe there was a one-time issue there in terms of favorability that won’t repeat.
We are looking to continue to grow that.
The pace of which depends on the businesses that we can execute.
So we are very encouraged by that in our NRR growth and how broad it was.
Great thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O’Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
Can you guys provide the premium amortization within the bond book this quarter and maybe how that compares to previous periods? So we are at $41 million this past quarter Matt.
It was about $2 million different than previous quarter.
$2 million lower I would assume? That’s right.
Okay.
And then just I mean looking forward does that drop more significantly if the backup in rates holds here? I think we are showing a relatively stable kind of a moderation of that premium amortization from here.
Okay.
And just I mean in terms of why that would be is it just – there are some banks out there where it’s really sensitive quarter-to-quarter and I think yours incorporates both the rate outlook and the actual prepayment.
So is it just a little bit of a smoother impact than maybe some other banks? Yes I think others can have a different method of amortization.
Ours are fairly – should be fairly resilient like I said from here.
We used to have our premium amortization was a much bigger impact to us but our total premiums that exist in the book is down.
We also have more 15-year product so it’s a little less impactful to us than perhaps some others.
Okay.
And then just separately the deposit service charges obviously nice bounce linked quarter there probably on seasonality but as you think about you implementing some of the changes you have talked about I think it’s the high to low and some other just provide an update of that the magnitude and the timing and if there has been any change versus what you thought maybe six months ago? So our service charge – that was seasonality that you saw if you compare it year-over-year the main difference between the prior year had already advanced product in there that you know we are out of that product now.
We have continued to investigate changing of our posting order.
We still are committed to that effect on us.
When we implement being the $10 million to $15 million range we expect to implement that towards the latter part of the year so we haven’t changed our timing from our last call.
But you should see that go in the latter part of this year.
So there will be some impact in ‘15.
Additionally Matt we have seen steady growth in consumer checking accounts since the first of the year.
And so as we continue to grow accounts and that gives us an opportunity to continue to grow that line item so pretty encouraging news in that regard.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Good morning Sameer.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just on the last question you got the follow-up on that to clarify I think that you have switched or switching to a chronological format for posting order is that right or are you doing high to low I thought – I just want to clarify that? Chronological.
Okay.
And to the extent possible I think chronological in the purest sense is not possible but chronological to the degree the transactions allow us to do that.
Yes – no I understand.
There seems to be a lot of complexity and lack of clarity around exactly what the final rules will be.
But just to kind of further flesh that out I was curious as to your adoption of the chronological order because in talking to other banks it seems like many of them have not yet done anything.
They are waiting for the final rules to come out.
And if and when the final – when the final rules come out if they are different from what you kind of implemented then would you need to change that again so I am just trying to get a sense for the thought process there and kind of going ahead with the chronological process – the chronological order? Yes.
Sameer I mean as we think through it we are absolutely focused on trying to serve our customers in the way that we believe to be appropriate and we think there is a growing perception on the part of customers that some type of chronological based posting is a more appropriate way to go.
We are in close communication with the regulatory authorities about faults on process faults on posting and we appreciate that that may change on us.
We believe we are building the process that we are almost all of our transactions will be time order posted.
That being said because of the complexity of posting you never quite get the perfection.
But we believe this is the right thing to do and so we are pressing ahead with it.
As David said right now our project plans would have us completing that this year.
And so we are on schedule to do that.
And if changes occur in subsequent quarters we will make changes as they are deemed necessary and appropriate.
But I think we waited long enough and we feel like that it’s the right time from a purely from a customer standpoint that we need to do this.
It’s got – obviously any change can have a mixed reaction on the part of the customers and we just want to be careful that our customers – we communicate well and we are transparent and we do this not only to do the right thing but do it the right way and so we are trying to do that.
Okay.
And then just a quick one if I may I know you did talk about the home equity loans growing for the first time in a long time I don’t know if you had mentioned what the reason for that is and if you could give us a sense for what those proceeds are used – being used for are they being used up to pay down consumer credit cards or something else that would be helpful? Thank you.
Well I mean – we have been – we a few years ago we were predominantly an equity line of credit is the product that we went to market with.
I think that as you saw quite a while back we introduced amortizing home equity loan that has proved very attractive to our customer base.
What we have seen is in this quarter when you consolidate the net of home equity lines and home equity loans you are seeing customers did – you are seeing that pivot point where on that basis for the first time in 6 years we have started to grow that portfolio that’s the combination of the runoff of the equity line portfolio has slowed and the increase in the home equity loan has increased substantially to accommodate that.
I would say anecdotally most of the home equity loans we are making are for sort of a smaller dollar home refinance.
Also home repairs and to a less degree and last on that list would be debt consolidation.
Strong FICO score probably averaging close to 7 7.78 LTV around 60% so good product going on and I think serving our customers well.
That’s great.
Thanks Grayson.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
I just had one follow-up question on credit.
Barb it looks like the way I am reading the charge-off breakdown in C&amp;I this quarter and in owner occupied CRE last quarter the single basis point loss rate implies to me that there could be recoveries in those two categories.
And I guess the question here as we think about provisioning and reserving going forward is it 23 basis points to 28 basis points charge-off range that we saw in the past two quarters sustainable or given potentially outsized recoveries should we look to the range prior to those two quarters of between 35 basis points to 40 basis points? Yes.
Erika recoveries actually do play a role in what we saw this past quarter but it also played a role in prior quarters.
The one thing I would caution on it I think recoveries is a lot of the loans that we charged off those are recoveries that we have already received as our charge-offs have come down and this was an opportunity for recoveries going forward.
The 23 points of loss that we are pretty pleased about this quarter is great but we do believe again that that’s probably close to the bottom of where we are going to be.
We might get another point to two out of it.
But again we will probably move somewhere between that 25 basis points to 35 basis point range as we think forward.
And as my – the second question to that is how long do you think from a credit standpoint we could stay in that 25 basis points to 35 basis point range and I guess a better way to ask that is do you see anything near-term that could move you outside of that band? Yes.
The only thing I could see near-term at all is something that we can’t see.
What – from everything that we see that’s in front of us we feel comfortable that we will stay in that band.
But again you never know if you have some other factors that happens in the economy that will create an issue for us and we will disclose at that time.
Got it that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Good morning Ken.
Thanks.
Good morning Grayson.
I was wondering if I guess a question on expenses in an absolute sense.
So David you talked about having a little room in some areas to improve but then you talked about also the kind of normalization of that deposit administrative line so what are the puts and takes about – in future expense growth and how much of that kind of continued investment burden do you still bear from here? Well I wouldn’t categorize investment as a burden.
Some of that is good.
Investments we are making to grow our revenue generators is a good expense.
We will do that all day long and expect a return for those type of investments.
I will tell you though as we think about managing our expense base again we got to look at salaries and benefits.
I can see furniture and fixtures in our outside services so those four categories.
And in that we can tighten up a little bit in terms of some of the investments we have had to make over time to deal with regulatory environment that we are facing in this banking industry things that are related to risk management capital planning and those kinds of things that in compliance and audit.
All those over time will rationalize.
And you should see some opportunities for us there.
Also as you know we have done branch consolidations in the past.
That’s brought down salaries and benefits.
It’s brought down furniture and fixtures.
It’s brought down occupancy expense.
And while we don’t have any current plans for branch consolidations we are continuing to look at our branch footprint as part of our retail network strategy to ensure that channel is optimized that we will make investments where appropriate and we’ll tighten up other areas that – other branches where the revenue generation isn’t strong enough for us.
And then lastly I will tell you we have a number of Six Sigma initiatives underway in our company.
Firstly every department has an obligation to look at how they can become more efficient.
We haven’t had a named expense initiative as you know but internally we have an intense focus on expense management.
And so there is not an expense that is off the radar screen but the areas we will move the meter of those four five areas I mentioned.
And I – sorry go ahead Grayson.
No I just add to what David said I think we are absolutely committed to rigorous expense management across the company.
You can never be as good as you want to be in that regard.
We continue to challenge ourselves internally that are we being good expense managers? In this environment it’s a critical skill.
But we also are more than willing to make prudent investments that allow us to grow prudently.
And so we will continue to do that.
We think those have been smart decisions.
They certainly are paying off.
And to David’s point we will do that every day.
And we have done that in terms of recruiting new bankers on to our team making investments in our current team to allow us to grow more appropriately but prudently.
And so as part of – if you look at if you backup and look at our efficiency ratio and you look at it both expense and revenue side we have done much better on the expense side than we have on the revenue side.
And we are trying to take a very balanced approach to expense management a thoughtful approach that gets us where we want to be.
And to David’s point we are trying to make incremental improvement every quarter to get down to that lower 60% efficiency ratio but it’s going to require work on both sides of that formula.
Yes I understood.
And just as a quick follow-up on that though working on it and is it the type of stuff that I know you don’t have a program or a number but as you think about the things you can work on is it more just about monitoring the rate of growth or do you think you would have the ability to actually at some point get the expense base back down? Well let me – it’s not to make it more complicated than it is we clearly have been making investments in risk management and we have been making investments in bankers and growth opportunities that we see.
We tried to self fund a great deal of that expense and have process improvement in a number of our back offices.
We have tried to do that process improvement in a lot of our support offices such as legal and in vendor management but we also have tried to rationalize our channels.
And in particular the branch channel has been we think pretty aggressive in rationalizing channels and trying to make them as efficient as we can without reducing our effectiveness for the customer.
And so it – while we don’t have a branded program rest assured we got lots of internal programs.
Yes.
And Ken we were down in expenses four years in a row.
We didn’t commit to having expenses in ‘15 lower than ‘14 because we knew we want to make investments in the revenue generators and some are still coming on board so that generated the revenue.
We think that’s the right kind of spend for us.
Can we get down to the expense level that we had in ‘14 at some point? It just depends on the investments we make going forward.
I think the first order of business is to watch the spend so that the rate of growth is the most appropriate rate of growth and then we can look at how efficient can we get over time with the use of things like Six Sigma and so forth.
Understood.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
Good morning Geoffrey.
Good morning.
How are you? Well.
Question on the energy portfolio I was interested to see that was kind of down a couple of percent over the quarter which is lower than the pace of decline that we have seen at some of the other banks.
So I am curious is that a deliberate strategy on your part? Are you trying to pursue more of a stick with the customer keep providing credit strategy than you think some of the other banks might be or do you think that could just be differences in structural portfolios? Geoffrey this is John Turner.
First of all we say we are committed to sticking with our customers on where that makes sense.
And I think as you think about what we are doing today we are approaching our evaluation business on an ongoing basis with a healthy skepticism but staying very close to our customers so that we understand what’s going on their businesses.
When you look at the reduction in commitments primarily occurred in the E&amp;P space where as a result of borrowing base re-determinations we reduced commitments by a little over $320 million or on average about 16%.
We also had a number of our customers access the capital markets.
And in fact over the last seven months I guess they have raised over $7 billion in the capital markets that used those funds to both to add additional liquidity to potentially make investments to reduce their leverage and so that certainly had an impact as well.
And we think our clients are doing all the right things.
And so as a result we have a – we are cautiously confident about the performance of the book.
When I say doing the right things our customers have reacted quickly to market conditions.
They have reduced their expenses reduced their CapEx.
They are raising liquidity and reducing leverage where appropriate.
And as a consequence I think we will continue to see some reduction in the business until the market turns and reinvestment occurs.
And John if you would speak for a minute about customer selectivity and limited number of things in our book? Yes I think just another aspect of the way we think about the risk in the book is as I said this before we have really a small number of larger names we think colossal activity has been one of the hallmarks of our energy book.
These are customers that we have known for a long time.
Most of them at least of any size are very recognizable in the industry.
Management teams are very experienced.
As I mentioned good access to capital markets and liquidity and we think that they are doing all the right things.
We have spent a lot of time internally reviewing the portfolio.
I mentioned that we have a quarterly review process for our oilfield services book.
We have now looked at internally over 91% of our oilfield services exposure within the last four months.
We also have done borrowing base re-determinations on all but one of our E&amp;P relationship so 98% plus or minus of that book.
And then our energy portfolio has been subject to a number of external reviews including the SNC exam where we think 67% of our total energy book was reviewed as part of the SNC exam.
That’s about 89% of the E&amp;P portfolio and over 55% – or about 55% of oilfield services.
So a lot of eyes on our energy portfolio and we think a lot of transparency given the fact that there are smaller number of larger exposures which is a good thing.
On the downside there is some single name risk associated with deterioration.
But all-in-all I think we feel like we have a pretty good handle on the exposure in the energy portfolio.
And to follow-up the increase in the right exposure what happened there over the quarter? We had some reclassifications as we can’t continue to look for indirect exposures that are in some way impacted by the energy business.
So as an example we pulled in some of our investor real estate portfolio where we have income-producing properties that are leased to third parties which happen to be in the energy space.
And so as we capture that as an indirect exposure that had an impact on outstandings as example.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo.
Matt good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
David maybe a question for you you mentioned branch reduction.
And obviously that’s been a positive story for you all down about 3% year-over-year with them somewhat more positive momentum in the last couple of quarters but also looking at the transaction services only line that’s been pretty stable I guess I am curious how you all are thinking about the product delivery capability over the next couple of years as you think about rationalizing branches full service branches should we begin to see the full service branches continue to come down but at the same time the transaction services presumably smaller less costly branches rise? Well you asked the question to David but if you don’t mind I will answer it.
I think it is we have said about a number of our businesses around the company we tend to be very data driven.
And we think it’s important to make sure we understand the data and what’s going on in all of our channels.
And branches in particular we are doing a lot from an experimentation and an innovation perspective with new branch formats less people more technology.
We also are experimenting with a number of innovative designs around drive-throughs and our capabilities of our ATMs and all sat locations.
All are being said we still – when you look at the markets we operate in and the customers that we serve and we serve almost 4 million customers across 16 states they all have different needs.
And when you look at our customer base still 59% of our customers will visit one of our branches in the next 30 days.
So we still have a lot of customer traffic.
In fact we got a lot of branches that are operating at over capacity levels.
And so we’ve introduced a number of digital capabilities.
Deposit – smartphone deposit capture remote deposit capture for our small business and corporate customers.
We tried to use innovation to try to take more transactions out of our branches that allows us to be more efficient but also dedicate more resource to sales and service.
And so we have been introducing technology into our ATMs.
Roughly 75% of our ATMs today have the ability to take a deposit through image technology.
If you look at how efficient we have got almost 21% of the deposits are company – are coming through the digital channel as opposed to coming through one of our branch offices.
So making good progress but we are letting the data drive the number.
So when we see a bench that is – that transaction volumes and customer accounts in a particular branch is – drives that decision so that we don’t do that anecdotally but we do it with a lot of data and data analytics.
And so we will continue to do that.
I do think customers are showing a preference for additional channels but it varies per market.
And a lot of our markets are still very very branch dependent and so we pay attention to that.
Okay that’s helpful color.
And David maybe I can direct this one to you specifically on the earning assets you saw about an $860 million decline 29% decline in other interest earning assets which I presume is mostly cash at the Fed how does that number trend in your current outlook for margin through the rest of the year? Yes.
You are exactly right so we put the excess cash to work so that pushed in terms of the loan growth.
We should see some growth in earning assets that will come with deposit growth picking up.
And now the question is where will that be deployed in the securities book cash at the Fed or in loan growth and we feel good about our loan growth gave you a little bit of good guidance in terms of what we thought we will do skewing towards the upper end of our previously announced range.
So we expect that to pick up slightly.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Good morning Gerard.
Good morning.
Thank you.
A couple of questions one could you guys just go over the Shared National Credit outstandings I didn’t hear it clearly and I think the transcript may have gotten a number of incorrect…? Barb could you speak to that.
Yes I will speak to it.
In fact it’s $18 billion roughly in outstandings that we have for the Shared National Credit.
Okay.
And because the transcript I think said 50 is – I assume the transcript is incorrect then.
You’re correct.
Okay thank you for clarifying that.
Coming back to your loan portfolio at one point you guys were de-risking the portfolio by allowing the commercial real estate balances to come down.
And I believe that ended some time ago but there is still shrinking.
And maybe can you give us some color what’s going on in the commercial real estate investor as well as on owner-occupied commercial estate mortgage portfolios? Yes.
This is John Turner.
First let me start with owner-occupied real estate.
We are continuing to see that book run off a bit.
I don’t think that’s much reflective of the fact that we are just not seeing middle market sort of lower end to middle market in our business banking small business customers invest in expanding their businesses.
So the volume of activity that we see is down.
That portfolio amortizes every month and so we are continuing to see some run off although the run off is slowing a bit and we expect that to trend to actually turn in the future.
As it relates to investor real estate we did de-risk the book.
We have remade our business model built it around professional real estate bankers working closely with real estate developers again real focused on client selectivity.
It’s a business we want to grow but it’s heavily construction-oriented today and we would like to see a shift more to have a better balance between construction and term lending.
We are very committed to managing that book in a very disciplined and thoughtful way applying our concentration limit methodology to make sure that we don’t have too much exposure to any product type or any particular market diversity is really important to us as we think about managing that business going forward.
So I think you can expect to see it grow sort of as the economy grows would be our plan kind of the 2% to 4% range but not much faster than that as we seek to manage that risk prudently and shift again the mix from construction to more term...
And then just as a follow-up Grayson you gave us some good color on the branches and your digital channel and the activity you are getting through the digital channel.
And it’s certainly a topic of debate in the industry today about the retail branch model.
I – with your 1 500 or so branches can you guys give us some color on the profitability how many of those are meeting your return on equity or internal rate of return hurdles how many are not profitable so give us a flavor? Yes.
We would certainly – we calculate that data.
We calculate that data on a real frequent basis.
And we got different hurdles that we try to monitor to make sure each of our offices are meeting our hurdles.
And where we are at today is roughly 98% 99% of our branch offices are providing a positive direct contribution to our earnings.
That being said do they all hurdle over internal rate of return requirements for branches are we have to look at each individual branch and see whether that branch is predominantly servicing transactions or are they going accounts are they growing balances both deposits and loans.
Then we take all that into consideration.
And we take into consideration the markets they operate in before we make that consolidation decision.
Quite frankly we are seeing tremendous growth in digital channels but the growth in digital channels is faster than the reduction of activity in our branches.
A lot of digital activity is new activity.
It’s additional activity.
But we are seeing patterns in our branches change and we make movements take decisions based off those behavioral changes.
But I will go back to my earlier comment when it comes to the branch our decision can’t be anecdotal.
It has to be based off the absolute numerics of that branch and it has to be in the best interest of the community that we operate in.
Our engagement in our communities and our commitment to the communities we operate in is very very important to us and so all of that has to be considered when we look at branches.
Gerard I’ll add to that.
One thing we have consolidated little over 20% of our branch count since the crisis.
We stay focused on it.
And one of the things we need to – we have to think through is even those that don’t give us the return we would like is we have to look at what the next alternative is if we don’t have that branch.
Because anytime we consolidate a branch we lose revenue.
Now the goal is to lose more expense from the revenue that we just lost and that’s why you have seen the consolidation to be in a very measured pace.
We will continue to look at that.
And while we don’t have any identified as of right now you should expect us to continue to rationalize our whole retail footprint over time.
But I think an important point to make is that today we are seeing a higher level of sales growth in our physical points of presence.
In fact our branches – our sales in the second quarter – new account sales in the second quarter is the highest we have seen in four years so very good performance out of branches this quarter.
Grayson and David thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja of JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
A couple of questions.
Firstly Barb on your Shared National Credits of $18 billion how much are you the lead on? We are the lead on – I don’t have the dollars at my fingertips but it is roughly 100 credits.
100 credits.
Out of a book of approximately 1 300.
Okay okay great.
And then secondly maybe just for Grayson and David let me turn back to the efficiency ratio question when I look at your efficiency ratio calculation I add back the deposit administrative fee refund that you got.
Your core efficiency ratio is essentially flat with last quarter at roughly 65% which is up almost 180 basis points from a year ago.
And I know you are talking about it coming down into the low 60s.
How much of that decline given that there is a lot of expense pressure which you have touched on an investment that you are doing.
So how much of the decline that you are expecting are you factoring in from Fed rate hike benefit? I mean going from 65 to low 60s David or Grayson how much do you expect to come from there? Yes we don’t have it broken out in terms of just related to the rate hike.
What I will tell you is that the main driver of our efficiency ratio is growing our revenue appropriately.
We do have the expense measures that we are looking at in that revenue growth is expecting those investments that we have made thus far to continue to generate the revenue growth and we are seeing that.
We saw that this quarter with 7% NIR growth but we have people we hired just an example our financial consultants were up to 200.
We’ve just got our 200th one I think this week but it takes time for those new folks to generate the revenue that we expect.
It’s about eight or nine months.
So we carry the expense load until the revenue comes.
And so part of our getting into that lower 60s is rate part of it is continued execution from the people that are here.
And then from the expense side as I mentioned earlier in the call continuing to look at the support groups whether it be again finance HR risk management credit teams all that infrastructure that we look at we continue to work to rationalize that to use technology to help us deliver our products and services cheaper to our customer base.
So all of that has to work together to get our efficiency ratio down into the lower 60s.
We really want to get to the higher 50s.
That does take a rate hike to get where we are in a normal rate environment.
So that will take some time to get there.
Okay thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of David Eads of UBS.
Good morning Dave.
Hello.
Thanks for taking the call.
Just I guess a couple of questions on the loan growth maybe on indirect auto we have seen some talk about the CFPB and dealer markups on those loans.
I am curious what you guys do when it comes to dealer discretion on pricing? And then I guess more broadly what you think that those moves could mean for competition across the industry? Well we have seen obviously a change in some of our competitors in terms of dealer markups.
Today we give 200 basis points discretion which is a little lower than the average peer.
The average peer has been to 300.
They lowered down to 250.
So we are a little lower than peers.
We have seen some go to flats.
The industry really is looking along with the captives which have just come into the fold for the CFPB to really give the – those of us that operate with the rules of the game are.
And what I will tell you is we will adapt and overcome.
We just want to know what they are.
We will figure out how to make money in whatever environment it is.
So right now I think there is a measured pace as to whether or not we go to flats or whether or not we go from 200 to 100 or some other basis.
But I think that if you looked at our business half of it only has 100 basis points of discretion in it.
So we are positioned well to adapt to whatever the rules are.
We just need some finalization to come from the regulatory side.
And I will just add to what David said.
We have done a number of things strategically to try to position ourselves better for what David has outlined as an industry that’s under change.
And we are trying to measure that change interpret that change.
So we have done some experimentation and some innovation around pricing.
We have experimented with substantially reduced markups.
We have experimented with something much lower than our standard.
We have worked with our dealers and strategically we have reduced the number of dealers we do business with to make sure that we have got large dealer groups that we have got confidence in the way they run the risk management part of their business.
And we will continue to make changes as the market changes.
Today though the commercial banks are only about a third of that marketplace and so commercial banks are responding to it it’s still been a good market for us but been very selective in who we do business with and what kind of business we will place on the books.
Great.
That’s some good color.
And then I think you guys broke out this other consumer indirect category this quarter.
And I am just kind of curious you talked about that being partnerships with primarily home improvement retailers is that kind of going to have the characteristics of a home equity loan or a card loan and kind of what you are looking to do with that business? At its core it’s basically indirect lending through point of sale.
And we have partnered with people who provide the front-end origination of those loans at retailers.
And so we – it’s just an alternative source.
As you see there is a lot of change in the consumer lending space a lot of digital offerings in the market but there is also a lot of offerings that are taking place at point of purchase if you will and home improvement is a big issue for a lot of our customers and what they want to get that financing when they walk into the home improvement store.
And so we have partnered to try to capture some of that.
And so we are trying to be innovative in consumer lending and this is just an example where we have had some good progress in that regard.
Great thanks.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today’s conference.
I will now turn the floor back over for closing remarks.
Well listen thank you for your questions.
We very much appreciate your questions appreciate your participation your interest in Regions.
And we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's quarterly earnings call.
My name is Paula and I'll be your operator for today's call.
I would like to remind everyone that all participant phone lines have been placed on listen only.
At the end of the call there will be a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in our call today.
Our presenters are Grayson Hall our Chief Executive Officer; David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of management are present and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of regions.com.
Finally let me remind you that in this call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking disclaimer that is located in the appendix section of the presentation.
With that I'll turn it over to Grayson.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you List and good morning everyone.
We're pleased you could join us for our call today.
For the third quarter we reported earnings from continuing operations of $246 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
These results reflect total adjusted revenue growth despite an operating environment that remains challenging.
In the third quarter we continued to deliver growth in categories that we believe are fundamental to future income growth.
Our fundamentals are strong with growth in households accounts loans and deposits.
In fact one of the most important categories is checking accounts which we've grown by more than 2% year-to-date.
We remain focused on expanding and deepening relationships through our need-based approach to relationship banking.
Total net interest income increased 2% from the second quarter representing the highest quarterly increase in approximately two years.
For the same period total loans increased 1% on an ending basis and were up 2% on average basis contributing to the increase in net interest income.
Business lending had a good quarter driven by real estate and corporate banking groups.
Within real estate REIT business growth was strong.
The growth within corporate banking reflects the strength of our business model as local bankers collaborate with industry and product specialists to grow loans.
In the third quarter all specialized industries experienced growth led by power utilities technology and defense restaurant and healthcare.
Consumer lending had another strong quarter reaching $30 billion in total outstandings on an ending basis with growth in every loan category.
Our new point of sale initiative led this growth as consumers took advantage of the convenience of this product offering.
Additionally indirect vehicle lending continues to be strong supported by robust auto sales during the summer.
Total noninterest revenue in the third quarter declined compared to a strong second quarter.
The majority of the decline was attributable to a lower benefit from mortgage servicing rights and related hedges.
Despite this decline we have continued to experience good momentum in several areas including capital markets and wealth management as our prior investments continue to produce results.
Wealth management income was strong this quarter up 13% over prior year.
We remain focused on our strategy to grow wealth management by continuing to recruit retain and develop talent required to meet the diverse needs of our clients.
We will continue to look for insurance acquisitions and lift-outs similar to our recent addition in Georgia.
Clearly this operating environment continues to be challenging as we have continued to face lower interest rates for an extended period of time.
Furthermore we expect the pace of increases in interest rates to be slow and measured.
Given this backdrop it's essential that we take more aggressive action as it relates to expense management.
We've instituted a number of initiatives and are carefully evaluating a number of other actions that we will provide more details at our Investor Day on November 19.
Credit quality was relatively stable during the quarter with some weakening in the energy portfolio.
As expected there's been some downward migration risk ratings inside this portfolio.
These shifts could continue if oil prices remain at current levels.
Overall we believe our energy customers are taking appropriate actions by reducing costs and making other infrastructure adjustments to create liquidity preserve our capital and reduce debt to mitigate vulnerabilities to this environment.
As a result we expect any future losses related to this portfolio to be manageable.
We have remained focused on our strategic initiatives for 2015 and have made progress diversifying growing total revenue by continuing to effectively deploy capital.
We remain committed to generating positive operating leverage over time and in the near term will rigorously seek operating efficiencies.
With that I'll now turn it over to David who'll cover the details for the third quarter.
David.
Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</strong> Thank you and good morning everyone.
I'll take you through the third quarter details and then wrap up with our expectations for the remainder of 2015.
Loan balances totaled $81 billion at the end of the third quarter up $914 million or 1% from the previous quarter.
Year-to-date loans have increased $3.8 billion or 5%.
Business services achieved solid growth with balances totaling $51 billion at quarter end an increase of 1%.
Commercial and industrial loans grew $559 million or 2% and commitments also increased 2%.
As previously mentioned real estate corporate banking and all specialized lending areas experienced growth in the third quarter.
Consumer lending had another strong quarter.
Loans in this portfolio totaled $30 billion an increase of 2% over the prior quarter.
Indirect vehicle lending increased 3% while production increased 8%.
And other indirect lending which focuses primarily on home improvement retailers increased $107 million linked quarter or 28%.
Year-to-date loans in this new portfolio have increased $284 million and we plan to continue to grow this business into 2016.
Mortgage loan balances increased $141 million while production declined compared to a seasonally strong second quarter total production remained healthy at $1.4 billion an increase of 11% over the prior year.
Looking at the credit card portfolio balances increased 2% from the previous quarter and our penetration rate into our existing customer base now stands at 17% up almost 200 basis points from the third quarter of last year.
And finally total home equity balances increased $48 million from the previous quarter as new production outpaced portfolio runoff in the third quarter.
Let's take a look at deposits.
Supported by our multi-channel platform average deposit balances increased $66 million and totaled $97 billion at quarter end.
Consumer and wealth deposits represented 75% of total deposits.
Of note our average account balance is smaller and is expected to be less volatile in a rising rate environment.
Deposit costs remained at historically low levels at 11 basis points while total funding costs remained at 25 basis points.
Now let's see how this impacted our results.
Net interest income on a fully taxable basis was $855 million an increase of $16 million or 2% from the previous quarter.
Higher loan balances and balance sheet hedging strategies were the primary drivers behind the linked quarter increase.
In an effort to mitigate impacts from a continued low rate environment we executed hedges involving interest rate derivatives.
These strategies benefited net interest income while only modestly reducing asset sensitivity.
The net interest margin was primarily affected by pressure on asset yields and higher cash balances resulting in a 3 basis point margin decline to 3.13%.
Total noninterest income declined after a particularly strong second quarter driven in part by lower mortgage revenue due to lower benefits from mortgage servicing rights and the related hedges.
However our investments in and commitment to diversifying and growing fee-based revenues yielded positive results in several areas.
Total wealth management income increased 5% linked quarter driven by insurance income and investment services fee income.
Insurance income increased 15% driven in part by the acquisition that Grayson previously mentioned.
And investment services fee income grew 15% as our financial consultants continue to expand and deepen relationships primarily through our Regions360 approach to needs-based selling.
Capital markets income increased $2 million over the previous quarter primarily related to a pickup in loan syndication income.
This reflects our continued investment in people and products in order to grow and diversify revenue.
Card and ATM fees increased 3% as a result of increased credit card usage as well as an increase in active credit cards.
Let's move on to expenses.
Total reported expenses in the third quarter were $895 million an increase of $35 million on an adjusted basis.
This included an increase of $31 million in deposit administrative fees.
In the third quarter we incurred an expense of $23 million related to prior assessments.
Also impacting the linked quarter variance were refunds that we received in the second quarter of $6 million from overpayments.
We expect the future quarterly run rate for this expense item to be in the $22 million to $25 million range.
Salaries and benefits were down 1% linked quarter.
Additional head count related primarily to strategic investments drove an increase in base salaries; however this was offset by reductions in performance-based incentives.
Expenses related to occupancy increased linked quarter due to seasonal increases in utilities.
And additionally furniture and fixtures increased from the previous quarter due to investments in technology and back-office infrastructure which will improve efficiency over the long-term.
This expense item is expected to increase modestly over the next few quarters reflecting these investments.
Outside services declined $2 million from the prior quarter partially related to lower risk management and compliance cost.
Our adjusted efficiency ratio was 66.8% in the quarter; however excluding the additional expenses related to deposit administrative fees the resulting ratio was 65%.
As Grayson previously noted in this operating environment we must do even more to improve our efficiencies and lower operating cost.
To that end we have recently instituted hiring restrictions and continue to rigorously review all discretionary expenditures.
Additionally we have allocated expense challenges and goals by business unit and we will provide more details on these additional steps when we meet with you for Investor Day next month.
Let's move on to asset quality.
Total net charge-offs increased and represented 30 basis points of average loans.
Importantly this increase does not reflect the broad deterioration in credit quality.
Total business services criticized and classified loans increased $304 million or 10% from the prior quarter.
And nonaccrual loans increased 5%.
These increases were driven by some weakening in a small number of larger loans primarily within the energy portfolio.
As it relates to the energy portfolio we remain in close contact with our energy customers.
Rigorous credit servicing activities are ongoing and we have instituted heightened requirements for loan renewals.
As previously stated we anticipate additional migration into non-pass categories but expect any losses in this portfolio to be manageable.
Based on what we know today over the next 12 months to 18 months losses could range in the $30 million to $50 million range; however we have adequate reserves to cover these losses.
The provision for loan losses was $60 million matching net charge-offs and our allowance for loan losses was relatively stable at 1.38% at the end of the third quarter.
Compared to the prior quarter troubled debt restructured loans or TDRs declined 7%.
And at quarter end our loan loss allowance to nonaccrual loans or coverage ratio was 141%.
And given where we are in the credit cycle volatility in certain credit metrics can be expected especially related to larger dollar commercial credits in our portfolio and fluctuating commodity prices.
Let's move on to capital and liquidity.
During the quarter we repurchased $270 million or 26.6 million shares of common stock and declared dividends of $79 million.
Under the Basel III provisions the Tier 1 ratio was estimated at 11.7% and the common equity Tier 1 ratio was estimated at 11%.
On a fully phased-in basis common equity Tier 1 was estimated at 10.7% well above current regulatory minimums.
Our loan and deposit ratio at the end of the quarter was 83% and regarding the liquidity coverage ratio Regions remains well-positioned to be fully compliant with the January 2016 implementation deadline.
Now let me have a brief review of current expectations for the remainder of 2015.
We expect total loan growth to be in the 4% to 6% range on a point-to-point basis and probably end up at the higher end of that range.
Regarding deposits we continue to expect full-year average deposit growth in the 1% to 2% range.
With respect to the margin we expect performance through year end to be marginally better than the full year guidance communicated in early 2015 which call for a decline of 10 basis points to 12 basis points if rates remain persistently low.
However even if rates remain low net interest income is expected to grow moderately.
Finally we expect to continue to benefit from revenue initiatives and we will take steps to prudently manage our expenses.
We remain committed to generating positive operating leverage over time.
With that we thank you for your time and attention this morning and I'll turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We are ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning I would like to ask each caller to please limit yourself to one primary question and one related follow-up question.
I appreciate your cooperation.
Now let's open up the line for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instruction] Your first question comes from Stephen Scouten of Sandler O'Neill.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Steve.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question here.
First one of the things about the energy portfolio and the reserves.
I know you guys don't tend to disclose maybe specific reserves related to the energy portfolio but did you take any incremental provision related to that $30 million to $50 million in potential losses that you could see? Or was that as you said just kind of matching the net charge-offs you had in the quarter? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Stephen thank you that's a good question.
And I'll ask Barb Godin our Chief Credit Officer to make a few comments in that regard.
And then John Turner Head of Corporate Banking to follow that up.
Barb? Thanks very much Grayson.
Yes we actually did take some incremental reserves this quarter on the energy portfolio.
And we currently stand at around 4.7% of that portfolio being reserved.
So we are well reserved given where we feel the losses will be in the next 12 months to 18 months.
Jr.
- Senior Executive Vice President Head-Corporate Banking Group</span></strong> And I would just add we provided some additional detail particularly on the Oil Field Services sector in our release.
I think what you'll see is that we have as we said before a smaller number of customers that comprise our portfolio.
We believe that we've been very prudent in the selection of those clients stay very close to them.
We think they're doing all the right things to react to the crisis that they have faced the declining oil prices.
And so we remain cautiously optimistic about the performance of our book.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Okay thanks I appreciate that.
And yeah definitely I appreciate the additional color there in the slide deck.
And then just as a follow-up as it relates to capital deployment.
Obviously the share buyback was a little bit; it seemed accelerated in the quarter.
I'm assuming just taking advantage of the lower share prices.
Is that something that you guys can continue to do in this current quarter as the share remains maybe lower than it should be in my view? And how much flexibility do you have there? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> This is David.
So we have obviously a capital plan that was not objected to by regulatory supervisors for which we are executing against.
We were able to move up a small portion of that into a different quarter but in order to have any meaningful change in our total buyback we would have to go through a submission to our regulatory supervisors for future – any increases in the buyback over our CCAR request.
Okay.
So the $875 million will remain the same but you could pull that forward kind of like we saw here in the current quarter? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> That's what – we did pull a piece of that forward this past quarter but we can't change the $875 million.
Perfect.
Thank you guys so much.
I appreciate the color.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Ken good morning.
Hi.
Good morning Grayson.
Hey just a quick question just on the outlook for net interest income.
David your comments about less bad than the prior guidance earlier in the year was kind of lost in sequential so just wondering can you help us understand; do we still see kind of the core compression of the NIM from here on an ex-rates basis? And what other drivers do you have to help support that further? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah I think so we will still have a couple basis points of compression expected for the quarter.
We really are speaking more to NII.
We believe that can continue to grow though.
But obviously you're continuing to see the impact partially higher cash balances for us our driver and then this low rate environment grinding down but will put in a couple of basis point pressure from here to the end of the year.
And underneath that it looked like the loan yields have started to flatten out.
Was that just finally getting past the natural rollover or was there any incremental help from swaps or hedging activity that helped as well? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> It's a little bit of both.
So you're seeing low rates work through to some degree but you have to have help from some of the derivatives that we put on as well.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Marty.
Morning.
David I had two questions for you.
One is looking at the investment process that you've been in that kind of forced your expenses to grow faster than your revenues over the last year.
Do you anticipate that you're kind of getting to the inflection point where the return on investments begin to flip that around and you can start to create that operating leverage that you're talking to in your outlook? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> That's a great question Marty.
So I would tell you we've made investments in a lot of areas to execute our strategy which is to diversify our revenue stream into some NIR sources.
In some cases we have further investments to make and in others we're just about finished.
So an example of that would be our financial consultants that we have and wealth management.
We had a goal to hire about 225 of those through September 30.
We have about 219 so we've got a handful more to go in the fourth quarter and we'll be done.
And so what you'll start seeing is the payoff of these investments will start becoming even stronger relative to the investments or the expense that we had earlier.
And so it just depends on which investment we're talking about.
Our goal is to grow our income diversify our revenue stream and to have better returns on capital over time which is why we've needed to make those investments early on.
And they're starting to pay off for us.
They are performing exactly like we expected.
As a matter of fact in some cases they're actually ahead of schedule.
So you've seen expense go up and we've talked about making the investments.
We still believe it's been the right thing for us to do and you'll see the benefit as we get into 2016 and beyond.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But Marty to add to that we obviously have made what we think are very prudent investments and the results we've seen from those investments have been very positive and we continue to see opportunities for that.
That being said given the current rate environment and our rate forecast for what we believe the next few quarters hold we've had become much more rigorous on expense management.
We are trying to self-fund a lot of our investments to make sure that as David said over time we can generate positive operating leverage as a company.
So you will see us be more rigorous around expense management over the next few quarters.
We just think given the rate environment that it's prudent to do that.
That being said we really are trying to create long-term franchise value while being sensitive to quarter-to-quarter earnings pressure.
But we need to make sure that we're thoughtful about how we manage expenses and to make sure that we continue to build franchise value over time.
Thanks.
And then David this won't be a surprise so my next question but you started to step out with hedging and neutralizing some of your asset sensitivity position.
You kind of said net it really didn't affect your pickup when rates go up.
Is that enough? You're still letting cash balances build.
Shouldn't you start thinking about neutralizing that balance sheet over let's say the next 12 months at least more aggressively? And I know you're smiling there listening me to ask that same question I've asked several times before but just wanted to ask you that again.
Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> So Marty we continue to challenge ourselves on the positioning of the balance sheet.
We have been asset-sensitive for an extended period of time.
We believe staying asset-sensitive is the right thing for us as we seek to extract the value out of our competitive advantage which is our deposit base our granular sticky consumer-oriented deposit base.
And to neutralize rate sensitivity in this environment we think is the wrong thing to do.
We did put on some hedges to protect ourselves primarily on a prolonged low rate or declining rate environment but we didn't want to take too much sensitivity off.
So we're still up instantaneous 100 basis points we're still at about $155 million of NII impact down from about $165 million.
So it was a slight change down.
But we believe maintaining that sensitivity is the right thing for Regions given the construct of our deposit franchise and that side of the balance sheet.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Betsy.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
One Barb I just wanted to make sure – you indicated that regarding the energy you feel like you've done the reserving you need to do here today.
And could you just give us a sense of that's at current oil price or the forwards on oil and the kind of timeframe that your price outlook persists? Yeah.
When we go through our process including sizing up what we think the losses might be et cetera we go through looking at a number of models but we also do an account-by-account bottoms-up review.
We do that on a monthly basis staying close to our customers close to their balance sheets et cetera.
And when we look at the price of oil we look at the spot price; we also look at the futures price as well.
So all of that is incorporated into our thought process as to how we determine what the appropriate level of allowance was.
And what kind of discount do you give to spot and futures? Well again we go through the standard.
We start off with the number of barrels of oil that our engineers feel are in the basins we apply our price deck to it – our current price deck base is $46 stressed $36.80 we discount that by the PD9.
So discount it by 9%.
Then we risk adjust all of that again one more time.
We do that at approximately a 10% level and then we do a borrowing base the borrowing base is about 65% of all of that.
So long story short is you'll end up with 53% of what's in the ground is what we'll lend against.
And do you think that there's going to be much in the way of a reduction in supply here based on all of that and what you and others are doing with regard to these redeterminations or do you think supply kind of kicks along as is? Well I know with the borrowing base redeterminations we believe that we'll probably reduce another 15% to 20% which is roughly what we did in the prior quarter as well.
And we do see a lot of supply that's still out there.
Okay.
And then just separately on the outlook for operating leverage what I'm hearing is with the hiring restrictions and we'll see the benefits of the hiring that you've done over the last 12 months to 18 months come through that we should look for operating leverage to improve as we go through the next two three four quarters.
Is that a fair assessment? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> That's right.
We wanted to continue as Grayson mentioned to make investments to grow revenue and we're going to self-fund those.
So we're going to look at all areas of our company to control our expenses with the goal of generating positive operating leverage.
It just takes time to work through.
I think the question came earlier in terms of the investments; it takes time to generate the revenue that pays for the investment we made.
But we are on track and we think you'll see that improvement coming through in 2016.
And then in the past you've talked a little bit about the insurance growth from lift-outs.
I know it's a modest effort relative to the size of the overall company but would that continue in this outlook for slowing down hiring or putting a freeze on hiring? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> No...
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead David.
Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> We've continued to expect to make investments as we mentioned.
So those are not included into the hiring numbers we've talked about the freeze as you mentioned the restrictions.
So you should see us continuing to look for opportunities to grow that insurance business.
Okay.
All right.
I know it's threading the needle between the words just wanted to make sure where it starts and stops with regard to insurance so I appreciate that.
Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As I said earlier we recognize in this environment that the most prudent thing for us to do is to be much more rigorous much more disciplined in managing expenses.
That being said we have to do that in a thoughtful way that doesn't degrade franchise value that actually affords us the opportunity to continue to increase franchise value.
And where there are opportunities such as the insurance lift-outs that provide us a situation that we believe that gives us economic benefit in a relatively short period of time we're still going to seize those opportunities.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from David Eads of UBS.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning David.
Good morning.
Maybe following up on energy just quickly – great color you've given so far.
Just curious particularly on the Oil Field Services side if you can give any color on how you guys think about loss frequency and severity in that book.
Yeah this is Barb Godin again.
You know Oil Field Services in total is about $1.2 billion.
24% of that book is close to the well head.
But what you need to know about that book is 66 customers make up 98% of that book.
So we're very close to them.
As I look at that overall book what the largest piece of that book is is marine and we have just under $500 million $494 million in marine but 23 obligors.
So again not very granular.
But 70% of what we do in marine is deep water marine.
So only 30% is on the Gulf of Mexico shelf.
So again looking at that book we feel pretty good about the marine piece of that book.
Quite frankly all of the other pieces are quite manageable.
The one that I would worry about the most would be the fluid piece and we have eight obligors in fluid and we have $99 million in outstandings for fluid.
So again we're paying them a lot of love and attention these days.
Thanks for that.
And then kind of on the loan growth side obviously another quarter where almost everything is looking good the main exception there being a continued runoff in the unoccupied commercial real estate portfolio.
Are you any closer to kind of knowing when we might get an inflection point in that portfolio? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's a great question and it's one we challenge ourselves with frequently.
As David had said earlier one of our primary goals is to try to not only grow revenue but to diversify our revenue streams.
And if you look at what's different this quarter versus last quarter certainly versus a quarter a year ago we've really gotten greater diversity and gotten greater growth more broadly across the different lending segments.
And as you pointed out the one segment that we did not get growth in have not hit an inflection point on has been in owner-occupied real estate which has predominantly been our small to medium size businesses that we provide banking product to.
And in that small business community we have seen this year an improvement in production.
What we've not seen is enough production to offset the normal amortization of that portfolio.
And it's predominantly an amortizing portfolio.
There's some line usage in that group but mostly it's amortizing.
We continue to look for that inflection point.
We don't think it's too far down the road.
But it's – that one product segment has been the one that we've been most challenged to reach that inflection point on.
But good production numbers and I think the confidence of that segment is improving.
But that small business sector has been sort of the last to recover from a confidence perspective.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's been a great deposit sector though.
We really have been growing deposits in that group.
So we're encouraged but still not at that inflection point yet.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Guys I do want to commend you on the energy side.
I do like it.
I just had a question about your – how do you define indirect exposure and in that sense I get a lot of people – feedback I get from clients is I'm not really worried about the direct exposure I'm worried about the indirect exposure i.e.
small businesses in these communities that are mainly oil-driven.
Are you seeing any real deterioration in any of these communities I guess in the Gulf or where you do business? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll start and then I'll let Barb Godin speak just a second on that.
We've really tried to take a broad view of what the implications of the drop in the commodity prices and the energy sector have been.
And I think that some segments of that energy portfolio are fairly easy to define.
When you get down to the indirect piece there's some subjectivity and objectivity that's required to define those.
And I would tell you that we've seen in certain cases some softness in some of those indirect segments.
Overall in some of our markets we operate in New Orleans Baton Rouge Houston there's a lot of activities that's offsetting the softness in this activity from a community perspective but some individual companies absolutely you see do see some softness.
Barb? Yes thank you Grayson.
We would define indirect as those types of companies as an example transportation that majority of their business is done to support something going on in the energy sector.
So we capture all of that that's incremental almost $500 million that we talk about.
Relative to the other contagion effects that we would look at i.e.
consumer small business commercial real estate et cetera we look at all that.
Consumer side is a positive it's a net positive they're enjoying the low gas prices it's helping them a lot we're seeing that pickup as an example in our restaurant business that we have a specialty in.
We're seeing better results there.
Relative to some of the other areas as we think about Texas the only area of any heightened attention is the Houston market the office sector.
We're looking at that.
It's still doing well but we're keeping an eye on that.
And New Orleans of course has suffered a little bit from softening demand as well.
And that is pushing their vacancy rates up.
Overall retail and all of those sectors have done well a lot of the Gulf of Mexico and Houston as well.
But we don't want to be a Pollyanna.
We absolutely want to keep our heads up and keep attuned to making sure that if we do see some softness that we react quickly.
And as a follow-up have you seen – have you got any feedback from the Fed with rates staying low on any guidance on your capital management? Or is your capital management good to go for the year until the next CCAR? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah I think – so we can't discuss anything with our regulatory supervisors.
But suffice it to say that all capital planning that we have built into this year's expectations have been via the non-objection we received in our CCAR.
So if we wanted to do something outside of that it would require some form of off-cycle request to our regulatory supervisors.
Okay guys thank you very much.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning John.
Morning.
Just a question regarding the loss range of $30 million to $50 million on energy that you put out there.
Can you give us a little bit of color on how you arrived at that? Did you look at the past cycles and what basis do you have behind the numbers on the calc? John this is Barb Godin again.
Again we use both quantitative as well as qualitative.
The quantitative being yes we look at models that we run.
It includes historical information as well as current information of what we think will happen in the future.
But again we supplant a lot of that with an ongoing monthly looking at every file every customer looking at what their balance sheets look like looking at what their cash flows look like.
So that as we talk about our estimate of losses we talk about – I can't talk about through the cycle I don't know when the cycle will end we use the 12 month to 18 month horizon to say we have pretty good visibility for that period of time.
So again pretty comfortable with the number we put out there.
Now Barb is that 12 months to 18 months from now or for the cycle? Yes.
Okay.
So now do you have any way of identifying what that implies in terms of the accum loss assumption that you're now incorporating? No I wouldn't go that far.
Okay.
All right.
And then separately David just on the interest rate side on the swaps.
I'm not sure if you've disclosed but did you indicate how much in swaps you added? And then also can you give us just your thinking in terms of the willingness to add incremental swaps here or is this it? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah so we will be disclosing our swaps in the Q.
We put about $3 billion of received fixed swaps.
They're a little longer dated.
We had some short-term that we took off so we were up about $1 billion net on notional.
John as we think about interest rate risk positioning it kind of gets back to Marty's question.
We challenge ourselves every day on where we need to have this.
We think taking that sensitivity away and foregoing that nice lift and nice benefit we think we'll get when rates rise would be the wrong long-term answer for our shareholders.
So we'll pay the freight today for the benefit that we'll get tomorrow and we'll manage our profitability the way we've done.
So we've put some incremental swaps on.
We don't have any current plans to execute further swaps but if conditions change then we could change our mind as well.
Okay.
And if I could just ask one more.
You may punt me to your Investor Day for the answer for this one but I know you've been investing in a lot of your fee-based businesses that tend to be higher efficiency ratio businesses like wealth management and cap markets but less capital-intensive and accordingly higher ROE.
So can you give us just a – how do you think about that how it could all come out in the wash in terms of the ultimate benefit to your ROE from these investments? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah that's a very good question.
We challenge ourselves on that.
You've nailed exactly the math there.
We have to look at all of our businesses working together and the synergistic effect they can have on our total business and the diversification and how we might react in a stressed environment versus a normal environment.
All those come into play as we think about the investments we want to make in businesses.
We well understand that the investments in some of these businesses are less efficient.
That's part of where our efficiency ratio is today but they take a very little amount of capital as well so the return on capital is pretty strong.
And they have a tendency to be annuity-based so that you can count on them year in and year out so that's worth something.
You will see – so I'll half punt to Investor Day you'll see how all this comes together in terms of our outlook over the next three-year period with the investments that we have made and plan to make.
And how we're going to self-fund these investments as Grayson mentioned from an expense standpoint so that we can improve our bottom line over time so that we can become more efficient over time as well.
So that we can – our business model can address whatever interest rate environment might be out there we're going to put together a plan that shows you how we win in all those scenarios.
All right.
Thank you David.
Your next question comes from Erika Najarian from Bank of America.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Erika.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up question on the previous question on efficiency.
If I take your adjusted efficiency ratio of 65% and I put together everything that you've said so far.
So modest NII growth even if rates stay low because loan growth has been solid.
You know fee income starting to benefit from some of the investments that you've made but naturally a more higher efficiency ratio business in terms of wealth management capital markets and self-funding some of the investments I guess over the next 12 months how much improvement can you generate on that 65% assuming no increase in rates from the expense side? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah.
Well let me talk about it in terms of all of our businesses coming together and this will be a discussion we'll have at Investor Day but as you know we've sought to be in the lower 60%s.
We believe we can get there based on all the things we've talked to you about this morning.
We'll get more granular on how if you'll come to Investor Day.
But our long-term goal with rates increasing was still in those higher 50%s that we've talked about previously.
But we're building the business model and if we don't get the rate increase how do we continue to improve bottom line how do we continue to become more efficient that is get below 65 and trend towards the lower 60%s without rates increasing? So we believe we can do that we're going to show you more specifically how we'll do that on November the 19th.
Got it.
And just maybe as we think about the next quarter David is the correct base for adjusted expenses as we think about a fourth quarter $872 million to $875 million? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> That is the basis on what you should extrapolate anything in the fourth quarter yes.
Okay thank you so much.
Your next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Matt.
Good morning Grayson.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for taking my question.
First of all David maybe a question for you.
It looked like your long-term borrowings were up roughly two times quarter-over-quarter.
I didn't – if I look at some industry sources it didn't look like you had issued quite that much debt.
Could you give us a little sense as to what's going on there? And also in terms of any preferred issuance that you might think about going forward to fill up that regulatory bucket? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Sure.
So we did increase our long-term debt.
We did have the debt issuance during the quarter.
It was about $750 million I think your – that you've seen.
We did take out some short-term FHLB debt in place of long-term FHLB debt.
Part of that was to fund loan growth.
Part of that's sitting in cash as well as we think about LCR.
But that was really the big – the biggest driver.
And the second part of the question...? In terms of any possible preferred issuance going forward? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> So we do acknowledge we probably need a little more non-common Tier 1.
And to issue it right now without a good place to put the proceeds though is really cost-prohibitive.
The carry on that is something we want to avoid.
If we can kind of work that through our optimization of our capital stack over time I think would be the better play for us as we trade out a more expensive common instrument for a less expensive preferred issuance and get our delta delta between common equity Tier 1 and our Tier 1 to be a little better than we have today.
So you'll see that in time.
Sure.
Makes sense.
Barb my follow-up's directed towards you I mean if I take I guess an admittedly conservative view of the $30 million to $50 million range that you've talked about over the next 12 months that's roughly a 1.5% loss rate on your overall energy exposure.
How does that compare perhaps with the 12 month to 18 month loss rate that you may have had on an energy portfolio back in the 2008-2009 timeframe when energy prices were down about 70%? Yeah we look back on that timeframe and we had very few losses.
If I recall it was something give or take around $8 million I think and we've had none since then.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Gerard.
Hi Grayson.
Good morning.
David maybe you can share with us on the LCR I think you said you guys are well positioned to reach the I guess 90% is where most of the regional banks need to be by January of 2016.
Assuming that's correct if rates don't change in 2016 and you then lift the LCR to 100% next year to reach the January of 2017 target should we expect some margin pressure as you do that if you're not already at 100%? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah I think you would see some downward pressure there.
I would not call it significant.
We continue to have – that's why we're positioned where we are today.
And we have a little bit more in cash.
It has already weighed down our margins.
Over time there could be a little bit of further compression but not significant enough – not a significant amount.
Thank you.
And on the follow-up question you've given us good detail on the oil portfolio and how you guys have looked at it.
One of the banks JPMorgan when they released numbers gave us some sensitivity analysis suggesting if oil got to $30 a barrel they would take another $500 million to $750 million in reserves.
Have you guys stress-tested this portfolio? I know you're using the future prices and discounting it back for the next 12 months to 18 months but have you gone beyond that saying if oil got to $35 $30 or $25 a barrel what would happen to the portfolio? This is Barb.
We have not run those models specifically with a $30 number but we have done an awful lot of dialogue on what happens if it goes to $30.
And it's not just a matter of the price; it's the speed at which it would go down to $30.
If it goes down to $30 slowly over time everyone has an opportunity to adjust their CapEx adjust their expense models et cetera.
If it goes quickly of course you're going to feel more pain.
But so far what we've found with our customers is they have taken all of the right measures at the right pace to make sure that they're adjusting their operating models as quickly as they can.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jennifer Demba of SunTrust Robinson.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jennifer.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I was wondering if you could give your perspective on the Houston market specifically right now and what you're seeing in terms of your overall Texas loan growth.
Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Jennifer we couldn't hear you very well.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
Could you give us some commentary on what you're seeing in the Houston economy right now? And what you're seeing in terms of the company's Texas loan growth over the last three months to six months? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think when you look at the markets that we're seeing in Texas clearly we're still seeing some good strength in most of the markets in Texas.
Obviously there's some softness in Houston.
We have – we're spending a lot of time focused on that market because it's one of the markets most exposed to the energy industry and our customers that are there.
But so far the Texas markets have held up surprisingly well.
As Barb had mentioned a moment ago the consumer in particular has shown some good strength in terms of benefiting from the lower pump prices but also there's a lot of diversification in a lot of the economy in Texas.
I think everyone's worried about what the contagion that may occur in some of these markets.
Quite frankly we haven't seen it in Houston yet.
We look for it especially in the commercial real estate market which we're monitoring very closely.
I'd add a little bit to that.
This is Barb.
Demand continues across all the Texas markets vigorously in fact for newly constructed single-family housing particularly in Austin Dallas Fort Worth San Antonio.
In Houston it's decelerated somewhat for newly constructed units exceeding $600 000 so pretty high price point.
But sales of the lower priced units those under $600 000 continue at a healthy clip.
And the home builder industry has responded pretty quickly.
They've reduced construction activity.
We look at that – looking at permits et cetera.
So again the market has been adjusting to the reduction in the oil prices.
Your next question comes from Dan Werner of Morningstar.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
With respect to – just a little more color on the commercial portfolio.
Is it primarily from drawdowns from existing lines or is there a more organic growth? And maybe kind of give some color on the energy in terms of the lines themselves.
It looks like you still had some increase in midstream.
I was wondering if that's from existing lines and kind of how you guys are addressing those.
Jr.
- Senior Executive Vice President Head-Corporate Banking Group</span></strong> So this is John Turner.
I would say that the commercial growth that we see is fairly broad-based and it is both a reflection of customers borrowing under lines of credit though we actually saw about a 30 basis point reduction in utilization of lines of credit during the quarter.
And customers borrowing to finance transactions to acquire new businesses to expand to add to their working capital or support their working capital needs associated with expansion of their businesses.
So we've seen a variety of activities that have resulted in growth in the book and as we said that growth has occurred across our businesses particularly in real estate and in our corporate banking business across our specialized industries verticals.
Good growth in power utilities in our restaurant book in technology and defense.
So we think nicely diversified and reflecting good fundamentals in that sector of the economy.
With respect to the energy book we have added a couple of midstream names over the course of the last 12 months.
We've done that typically through our Regions Business Capital group where we feel like we've got a very good asset support.
Those particular customers are operating under longer term contracts.
We think there's a lot of stability in that business and industry and we've seen an opportunity to grow a couple of nice relationships as a result of bringing those customers on.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Vivek Juneja of JPMorgan.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Vivek.
Hi.
I just wanted to check a couple of things.
Firstly the check posting order change that you'll were going to go through did that start in the third quarter or is that coming in 4Q? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah Vivek this will start in the fourth quarter.
You'll see a piece of that.
Okay because I saw that your service charges were down 8% year-on-year which is a little faster rate.
Any color on that then? What's making that go down a little bit faster David? Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> I just think it's more seasonality.
There's really nothing that stood out for us.
We continue to grow accounts and customers and feel good about service charges and I'll be a little more specific that posting order will start about mid quarter for us so we're still in that guidance we've given you on the posting order of $10 to $15 million per quarter.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But no real changes in the third quarter.
I mean still growing accounts growing transactions growing balances.
But seasonally we did see service charges slowdown.
But I think it's just normal seasonal adjustments.
Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> Vivek were you comparing quarter-to-quarter or year...? No I was looking actually year-on-year for the minus 8% quarter-over-quarter it was down – it was more flattish.
Because the year-on-year was down 8% so I was trying to get a sense of is there a customer behavior further change or is anything else that's causing that.
Jr.
- Chief Financial Officer &amp; Senior Executive Vice President</span></strong> No the primary driver there was if you remember we exited the Ready Advance product about a year ago so that was in your number last year that's not in your number this year.
That was the biggest component of that difference.
Okay.
A quick question for Barb.
Barb last quarter you'll talked about national credits where you had some issues.
Can you give us some update on where that stands? One of your peers this morning took some additional provisions for weakness based on global manufacturing conditions.
Could you weave any thoughts on what you're seeing in relation to that into your comments too? Yeah the shared national credits as you know there's currently going to be two reviews a year.
The second review is going to take place starting in November but it's only for the large players.
We will not be involved in that other than as a participant so we'll get some of those results likely January or so by the time they put the results out.
Relative to the overall shared national credit book though.
It's a very strong book a very good book for us.
We're happy with those credits.
Again we don't specifically look at the shared national credits and say because it's a shared national credit I reserve for it any differently.
We look account by account credit by credit; to see what the underlying issues are and what the appropriate level of reserve should be against it.
And any color on the manufacturing stuff that Fifth Third talked about this morning? They're seeing some weakness so they've taken some provisions.
What are you seeing in your manufacturing clients? Yeah what we're seeing is aluminum casting steel companies we're seeing a little bit of softness there keeping an eye on that sector.
But again as they move through our risk rating process if any of those credits do deteriorate of course they'll get a larger allowance as they move through our normal process.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well let me close and just say thank you for your time your attention and your questions today.
We would encourage you to attend our Investor Day on November 19 and we thank you again and we stand adjourned.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Regions Financial Corporation's Quarterly Earnings Call.
My name is Paula and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
List Underwood to begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in our call today.
Our presenters are Grayson Hall our Chief Executive Officer and David Turner our Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of management are present as well and available to answer questions as appropriate.
Also as part of our earnings call we will be referencing a slide presentation that is available under the Investor Relations section of www.Regions.com.
Also let me remind you that in the call and potentially in the Q&amp;A that follows we may make forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
For further details please reference our forward-looking disclaimer that is located in the appendix section of the presentation.
With that said I will turn it over now to Grayson.
Good morning and thank you List.
I want to say just a few words about List Underwood before we get started with our financial results.
As we announced earlier this week List will be retiring at the end of the month.
He's been with Regions for 23 years and has been a trusted advisor and valued member of our management team.
His impressive career spans 43 years and today marks his 90th earnings call with our company.
List congratulations we will certainly miss you as you start your new phase in life and wish you the very best in retirement.
Thank you Grayson.
Moving on to results overall we're pleased and encouraged by our achievements and results in 2015.
During the year we focused on the fundamentals growing and deepening our customer relationships while also strengthening our financial performance by investing in initiatives that will drive revenue growth and create a more efficient and effective organization in the future.
As a result we're a much stronger organization today and are committed to continuing to build sustainable franchise value.
For the fourth quarter we reported earnings from continuing operations of $272 million bringing our full-year 2015 total to $1 billion.
Earnings per share for the quarter totaled $0.21 per diluted share and $0.76 per diluted share for the full year.
These results reflect growth in total adjusted revenue despite a challenging operating environment.
Importantly we continue to deliver results in categories that we believe are fundamental to future income growth including checking accounts households Regions360 relationships and credit card accounts.
For example checking accounts grew by more than 2% during the year and active credit cards increased 11%.
We remain focused on expanding and deepening relationships through our needs-based approach to relationship banking and our 2015 results demonstrate that this approach is working.
During the year we delivered strong average deposit growth of $3 billion or 4%.
The mix of our deposits continues to strengthen as 92% are now low cost deposits and as we have noted before our markets provide us with unique and competitive advantages from a deposit composition perspective.
In 2015 we achieved solid adjusted loan growth of $5 billion or 6% from the prior year.
Adjusted loans and leases include a lease reclassification adjustments which David will speak to shortly.
Both business and consumer grew loans with total production for the year of $66 billion an increase of 12% from 2014.
Business lending had an excellent year growing adjusted loans 7%.
Commercial banking corporate banking and real estate banking all grew loans and 95% of our markets achieved loan growth reflecting the strength of our business model as local bankers collaborate with industry and product specialists to grow loans.
In particular within corporate banking our specialized industries group experienced solid growth led by technology and defense as well as franchise restaurant.
And the Real Estate Investment Trust lending business was strong throughout the year.
Consumer lending was also strong in 2015.
Total loans exceeded $30 billion at year end an increase of 5% over 2014.
Mortgage led this growth with loans increasing $496 million or 4%.
Additionally our new point of sale initiative bolstered growth in indirect lending with increased loans of $339 million.
Additionally credit card balances increased 7% from the previous year which drove growth in card and ATM income of $30 million or 9%.
Total adjusted revenue for the year increased 2% over 2014 reflecting growth in the balance sheet and investments we made to grow and diversify our revenue.
Capital markets income was exceptionally strong increasing $31 million.
Our recent acquisition of BlackArch Partners as well as our planned initiatives are expected to further augment capital markets' income in the future.
Wealth management had a strong year with income increasing 10% over the prior year.
Our focus to grow wealth management by continuing to retain recruit and develop talent was evident in the success of our financial consultants and insurance initiatives.
During 2015 we executed on our capital plan returning 93% of earnings to shareholders which is expected to be one of the highest percentages among our peers.
We also made several small yet important investments and acquisitions in 2015 that will help drive future income.
These transactions were a prudent and optimal use of our capital enabling us to expand our capabilities and product offerings to supplement future revenue growth.
With respect to the economic environment while the U.S.
economy is still slow and steadily improving there is a clear significant pressure from the global economy.
Low oil prices continue to create challenges for certain industries while benefiting others.
Consequently we continue to closely monitor our energy portfolio.
As expected there continues to be downward migration in risk ratings in this portfolio.
These shifts will continue if oil prices remain at current levels.
However we remain in close contact with our energy customers and believe that we're taking appropriate actions to mitigate vulnerabilities.
We continue to prudently build reserves which now stand at 6% of our direct energy exposure.
As a result we're cautious but we expect the future losses related to this portfolio to be managed.
As we begin 2016 we remain committed to our three primary strategic initiatives.
First grow and diversify our revenue streams.
Secondarily to practice disciplined expense management and lastly to effectively deploy our capital.
These are all integral to the successful execution of our strategic plan.
We continue to operate in a challenging environment that requires us to focus on what we can control.
To that end as we discussed in our Investor Day in November of last year it's essential that we take more aggressive steps as relates to expense management.
Our goal is to eliminate $300 million of core expenses over the next three years approximately 9% of the 2015 adjusted expense base.
This plan which is underway will help us fund our growth initiatives and build sustainable franchise value.
In summary 2015 was a solid year for Regions.
We accomplished a great deal while laying the foundation for future earnings growth.
With that I will now turn it over to David who will cover the details for the fourth quarter.
David? Thank you and good morning everyone.
I will take you through the fourth quarter details and then provide our expectations for 2016.
As Grayson noted 2015 was a solid year for Regions and the year ended particularly strong which sets us up well for 2016.
Before I get started during the fourth quarter Regions corrected the accounting for certain leases which had previously been included in loans.
These leases had been classified as capital leases but were subsequently determined to be operating leases.
The cumulative effect on pretax income lowered net interest income and other financing income $15 million and reduced the net interest margin by 5 basis points in the quarter.
The adjustment resulted in a reclassification of these leases out of loans into other earning assets totaling approximately $834 million at the end of the quarter.
The company does not expect this adjustment to have a material impact to net interest income or other financing income or net interest margin in any future reporting period.
With respect to the balance sheet adjusted loan and lease balances totaled $82 billion at the end of the fourth quarter and were up $1 billion or 1% from the previous quarter.
Business lending achieved solid growth withed adjusted balances totaling $52 billion at quarter end an increase of 1%.
Adjusted commercial loans grew $563 million or 1%.
Commitments increased 2% and line utilization increased 30 basis points to 46.3%.
Consumer lending had another strong quarter with every loan category increasing.
Loans in this portfolio totaled $30 billion an increase of 1% over the prior quarter.
Indirect auto lending increased 2% and other indirect lending which includes point of sale initiatives increased $55 million linked quarter or 11%.
We're pleased with the results of this new initiative.
Year-to-date loans in this portfolio have increased $339 million and we expect continued growth in 2016.
Looking at the credit card portfolio balances increased 6% from the previous quarter and our penetration rate into our deposit base now stands at 17.3% up 160 basis points from the fourth quarter of last year.
Mortgage loan balances increased $81 million and total home equity balances increased $31 million from the previous quarter as new production continued to outpace portfolio runoff.
Let's take a look at deposits.
Average deposit balances increased $322 million and ending balances increased over $1.2 billion during this quarter.
Deposit costs remained at historically low levels at 11 basis points and total funding costs remained low at 26 basis points.
With respect to deposits we're primarily core deposit funded with 74% of our deposits coming from consumer and wealth deposits.
Low cost deposits were 92% of total deposits.
Approximately half of our deposits come from cities with less than 1 million people and 50% of our deposits are from customers with $250 000 or less in their account.
This is why we believe our deposit betas will be a competitive advantage for us as rates rise.
Let's look at how this impacted our results.
Interest income and other financing income on a fully taxable basis was $866 million essentially flat with last quarter.
However excluding the impact of the lease adjustment net interest income and other financing income increased $15 million or 2%.
Higher loan balances and balance sheet hedging and optimization strategies were the primary drivers behind the linked quarter increase along with interest recoveries.
The benefit from interest recoveries is not expected to be at this level in the first quarter approximately $4 million less going toward.
The overall increase in net interest income and other financing income was partially offset by fixed asset repricing.
The net interest margin was 3.08%.
However excluding the lease adjustment net interest margin was 3.13% or flat with the previous quarter.
Total non-interest income increased 4% on an adjusted basis from the third quarter driven primarily by gains on sales of affordable housing investments and by higher card and ATM income.
Card and ATM fees increased 3% primarily related to an increase in commercial bank card usage an increase in the number of active cards at 3.7% and an increase in seasonal consumer spending.
Service charges were impacted by posting order changes that went into effect in early November and reduced non-interest income by approximately $7 million.
We expect the ongoing impact of this change to be at the lower end of our previously stated $10 million to $15 million quarterly range.
Wealth management income was down slightly quarter over quarter due to lower insurance income partially offset by higher investment management and trust fee income.
Capital markets income was relatively flat linked quarter as revenue from new product and service offerings was offset primarily by lower loan syndication fees.
Let's move on to expenses.
Total reported expenses in the fourth quarter were $873 million.
On an adjusted basis expenses totaled $861 million representing a decline of $33 million or 4% from the prior quarter.
This included a decrease of $24 million in FDIC fees primarily due to additional expenses of $23 million in the third quarter related to prior assessments.
The expected quarterly run rate for this expense is in the $22 million to $24 million range excluding the impact of the proposed FDIC surcharge.
Additionally the fourth quarter benefited from lower expenses related to unfunded commitment cost of $12 million.
Salaries and benefits increased $8 million or 2% linked quarter primarily attributable to $6 million in severance related expenses.
We also incurred $6 million of expenses related to 29 branch consolidations.
Our adjusted efficiency ratio was 63.4% in the fourth quarter but excluding the $15 million lease adjustment the adjusted efficiency ratio was 62.7%.
As discussed at Investor Day we will continue to make investments to grow our business.
However we must be more efficient in everything we do.
As Grayson noted our plan to become a more efficient organization including the elimination of $300 million in core expenses is underway.
Let's move on to asset quality.
Total net charge-offs increased $18 million to $78 million and represented 38 basis points of average loans.
This increase was primarily related to one large charge-off in the energy loan portfolio.
Total business services criticized and classified loans increased $117 million driven by some weakening in a small number of larger loans primarily within the energy portfolio.
However total non-accrual loans excluding loans held for sale declined from the third quarter.
Troubled debt restructured loans or TDRs also declined down 1% from the prior quarter.
The provision for loan losses was $69 million and our allowance for loan losses was down 2 basis points to 1.36% at the end of the fourth quarter.
And at quarter end our loan loss allowance to non-accrual loans or coverage ratio was 141%.
Regarding our energy portfolio while oil prices have declined exposure remains manageable.
Should oil prices remain at current levels charge-offs will be in the $50 million to $75 million range in 2016.
The energy charge-off taken this quarter reduces the previous range of $50 million to $100 million.
Additionally we currently have just over $150 million reserved or 6% of our direct energy exposure.
Given where we're in the credit cycle volatility in certain credit metrics can be expected especially related to larger dollar commercial credits in our portfolio and fluctuating commodity prices.
Let's move on to capital and liquidity.
During 2015 we returned $925 million to shareholders which included the repurchase of $621 million of common stock and $304 million in dividends.
Under Basel III the Tier 1 ratio was estimated at 11.7% and the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was estimated at 10.9%.
On a fully phased-in basis Common Equity Tier 1 was estimated at 10.7% well above current regulatory minimums.
Our loan to deposit ratio at the end of the quarter was 83% and at the end of the quarter we were fully compliant as it relates to the liquidity coverage ratio.
Now let me give you an overview of our current expectations for 2016.
We expect total loan growth to be in the 3% to 5% range on an average basis excluding the impact of the operating lease reclassification.
And regarding deposits we expect full-year average deposit growth in the 2% to 4% range.
And commensurate with our loan growth projections we expect net interest income and other financing income to increase in the 2% to 4% range.
Now should we experience no additional rate increases we expect to be at the lower end of that range.
As a result of our investments we expect to grow adjusted non-interest income somewhere in the 4% to 6% range.
We will continue to make investments in 2016.
However we have also begun to execute our plan to eliminate $300 million of core expenses of which 35% to 45% will occur in 2016.
Therefore we expect total adjusted non-interest expenses in 2016 to be flat to up modestly from 2015.
We expect to achieve an efficiency ratio of less than 63% in 2016 and positive operating leverage somewhere in the 2% to 4% range.
We still expect our net charge-offs to be in the 25 to 35 basis point range.
However given the current price of oil we would expect to be at the top end of that range.
In closing the fourth quarter was a strong finish to a solid year.
The investments we made in 2015 position us well for 2016 and beyond and we look forward to updating you on the progress throughout the year as we continue to build sustainable franchise value.
With that we thank you for your time and attention this morning.
And I will now turn it back over to List for instructions on the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you David.
We're ready to begin the Q&amp;A session of our call.
In order to accommodate as many participants as possible this morning I would like to ask each caller to please limit yourself to one primary question and one related follow-up question.
Now let's open the line operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Maybe we will just start off on credit.
First can you maybe give us a little more color on the loss you took what type of loan was it? Is there any credit of left? I guess when you think about the reserve that you've taken the roughly 6% what does your reserve contemplate for oil prices? We've heard others say that if oil prices stayed at this level you could see another incremental amount of provision.
Just wondering what that number would be for you.
I will address the second part.
The first part was an energy credit that's been around for a few years with M&amp;A activity which originally led to the credit.
It is a shared national credit.
There's five banks involved in it.
We saw some distress in this credit in the early part of the year.
We have been working this credit really hard during the course of this year and it simply came to conclusion near tend the end of the year.
What we've done is we have appropriately marked that credit.
We've taken the loss on that credit as you've heard.
And we've moved the residual balance into our held for sale and we anticipate that we will have that out of our held for sale numbers by the end of -- we're hoping January but certainly this quarter it will be out of our numbers.
Back to individual credit the charge-off on that was approximately $25 million just for rounding.
In terms of how we think about our reserve and look at prices as we work our way through our process in the backs of our minds we look at our price deck our price deck is roughly $36 right now sensitivity $28.90.
So we're looking in that range as we determine and establish what those numbers should be but we're also looking very heavily at each and every individual customer what their cash flow looks like what our collateral looks like what our asset coverage is.
We currently have asset coverage of 1.71 times on the E&amp;P book as an example.
So again in conversations and we have some ongoing conversations with our customers because we really do have a small number of customers we still believe that repayment ability is adequate with them and again establish our reserves accordingly.
Got it.
And then David had commented in his prepared remarks that you're expecting charge-offs to be towards the high end of the 25 to 35.
I guess from both a portfolio whether it's metals and mining or some other related areas or even if it's across different geographies whether it's Texas or Louisiana or anywhere else that's exposed to oil and gas are you seeing any other changing in credit patterns? Whether it's ticks up in delinquencies or anything that's having an impact on either growth or the overall credit performance.
No we're keeping a really close eye on all of that.
There is some pressure certainly on commodities in general across the industry as you know and that's just given the strong U.S.
dollar what's going on in Europe and in China in terms of the dislocation of the market.
There is some pressure there.
But we've seen nothing yet that is significantly concerning.
All right.
Maybe just one last quick one David just can you help us understand the trajectory of the net interest margin I guess maybe both based on the forward curve and if we don't get any additional rate hikes in 2016 where do you think the NIM would trend over the course of the year? A little bit of guidance in terms of -- if we don't get another change we will be at the lower end of our 2% to 4% guidance that we've given you.
Also gave you a little bit of guidance in my prepared comments in terms of margin.
We did have unusual recovery interest recoveries.
We think about $4 million of that won't repeat going forward.
But we're looking for a relatively stable NIM.
This is adjusting by the way for the lease accounting.
We were at 3.08% on net interest margin 5 points related to lease adjustments so 3.13% would have made us flat.
And we're looking for a relatively stable just to remind everybody that's been 1 or 2 points either side of where we're for 2016.
So we're looking for that guidance in terms of growth in NII that we've really been focusing on to be that 2% to 4% through the year.
So you may see some unusual changes in a given quarter but you've got to keep the year in mind when thinking about NIIs or trajectory.
Your next question comes from David Eads of UBS.
Maybe following up on energy when I look at the -- you guys had some disclosure on the criticized loans which I thought was pretty interesting.
When you look at it the criticized loans are actually higher on a percentage basis in the E&amp;P portfolio compared to oilfield services.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little about what you're seeing that has you more comfortable with the exposures on the E&amp;P side and I guess maybe a little bit less so on the oilfield services.
It's Barb Godin.
I will be happy to answer that.
As we do our redeterminations and we just finished up our fall redeterminations just about done what happens is as you readjust the borrowing base and again for fall redeterminations this year borrowing base adjustments downwards were a little under 8%.
Notwithstanding if that causes an over-advance what we will immediately do is call that loan a criticized loan and move it into a non-pass category.
Again that would account for the reason that we have roughly 48% of our E&amp;P book that is shown right now as criticized.
Having said that we have a rigorous process as well around our oilfield services portfolio as you can see on the chart that we did provide 32 customers make up 75% of that portfolio.
So we're able to stay in constant and close contact with them.
Again as we see any weakness there again we're very quick to move it into a criticized category.
Just maybe to follow up on that on the E&amp;P portfolio if you have 400 -- close to half of the loans were in -- a lot of those were in an over-advanced position I would think they'd only be further over-advanced position now where oil prices have gone since the redetermination was complete.
So would that suggest that criticized loans the real criticized exposure might even be higher than that? No.
If I take the spring redetermination that we did that was somewhere between -- let's just use roughly 15% reduction in borrowing basis.
Now we're saying there's an incremental 8% I will round it up on top of that so roughly 23% reduction in borrowing base.
Remember as well in the industry customers get a six-month cure period in which they're able to cure and we have seen a number of customers.
Again those earlier in the year that had access to capital markets and even now those that are still very strong have access to capital markets and they're able to take themselves out of an over-advanced position.
Okay.
Maybe just as we think about the dislocations we're seeing in the markets right now I know it's fairly early but do you guys have any sense of how that -- if this continues how that would impact the strategy you guys have for growing the capital markets and wealth management businesses? Is there anything that's particularly sensitive to market activity levels that you'd be more concerned about the growth trajectory? This is David.
I will tell you that we're creating these new products and services.
The driver of that is because our customers need that and we're looking to have a more fulsome offering to our customers.
And we're out there talking to them and feel very good about where they stand right now which is why I reiterated our guidance for 2016 on things like loan growth being in the 3% to 5%.
In our discussions with our customers we still see the domestic economy being okay.
We're looking at 2% 2.5% GDP and so there is this dislocation that's happening here of late but as we see our customers we believe they need the products and services the capital markets investments we're making we think are going to be very strong and looking for that to continue and help us get to that 4% to 6% growth rate that we're expecting in non-interest revenue.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore IS.
It's actually Steve Moss for John.
I guess first off for List congratulations and good luck on your retirement here.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And wanted to ask about energy again.
Just wondering here with regard to oil -- if it declines further to $20 to $25 let's say what are your potential losses there? I will ask Barb to reiterate and complete this statement but when we look at our energy portfolio we have got a very disciplined process of calculating probability defaults and loss given defaults.
We've got the redeterminations we're doing on the E&amp;P portfolio twice a year.
So we feel good about the level of rigor and discipline around our process that drives that evaluation of how much we reserve based on what we think the incurred losses may be.
And so I think our confidence in that process is very solid.
We're staying disciplined around that process and if oil prices continue to decline that process is going to drive risk ratings down on some of our credits and will drive a higher level of criticized classified loans and will drive how we reserve against those loans.
But it will be on an incurred loss basis.
Until that incurred loss occurs from an accounting perspective our process is going to determine that.
So Barb you want to add too? I think what I would add to that is the operative word here being how long will oil prices stay depressed and you mentioned somewhere in the $20 a barrel range.
And again if it's in the $20 a barrel range and it stays there for an entire year it could be in terms of charge-offs -- this is not provision -- could be up to an incremental $50 million and that is based on some back of the envelope versus anything precise I would have to tell you.
But again that's not our view and I don't think it's the view of the industry at this point that oil is going to stay sub-$30 for any length of time.
Okay.
And then with regard to the criticized level you indicated on the E&amp;P is 48% was just wondering what is the total amount of criticized loans in the energy portfolio? Total amount of criticized loans in terms of everything including the operating leases we had $900 million.
Yes.
Okay.
$900 million on 3.2 or 28%.
And then I guess one more thing.
With regard to the margin just a little more color here in terms of short-term expectations for the margin given the first Fed hike how we should think about the margin in first quarter.
So I try to give you a little bit more global view of where we thought NII margin was going.
So we start breaking it down.
We get pretty granular.
There's puts and takes either way.
If you just want to focus on that component of the December increase we're probably benefiting in the $5 million to $10 million range in the first quarter but remember there's some other things going the other way.
You've got day counts about a $5 million working against you.
You've got the interest reversal of $4 million that I talked about in my prepared comments.
So I think it's better to look overall at the guidance in terms of relatively stable margin and growth in NII in that 2% to 4% range commensurate with the loan growth that we talked about of 3% to 5%.
Your next question comes from Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
So on energy again looking at the build from 4.7% reserves that you talked about at the Investor Day for 3Q up to the 6% and then taking into account the charge-offs as well to me it looks like almost all of the provisioning in the quarter related to the energy portfolio.
Is that the right way to be thinking about it or am I missing something there? No you're actually thinking about it right.
If you look at the balance of our book the balance of our book actually improved and we were able to reallocate that provision over to the energy customer.
If you looked at the credit quality of our book and you ex energy then the balance of our book performed very well this past quarter and we continue to see improvements in almost all of our credit metrics.
But if you look at -- you add the energy back in and to Mark's point there's stress in that sector but because the way our portfolio's performing it allowed us to build reserves around the energy portfolio.
Just a follow-up you've mentioned commodities a couple of times in the discussion.
Can you just remind us where the other commodities exposures are and how stress in commodities beyond oil and gas could have some impact on credit? As I think about commodities firstly our book in commodities we have roughly $400 million in fabricated metal and primary metals and another $430 million so just to give you a rough sense for the size of the book.
Again a lot of those commodities in terms of metals that's also an indirect hit so to speak from what's happening in the oil sector because they rely on a lot of those metals to provide piping et cetera.
You're seeing a secondary knock-on effect and one that we're keeping a close eye on.
We have a fairly minor exposure to agriculture.
Yes $800 million in ag.
Your next question comes from Stephen Scouten of Sandler O'Neill.
Question for you maybe on the expenses you had some nice progress here in the quarter.
I'm wondering is any of that going to reverse out in the coming quarter especially maybe that $12 million on unfunded commitments that was saved? And maybe beyond that are you still expecting about 35% to 45% of the $300 million in saves to come out here in 2016? So we do expect 35% to 45% of the $300 million to come out in 2016.
And you're right the reason we broke that out separately is that is not something that's expected to benefit at least to the degree we had in the second quarter.
So we wanted to call it out separately so you could take that into account in your model.
Okay.
And just on a net basis do you still believe that the $300 million really just allows you to keep overall expenses relatively flat and maybe even still up on a total dollar amount for 2016? That's right Stephen.
We're calling for continuing to make investments to grow NIR utilizing our savings of the $300 million at least the 35% 45% of that to help us keep expenses relatively flat to up modestly from the level that we're reporting for 2015.
And then maybe if I could on capital and the buyback it seems like you got about $350 million remaining maybe relative to the CCAR ask.
Could that be accelerated in the quarter based on where the stock is trading now with it under tangible book? Is that something where you guys can take advantage of where the stock's trading currently? Any change to -- $350 million is right $175 million generally in each quarter.
In order to change the amount and/or timing requires an approval from our regulatory supervisors and there is a mechanism for doing that.
But we have to assess that and can't guarantee there would be any change from what's already been approved.
Your next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
This is actually John Hearn on for Gerard.
Just two questions for you.
The first back to the criticized balance for the energy portfolio can you tell us what it was in the third quarter? Criticized balance? It was roughly $300 million less.
$300 million less.
I can get you an exact number after the call.
And then more broadly the regulators in December I believe they expressed some concern about underwriting standards for CRE and construction lending.
Can you comment a bit about what you're seeing in those segments and are you beginning to see any changes since the comments came out? No in fact we're feeling very good about our book CRE and construction lending we used to have a book that was very heavy previously going back several years.
And we've taken a lot of lessons from that to ensure that we understand what we're putting on our books and that we need to feel comfortable both in a stress situation as well as a normal situation.
So we have been very deliberate about what we're putting on the books.
We have not had very much growth came off a very low base in terms of growing that book and again very deliberate on the types of credits that we're willing to underwrite.
So again from a credit perspective I feel very comfortable.
Your next question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
Just wanted to ask about where acquisitions may fit in in select markets if at all this next year.
Chris we certainly are very analytical and disciplined about how we focus on acquisitions.
Quite frankly our primary focus has been on bolt-on acquisitions in the non-bank space.
2015 we did two relatively small transactions that you're familiar with.
We continue to look at the marketplace and we still think there's opportunities in both our wealth segment as well as our capital markets segment and insurance segments for bolt-on acquisitions.
We continue to look.
I think the expectation is these are going to be relatively small in size and still at this juncture we're -- valuations are that predominantly our interest is in the non-bank space.
Grayson if pricing did change would you reconsider the bank side or would that have to shift a lot to affect that? As markets change we always reconsider.
So markets change we try to analyze what the changes are and see where the opportunities are.
Your next question comes from Peter Winter of Sterne Agee.
Just want to go back to the 2016 expectations.
The operating leverage of 2% to 4% if the revenues come in a little bit weaker than expected would you guys let more of the expense saves fall to the bottom line to ensure that operating leverage that you're forecasting? We looked at a lot of different scenarios Peter in terms of committing to the 2% to 4% or at least indicating if we could get to 2% to 4% operating leverage there are a lot of different scenarios.
We believe through our expectations of revenue growth and our expectations of expense management that we will get there.
The combination of how we get there may change and we will adjust adapt and overcome.
But our goal is to generate that positive operating leverage regardless of the environment.
Your next question comes from Jack Micenko of SIG.
One of the industry conferences in the fourth quarter I think you had disclosed that you were moving towards the upper end on the branch closure range that you gave at Investor Day.
Does that still hold you true? And then the second question would be the cadence of those closures should we think about -- is there any guidance we can think about in dealing with modeling some of those onetime charges that we saw like in this quarter? Jack so we did say we were looking at 100 to 150 branches.
We said we would probably be towards the upper end of that through our strategic planning period.
We've announced 29.
We continue to look each and every day at how to best optimize our branch footprint which has included even opening some new ones at times.
But it's hard to get the cadence down to give you that commitment up front because it's all facts and circumstances based.
We have to look at our footprint what's going on in the footprint.
We have a lot of coordination that has to happen.
What I can tell you is so we had a $6 million charge on the 29 branches that we closed or made a decision on consolidating this quarter.
There will be another roughly $6 million associated with those branches so it's -- call it $12 million.
And we expect a payback on that of about two years which is what we've had historically.
So all branches aren't created equal they're all a little different.
If you go back and look at all of our branch consolidations it will give you a feel for what that charge might be over time but it's hard for me to give you precise timing.
And then obviously you have a large large portion of your deposits are consumer.
Have you been feeling any pressure on the commercial side to pass on any of the rate increase some of the other banks have talked about today? No at this juncture we just have not seen deposit rate pressures.
Given such a fairly modest increase in rates the pressure from any part of our depository base has been very muted.
We continue to watch very closely what our competitors are and watch very closely what our customers are saying to us.
But quite to the contrary we continue to grow deposits and in fact grow low cost deposits at a pretty healthy pace.
And so we're not seeing that particular issue arise at this juncture.
Your next question comes from Kevin Barker of Piper Jaffray.
You made the comments that you're looking at acquisitions in the non-bank space.
Could you describe that a little bit further and what targets you're looking at potentially in order to expand your fee income? Sure.
This is David.
As Grayson mentioned one of our strategic initiatives is to diversify our revenue and in this context diversification is away from NII and into NIR.
As we think about the desire to diversify and we think about how we can have a more full-some offering to our customers things in capital markets come to mind.
You saw our acquisition of BlackArch Partners our M&amp;A advisory firm.
We looked at insurance entities.
We will continue to do that agencies continue to expand there.
We would like to have a more solid offering in fixed income sales and trading so we're looking there.
And I think that these acquisitions have a tendency to be smaller acquisitions but they fit into our need and our desire to continue to diversify and we think fit very well with our strategy.
And really serve -- they fit a customer need.
Trying to identify the needs that our customers have and how we can serve those better but at the same time to David's point diversify our revenue.
But we make sure that these are incremental in nature bolt-on acquisitions that don't -- that have a risk profile that we feel like is prudent.
And so I think you should expect us to continue to look at those opportunities over 2016 but our primary focus as you've seen is on organic growth in the markets we're in today with the services we have today.
But this is in addition to that.
But primary focus is organic growth.
Okay.
And apologies if somebody might have mentioned this earlier.
With regard to your CCAR in 2016 we had a pretty big impact from the stress test last year.
Given the decline in oil prices and where you are now do you anticipate a similar decline this time around and how are you preparing for CCAR going into 2016? Well so we got a lot of work going on with CCAR to be prepared for our submission in April.
We look at a lot of different portfolios.
I think from a credit standpoint we mentioned earlier that ex energy our credit portfolios are actually improving.
That works one way in terms of the CCAR submission.
Energy clearly needs to be taken into account.
Barb laid out some of the stresses that we're seeing and how we will account for those.
From our standpoint we have one of the strongest levels of Common Equity Tier 1 of our peer group.
We did return 93% of our earnings to our shareholders which we think was appropriate.
And as a result we didn't want to continue to accrete capital because we felt like we had enough capital to run our business in a prudent manner.
We look at our stresses all the time not just from a CCAR standpoint.
We do that for ourselves to make sure we're managing and optimizing our capital in our company so that we have enough in times of stress and -- but not too much in terms of ensuring we can have an appropriate return to our shareholders.
So exactly how all this will manifest itself in CCAR we will have to see and let the -- we run a lot of programs.
We will just need to see what the results are.
We don't see anything drastically different than what we have submitted before ex-energy.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Stephen Scouten of Sandler O'Neill.
Thanks for letting me hop on for one follow-up.
I just wanted to confirm that $50 million to $75 million in potential incremental off the oil space around here that's assumed just for 2016 as I heard it.
And so would we assume that there could be further tail risk if oil prices remain depressed for a longer period of time? That's right.
That's a 2016 number.
Obviously if oil stays low longer then there is tail risk to that.
Thank you.
Well with that we stand adjourned.
Thank you for your participation and we look forward to next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.