Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America first quarter 2010 conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you and good morning to everyone joining us for RGA's first quarter 2010 conference call.
Greig Woodring will briefly comment on our results we released yesterday and then we'll respond to questions from our participants.
I'll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder related to forward-looking information and our use of non-GAAP financial measures.
We'll make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during the call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
You are cautioned that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results is included in the earnings release issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we'll make comments about our results based upon operating income both on a pretax and after-tax basis.
Under SEC regulations; operating income is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our continuing operations.
Please refer to the tables in our press release for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for the various business segments.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
I will provide some brief comments on our first quarter results and then we will open the line for your questions.
Our first quarter results are mixed we continue to show up on the balance sheet as our investment portfolio continues to increase in value and asset impairments were limited.
The capital base increased to its highest level yet.
Our first quarter consolidated operating income totaled $93 million or $1.25 per diluted share significant increases on both counts over difficult 1Q '09 but below what we expected.
The primary source of our current period shortfall was adverse mortality experience in our US traditional market.
I will address specific aspects of this business in a moment.
Foreign currency fluctuations added $0.08 per share compared to first quarter '09 and an increase in the company's tax provision took away $0.07 per share.
We expect the tax provision increase to reverse later in the year.
Consolidated net income increased to $122.4 million or $1.64 again significantly surpassing a difficult first quarter '09.
Recall that the first quarter '09 reflected substantial realized and unrealized losses from investments and derivatives.
Consolidated net premiums including $74 million from the ReliaStar Group Insurance acquisition were at expected levels and totaled $1.6 billion during the quarter an increase of 13% on an original currency basis and 21% on a reported US dollar basis over first quarter '09.
Net investment income was strong compared to 1Q '09 and our unrealized gain position continued to rise along with the overall strength of our investment portfolio.
Likewise our capital and liquidity positions are at all time highs.
Impairment losses reflected an income were just $6.3 million this quarter down substantially from $41.5 million in last year's first quarter.
Out traditional US business reported pre-tax operating income of $61 million compared to $72.6 million in the first quarter of '09.
Both periods reflected higher than expected claims as did the first quarter of '08.
Premiums were up 15% for the quarter including the ReliaStar business at 6% (inaudible).
2009 the US traditional business generated a 13% return based upon models of our issue year cohorts we expect that to fall a bit in this year and bottom out as the business begins the slow rise upward.
For 2010 we expect to see low double-digits returns on US mortality business and returns around 13% for RGA as a whole.
This quarter much like the first quarter of the past couple of years contained the seasonality effect of high claims close with our lowest quarterly premium loans although better in the first quarter of the past two years this quarter's claims were 1% to 2% higher than expected in the US.
We continually reassess mortality trends which has implications for pricing of new business and for long-term profitability.
Our current pricing always takes into account the most current information and targets the long-term return of at least 13%.
Our US asset intensive business reported another strong quarter as the broader capital markets continued its rebound.
$16.5 million of pretax operating income this quarter was just ahead of the expected run rate of $15 million to $16 million per quarter.
Turning to Canada pretax operating income for the quarter totaled $16 million compared to $17.8 million last year and decrease was due to somewhat higher than expected claims experienced in the current period.
Premiums were strong this quarter increasing 27% on a Canadian dollar basis.
We continue to see a strong flow of credit like businesses.
In total our North American operations included roughly $20 million of higher than expected claims this quarter.
This equates to about 2% of total claims which is not an unusual fluctuation.
Our international operations again reported solid results this quarter Asia-Pacific reported as a strong pretax operating result of $26.6 million compared to $7.1 in the prior year period due to better than expected claims primarily in Australia and Hong Kong.
Original currency net premiums were slightly lower than last year but higher by 17% in translated US dollars.
As mentioned last quarter growth rates in South Korea and Japan will be lower this year as a result of several large treaties reaching the end of their life cycles but we expect growth rates to pick back up in these markets in 2011.
Our Europe and South Africa segment reported pretax operating income of $10.2 million for the current quarter versus $8.1 million for last year.
Original currency net premiums increased 14% and on a US dollar basis premiums were up 26%.
Our UK operations reported strong results due to favorable claims experience offset in part by adverse claims experience in South Africa.
We expect European marketplace to be a strong source of near term growth for our international operations.
In summary we're off to a slow start on the earnings front much like each of the past two years.
We generated a consolidated annualized operating return on equity an excess of 10% for the quarter and 13% over the past 12 months despite the sub-par mortality in this quarter.
We will continue to annualize US claims experience the largest factor in our results and believe we have a good understanding of what to expect going forward.
Our newly acquired group reinsurance business is off to a solid start.
We are well capitalized with the solid balance sheet which will allow us to take advantage of opportunities as M&amp;A activity except on the direct side.
We appreciate your support and interest in RGA and we will now open up for questions.
Thank you the question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from Jeff Schuman with KBW Greig I was wondering if you could help us to little bit better understand what you are trying to tell us about the US traditional business.
It was in the press release and in your comments you've talked about ongoing analysis and in fact about the analysis kind of informing your pricing and so forth but I guess its not clear whether you are telling us that recent analysis of these quarter's results is suggesting that some of the business isn't in earning as well as had been expected previously or whether things are still tracking pretty much as expected but just once again we've just seen some quarterly volatility.
In other words is there something other than the usual sort of volatility that we should be aware of here? Yeah Jeff we know which years of our business have the tightest margins which have the best margins as business moves forward; each of those years contributes to the current year's earnings in a different weighting if you will and so we know how the progression of returns should go and it moves in a stately fashion through the course of time.
So we have been expecting that based on our models that returns would be marginally marching down because of the most competitive years from 98 to 2003 having a bigger impact and we're bottom out about this year.
Last year we earned 13% on that business.
We expect to come reasonably close to that this year maybe a little south of it and then marginally increase each year going forward.
This year like the last couple of years we've had extra claims in the first quarter we have a high degree of confidence in our annual mortality rate assumptions that we expect for the year we tend to pick up a little bit of seasonality in the winter months in both the fourth quarter and the first quarter that is unfortunately been the pattern in the last couple of years as well and you noticed that last year and the year before frankly we started off this way actually little worse than each of those two years and rebounded by the end of the year in the individual markets.
So in other words this is something that we have unfortunately come to expect a bit of and anticipate a bit in our quarterly forecasts.
So to put it in other way you don't see the business fundamentally different than you did when you set the guidance range for 2010? Is that correct? That's right.
Once again who knows what kind of random variations we'll get but there's nothing to preclude the possibility at this point that you could see recovery in this calendar year as you did in the last couple of calendar years.
Is that fair? Well that's certainly what we hope you can always have a fluctuation that doesn't recover in a given year but we don't expect that this is anything other than the same sort of events we saw in 2008 and 2007.
Now there is no law that says the first quarter has to be bad because we have had good first quarters but it seems to be more often than not our most difficult quarter.
If we look in the corporate segment the interest expense was significantly lower this quarter and it wasn't clear to me why that was the case.
Why was that lower? Part of that is the short-term rate but there is also several million dollars of interest expense within [48] that is with our broader tax provision.
So I don't have the exact number at my finger tips but that did drive down interest expense several million dollars.
Okay this would not be sort of the run rate is that correct? That's right.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Macquarie.
I think I understand the comments regarding the '98 to '03 vintage years.
I guess I would just ask the question is are you still comfortable with the guidance range that you put out at the beginning of the year? Mark this is Jack probably it's a good point to remind everybody that we don't update guidance we typically to be in the year issue guidance and then it is what it is.
I think I would echo Greg's comments that we started last couple of years with the difficult first quarter and essentially came in right at are very close to guidance.
So you can draw your own conclusion there but we don't want to get in the position of either affirming or not affirming guidance.
And then was there anything specific in the nature of the claims or is it larger claims? I believe that was kind of an issue over the last several quarters or anything else that you saw in the numbers? There was a fair component of large claims pretty much like we've seen in the last period of time that sits it was not unusual.
We did see more debts of people over age 80 than we would have expected in terms of numbers.
We don't have cause of debt so we don't know whether those are flu related or seasonal type claims but we'll find that out as time goes along.
And then finally can you just talk about I guess capital a little bit and any deployment opportunities? Yeah this is Jack we still have some degree of redundant capital in excess of $0.5 billion currently.
That is certainly available to deploy in terms of block transactions or anything like that and there are those opportunities out there that's always hard to predict the extent to which and the timing of any such deployment so that's probably best I can do there.
And we'll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
I was hoping we could actually get a little bit more into Mark's second question there on capital and deployment.
Last couple of quarters Greig you guys have talked about an active pipeline but obviously difficulty in predicting what might occur.
Can you give us sort of an update on where you see the opportunities? Is it still more heavily weighted to financial reinsurance? I think you mentioned in your opening remarks some M&amp;A maybe on the primary side where you can play a potential role.
Can you give us a little bit more detail there?  Yeah John we are little leery of trying to say that there is a lot of things in the pipeline that are real promising or I can say we are very busy right now but we have as Jack said no idea what's going to happen and when.
But there are a lot of things going on in the M&amp;A front mostly smaller blocks but we have a very active pricing department both internationally and domestically at this stage.
They are looking at a lot of different things and we will see how this year pans out.
But we are happy with the level of activity at this point; we'd like to see that translated into some transactions during the course of the year.
Those are somewhat hard to predict.
We saw a lot of financial reinsurance as you mentioned towards the end of last year.
We are not seeing a lot right now because it's typical that those things have a closing date that typically towards year-end then we will expect the same level of activity its not more actually this year.
So then just last comment or last question.
I think last quarter you guys had indicated that by the end of 2010 if some of these opportunities don't really pan out you'll start to consider returning some of that capital to shareholders either through increased dividend or buyback or both.
Obviously with the weakness in the results this quarter your stock is already in my view anyway and I don't necessarily need you to comment attractive on a relative basis versus a lot of life insurance so does that play into your mind-set at all as it relates to how much longer you will wait for something to develop? John this is Jack.
As you might expect we continually assess the capital situation and our potential opportunities to deploy that capital and I think we did make the comment previously and this does reflect our thinking that if we go through another year and for any number of reasons don't execute on any meaningful number of call them block opportunities and at some point we would think very hard about returning capital in someway if we didn't have in our view ways to deploy that appropriate return.
So that's an ongoing deliberation and its influenced by the rate at which we're deploying just in general operations that capital and our views on opportunities going forward in terms of block transactions.
Out intent and expectation is that we will deploy the capital but if we have to take stock and reassess at some point we will do so.
And from JPMorgan we'll go next to Jimmy Bhullar.
First on capital could you quantify how much you believe you have to deploy towards either at block transactions or share buybacks if you eventually pursue like if not specific then just at least give us a range and then secondly I realize we're only one month into the second quarter but are you able to comment on how the second quarter is progressing in terms of mortality.
And then finally on taxes if Congress does extend the active financing legislation I think the charge that you took in the first quarter or the higher taxes should reverse but if they don't does the amount in the first quarter reflect the full year impact already or would taxes be elevated throughout the year then? Let me start with that last one on taxes we wouldn't expect to recurrence quarter-to-quarter if in fact Congress does not act.
But we've been advised that to expect Congress to act in fact in May I think there is a break end of May and the expectation is if they were act before that of course there is no guarantees but that is our expectation.
I think you would ask about the range of excess capital it's between $500 million and $600 million right now and we would never want to run that down so that we have literally no excess capital but you can think of the vast majority of that as available for deployment if the opportunities come up.
And then any comments on mortality so far this quarter? Yes we know what mortality is Jimmy through today actually or through yesterday.
But we don't like to comment because it's kind of misleading to a short period like that.
(Operator Instructions).
And we'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates I wanted to follow-up and then ask a couple of my own Jack.
I know that you don't like to update your guidance but I think you kind of did so I would like you to comment on that.
Your original what you said at the end of the fourth quarter is we expect ROE to stay between 13% and 14% and that would have been like a 630 to 690 type of number on beginning equity and the statement now is towards that low end towards 13% is what you are staying at the quarter.
The way I read that that would seem to imply that you kind of expect the next three quarters to roll out as you expected at the beginning of the year and then whether you make up the first quarter or not remains to be seen.
Is that an accurate way of looking at this? Steven this is Jack that maybe implying a level of precession that may be doesn't exist as we look forward.
I am not sure I'll put a fine point on 13% versus 13.5% sort of mid-point.
I guess maybe there's another way to say this in our minds that we kind of lump all those together and that's really essentially the same thing.
If I can go on to some of my own and could you talk first I want to talk about Europe and South Africa.
That's an area that you've targeted for near term growth offsetting what's going on in Asia but there was a decline in new business production there year-over-year.
I was wondering if you can comment on that.
I didn't know if you'd given any number for the adverse mortality in Canada and maybe you can give us a sense of the seasonality.
Are you up half a point over average in the first and fourth quarters and down half a point versus average in the second and third quarters something like that? Yeah I would say the first and fourth quarters might be up typically between 1% and 2%.
1% and 2%.
In terms of Europe its not so much there maybe a way to put it rather than targeting that for growth is that our position in the markets are allowing us to grow at a nice rate we see opportunities there I wouldn't get too concerned about our quarterly production numbers because they tend to reflect reported numbers and there is a little bit of noise in those numbers all the time.
The fact the matter is I think our premiums are up nicely in Europe and South Africa and that reflects the annualized growth year-over-year in that business and that's probably a better way to focus on year-over-year growth rather than one quarter's production numbers at a time.
Maybe I can handle that.
We commented that roughly North American operations we sustain $20 million or so best estimate of additional claims flow I would characterize that Canadian portion of that is around $8 million.
And we'll go next to Eric Berg with Barclays Capital.
[Siddharth Patel] I had a couple of questions the first one being on the US traditional mortality business.
Just to get my understanding correct Greig you mentioned in the release that the competitively priced business is acting as a damper on the returns for this particular business.
Am I correct to say that this is only '98 to 2003 because book-in-business as you mentioned earlier and that this downfall will continue in 2010? Yes that business in effects every year from now until probably 30 40 years from now.
If you remember the discussions we had in those years you might have been round.
We were always talking about how competitive the marketplace was.
We were talking about market shares for us of 12% 13% in those days compared to 20% 22% these days.
We were struggling in that market to capture 5% and 10% shares at times of reinsurance treaty.
So it was a very competitive difficult time we've known that a lot has been part of our '06-'07 '05-'04 all those years has been part of their history as well and so it will continue to play out and that's the way it goes.
We don't have like property casualty industry big ups and downs in claims where you swing from positive results to negative results but you have periods of time where you are more competitive and periods of time where you are less competitive and margins are a little bit wider.
So we blend all those together in each year's experience.
Is it fair to say that then the under pricing are probably the competitiveness was is it taking place at the insurance company level or was it at the reinsurance company level? Is that the reinsurance level? Reinsurance market was very competitive in those days.
My last question is on the Canadian business.
In the release it was mentioned that it was adverse mortality in Canada for this quarter.
Is this adverse mortality been experienced over many quarters and if that's the case is this problem the same as or different from that being experienced in the traditional US mortality business? No.
Every market always has its different periods of time when it's more competitive and less.
There were years were the Canadian market was quite competitive.
Our experience in mortality business in Canada has been very favorable over the last three or four years in general.
We've had extremely good mortality results probably substantially better than we would have expected under typical pricing assumptions during this period over the last several years.
We've had a little bit higher mortality last year than we had previously with probably not to be unexpected and this quarter was a little bit higher.
And we'll go next to Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Jack on the asset intensive I asked at the end of the conference call last quarter about what is the norm there? I think we all agreed that the norm there was probably about $12 million and other $3 million from financial reinsurance.
Are you suggesting a new norm for asset intensive of $16 million? No Steven I would suggest I may have mischaracterized it or are not done a good job of describing at last quarter.
I think what you see reflected here is our best estimate of the expectation.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
I apologize if you spoke to this but ReliaStar I think you gave us the premium impact.
Can you give us any sense of just how the business performed otherwise and is there everything on track in terms of retaining the key employees and running that business going forward? Yes Jeff this is Jack.
In terms of the financial results and that sort of thing while we don't break them out separately there is certainly add or exceeding that doesn't mean a whole lot for one quarter but certainly add or exceeding our expectations in terms of the underlying economics and that sort of thing.
Greig you may want to comment.
In terms of the people in the integration Jeff we are more convinced than ever that this was a good acquisition in terms of the way we see people operating and we have kept the staff.
We have come to respect the staff in what they do and we are very pleased with the start they've gotten off to as Jack said their one quarter doesn't mean much it could have gone the other way if things have been that but its going off to a good start which is nice and it's a good team.
We are very pleased with that acquisition and expect it will contribute significantly with RGA over time.
The integration is not a real expensive integration because it's a standalone unit but the integration of systems in accounting information and so forth is continuing pretty much as planned.
And we have a follow up from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I just had a couple of follow-ups.
First if you could comment on how pricing trends are in the US business.
Some of your competitors and like companies like Hanover have been pretty active or trying to grow their US presence.
And then secondly in your Asian business the premium growth ex-currency was pretty light I think down 3.4%.
I'm not sure if that's because of some treaties expiring or there's something else and if you could just give us an outlook.
Should that get better from here or is this what it should look like for the rest of the year on a constant currency basis? Jimmy we expect the Asian growths pick up a bit we did mention last quarter that as we look out from this point.
We are expecting a low in both Japan and South Korea; as that business have seen the end of some large producing treaties coming to the end of their natural production and so flattening out of premiums a bit in those markets but we don't expect to see a fall of the magnitude we saw in the first quarter sustain through the year we expect it to pick up.
In terms of pricing trends in the US we still think the pricing environment is fairly favorable.
The business of volume exceeded into the marketplace is contracting and we saw that marginally contracting in '09 based on official numbers that were published by Society of Actuaries our Munich Re survey the business that RGA is riding has been pretty stable.
However we've basically continued production at about the same levels and we are very pleased with the pricing levels generally speaking on the business we're taking on.
Mr.
Lay there are no further questions.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing remarks sir.
Okay that really pretty much ends our conference call.
Thanks to everyone who'd participated and looking in today and to the extent any other questions come up feel free to call us here in St.
Louis.
With that we'll end the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead.
This is Jack thanks to everyone for joining us this mornings for RGA's second quarter 2011 conference call.
With me this morning is Greig our CEO.
I’ll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder of our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig’s prepared comments we’ll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things comments about investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Please keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on a pre-tax and after tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplements for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our investor relations website at www.rgare.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Greig for his comments.
The consolidated results for the quarter were in line with our expectations.
We had mixed underwriting results including better than expected performance in Canada and some adverse results in some of our international operations.
US operations our largest segment performed in line with expectations including solid contributions from Asset Intensive business.
On the whole we met our expectations in terms of reported operating income which totaled a $128 million or $1.72 per diluted share up from last years 122 million or $1.63.
Foreign currency fluctuations helped operating income by $3.8 million or about $0.05 share.
Annualized operating ROE was 12% this quarter and was 13% over the last 12 months.
Consolidated net income totaled a 133 million or a $1.78 per diluted share up from a $127 million or a $1.70 per share last year.
Reported premiums were 1.8 billion up 13% quarter-over-quarter.
Ignoring the look from currency fluctuations premiums rose 8% a little off our expected pace perhaps.
Investment income increased 16% this quarter totaling $337 million with the yield of 5.35%.
Yield was down compared to last years’ second quarter but was flat with the first quarter of 2011.
Contributing to the increase in investment income was a $20 million rise in the fair value of option contract supporting equity-indexed annuities.
Without the effect of those option contracts investment income was up 9% quarter-over-quarter; a good result which reflects the continued growth of our invested asset base.
Investment impairments were relatively low again.
Our net realized gain position increased nearly 25% this quarter adding over $2 to book value per share which now stands at $71.88 per share.
Excluding all other comprehensive income book value per share is $57.51.
Capital management continues to be an area of focus for RGA.
We are pleased to report a 50% increase in our quarterly shareholder dividend which as announced yesterday rises from $0.12 to $0.18 per share.
This action reflects our strong capital and liquidity positions while providing flexibility for future growth opportunities.
Further we took advantage of a relatively low interest rate environment to issue $400 million of senior notes in May.
Turning to our operating segments; our US traditional business produced pre-tax operating income of $93 million compared to $96 million last year.
Premiums were up 4% this quarter; totaling $974 million.
Our large mortality block performed in line with expectations; however we did experience some normal adverse claims volatility in our group [LTD] business contributing to the slight decrease from an excellent 2010 result.
Our US Asset Intensive business reported another strong quarter with pre-tax operating income of $20 million up from $16 million a year ago.
We still expect an average run rate of $15 million or $16 million per quarter from this business.
This quarter we benefited primarily from better than expected spreads on our equity indexed annuity blocks.
Also our financial reinsurance business performed well this quarter with strong fee income.
That business reported $7 million in pre-tax operating income up from $4.4 million a year ago.
Turning now to Canada; our pre-tax operating income rose sharply to $42 million up 27% over a strong $33 million result last year.
Virtually everything went our way this quarter including a strong premium growth better than expected mortality experience and favorable currency fluctuations.
Premium rose 18% to $210 million for the quarter including 7% from favorable foreign currency movements.
Even without the help from the stronger Canadian dollar we are quite pleased with the 11% boost in original currency.
Recall that our Canadian operations had a very good 2010 and 2011 has continued that trend quite strong as well.
Our international operations had a difficult quarter in total driven primarily by poor mortality claims experienced in Australia and the UK which are our two largest international markets.
First in Asia-Pacific we reported pre-tax operating income of $8 million down significantly from $22 million in 2010.
Higher than expected mortality claims in Australia coupled with slightly adverse claims experience in Japan more than offset good results in Southeast Asia Korea and Taiwan.
Reported premiums were up 23% to $316 million for the quarter.
In local currencies premiums rose 8%.
We expect premiums to pick up in Asia during the second half of 2011.
Next our Europe and South Africa segment reported pre-tax operating income of $15 million for the current quarter down from $21 million last year reflecting adverse claim results in the UK of business that reported strong results in the second quarter last year.
The UK results were offset in part by good claims experience in other European markets in South Africa.
Premium growth was robust totaling $283 million up 35% quarter-over-quarter with strong contributions from the UK and from South Africa as well as from many of the other European markets.
In local currencies premiums were up a strong 23%.
We believe that higher than expected claims experience this quarter in our international operations reflect no more than short-term mortality.
We have seen in recent years such volatility tends to even out overtime.
The negative volatility this quarter was largely offset by our North American businesses; a diversification benefit we continue to see play out.
Overall we are pleased with the second quarter and look forward to the second half of 2011.
We continue to focus on officially managing our capital base and we look for opportunities to grow our global businesses.
We strive to exceed our clients’ expectations and we are well positioned to assist those clients in most of the major insurance markets around the globe.
Our in-force continues to grow; now topping $2.6 trillion of mortality risk in-force.
As a leader in the life insurance space we expect and continue our long run of delivering solid results and value to our shareholders.
We appreciate your support and interest in RGA and now we’ll take any questions you may have.
(Operator Instruction).
Our first question this morning will come from Jeffrey Schuman with KBW.
I was wondering if we could first talk a little bit more about capital.
I think earlier in the year you had said you probably wouldn’t buyback more stock this year.
But then as you noted you did do the $400 million debt raise which gives you some more flexibility.
So is share repurchase possibly back on the table or are you thinking more in terms of sort of looking for opportunistic situations or how should we think about capital for the balance of the year.
Jeff this is Jack.
I think it’s more the latter.
We certainly did raise an additional 400.
I look at that as 200 because we’ve really earmarked 200 to finance some $200 million of debt as coming to later this year.
But you could argue that we have roughly a $0.5 billion of redundant capital.
We would want some of that and I think we would want to maintain some levels of redundant capital at any point in time.
But it does give us a little bit more flexibility.
I will say we haven’t determined that because of that flexibility we want to return some later this year.
It’s more help for opportunities.
Now having said that if we get in to next year and we don’t see opportunities we will certainly look to make the capital base as efficient as possible and that could included return of capital or a number of other options.
One other area if I may.
In the US premium growth year-to-date is sort of 3%-4% a little bit below your target range for the year.
Can you give us any color there or thoughts about whether the 5 to 7 is still a good range.
5 to 7 is still an okay range for probably shooting towards the bottom of that.
There’s a couple of things that are affecting that Jeff.
First of all there has been an increase in lapse rate.
So we are seeing a little bit more lapse in policies.
I don’t know if that reflects the economic environment or what.
Whatever the cause though we have seen that over the last six to nine months or so.
Secondly some of the business that we have relates to taking pure mortality risks on some of the guaranteed minimum death benefits.
That premium of course because the stock market has come back has really dried up.
That’s where we just ensure the mortality risk one month at a time and not take the long term market risk at all.
But that business when the market goes down the amount of premium widens considerably and when the market goes back up it comes back in.
So we’ve seen that over the last that’s been a downward pressure on growth rates in the US for the last couple of years obviously as the markets come back.
Just a follow-up on the persistency is that related to age at all? Is it a function of the higher age market or where are you seeing them.
Just wondering if there’s been any change in sort of secondary market or anything there.
No it’s mostly on term business and it’s pretty broad based Jeff.
We’ll take the next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I had a couple of questions.
The first one is just on the disability block that experienced a high claims.
Could you give us an idea on whether this was one client spread across several clients and then just talk about your ability to be able to reprice this is this repriced annually or with less of a frequency.
Secondly on session rates; it seems like session rates in the US market continue to decline.
What your outlook is for growth in the US life insurance market over the next few years if this tends to change.
Jimmy on the LTD business it is priced annually it is one-year business.
It is coming from a number of clients.
But as a reinsurer we do take a fairly large chunks in individual cases and so this business tends to be quite volatile.
Since we have been incorporating the numbers from the group business in to our operations at the beginning of last year the business has performed very well better than expected over that time.
But it does bounce on a quarterly basis.
So this is potentially a volatile business on the LTD side but it does reprice each year.
Was this one client this quarter and was it a number of clients.
No no it’s a few individualized.
In terms of session rate declines we continue to see session rates declining.
We see one major company for example in the second quarter we are starting to retain significantly more of their business going forward.
The next question will come from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Just following up on the group disability question; we looked through the statutory filings and found that a few of your larger counterparties are StanCorp and [Met] and Delphi.
Just following up on Jimmy’s question is there anything specific there in this quarter.
Obviously we saw poor results from StanCorp last week but is it more than just a few individual lives is this more case specific or no.
No it’s not.
You are really talking about a few lives can swing this business from quarter-to-quarter and recoveries can swing this business from quarter-to-quarter in the other direction.
So there is really not any place that we are overly concerned about nor are we concerned about the profitability of that line as a whole.
As I said so far that line has performed excellently for us.
Can you give us an order of magnitude at least relative to your normal expectations for that book? In dollars how much of a factor was that this quarter.
John this is Jack.
You could size at it.
It’s not that significant about $5 million pre-tax fluctuations this quarter.
Just around the one year or the annual nature of these policies.
Is this more your ability to go and reprice the treaty with the counterparties or are you more dependent upon the primary insurer going out to the market and repricing their business.
A little of both.
It’s a typical group business; it can be placed by this carrier and renewed in the market place and then it’s got to be renewed with us and companies may decide from year-to-year to be reinsuring some or not reinsuring some as well.
So there is a couple of decision point in there but it clearly has a pricing characteristic every year.
Just totally separately; just looking out to the potential change in DAC accounting; do you guys have yet an estimate for what impact that that ultimate change in accounting would have on both your current DAC asset as well as future amortization.
John this is Jack again.
That analysis is underway.
We don’t yet have a number with an specificity that I’d be comfortable giving you at this point.
Okay.
Not even a ballparker like 2% to 5% of DAC or 5 to 10.
Not yet.
(Operator Instruction).
We’ll now hear from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
With regard to M&amp;A as a follow-up are you seeing much activity in the second half.
Do you expect to complete a block acquisition or do you think we’ll end up next year seeing something in terms of capital management.
That’s always hard to estimate Andrew.
We are always working on a few things and some of them are more like these and others.
I would say it’s sort of lukewarm at the moment as opposed to hot in terms of the environment.
But it’s lukewarm to sort of cold as well.
One of the things that we are excited about potentially is the future needs for reinsurance to help companies manage their capital with respect to Solvency II too in Europe.
So that may be still ways away before that heats up to the pitch that we hope it gets to ultimately.
So the Solvency II could be sizeable transactions then.
Well it could be depending on how things evolve.
But it certainly could be a situation where there are a lot of opportunities from companies who need to bolster their capital or do something with their own capital measures under Solvency II regime.
And then with the really sharp decrease in session rates over the last several years of course supply then has fallen.
Does that mean that the pricing or supply is pretty wide in terms of reinsurers? Does that mean that pricing is coming off amongst you and your competitors? Are you lowering your pricing? I would say no that you would expect that because supply is quite a bit greater than demand is so that you would see some price differential.
But it’s such a long term pricing business that nobody has become crazy at this point.
So we are not really seeing a lot of real pricing pressure.
That’s not to say that it is uncompetitive or that occasionally we don’t see something that we don’t understand.
But for the most part the market is behaving reasonably responsibly in our opinion.
Just in terms of the long-term disability block.
Could you just size the premium in-force and what the benefit ratio was in the quarter and where that might have been a year ago or last year since you don’t break that out in the supplement.
Andrew this is Jack.
The premium level annually is 35 million to 40 million.
I would say that the fluctuations from last year’s probably because we had some positive variance so to speak last year it’s probably in $8 million to $10 million range.
I don’t have the margin number handy here.
So that’s the variance over the last year quarter.
Andrew just to clarify that’s for the first six months versus the first six months last year.
Got it.
And then just lastly may be the same question around the UK what’s the premium volume on that book and may you could give us the variance or the benefit ratio on that business versus last year.
Andrew this is Jack again.
We don’t typically break it down by country level in terms of putting out margins and variances and so on.
I would say overall Andrew that the premium in the UK is something like $800 million give or take a range around that.
Now some of that is like business some is critical although some is longevity business these days.
The life is the biggest piece of that critical only [sizeable] and longevity is growing.
And the variance around the UK in terms of the impact there.
In terms of excess claims this quarter I would say we ended up somewhere around give or take $5 million to $10 million over this quarter and we had roughly the same amount going the opposite way last year in the second quarter.
I think is your question in comparison quarter-to-quarter.
Steven Schwartz from Raymond James has the next question.
Just real quickly the $5 million to $10 million was that for the company as a whole or was that for one of the segments.
That was the ESA segment.
Just the ESA segment just wanted to make sure.
If I can beat the DI horse some more.
Greig when you say it’s just a few lives are you talking about frequency here or are you talking about a couple of high insured lives talking about severity here.
You are talking about severity but remember that we are talking excess here so the amounts tends to be large on average and the reserves that you set up when there is the [disable] life are very high at the outset.
Now let me ask you this.
Most of the business that you do on the DI side is that normal flow business or are you primarily reinsuring close blocks of claims.
It’s primarily normal organic flow business.
Were these losses were they from the normal organic business or were they from the closed blocks.
Yeah they are from the normal organic business.
That’s what I wanted to know on that subject.
Looking out longer term I believe the Reliastar was a big player in stop loss because there have been a number of article studies talking about what could happen to the group business with small companies in particular putting their employees in to the exchanges.
Have you guys thought about that what your exposure might be? You mean the Stop-loss medical business.
That’s a proportion of our overall business from Reliastar.
That’s been performing very well.
Okay.
Any thought on what that might look like in the future or not yet.
No we’ve got a very credible and experience team that’s navigating all those waters.
Up there in Minneapolis they do a great job with this business and I think they will watching it very carefully and maneuvering as things evolve.
Two more quickies if I may.
Jack in the corporate and other we’ve got some volatility in other operating expense line shoots up from 13.6 million in the fourth quarter up to 17.6 down to 13 million.
Anything going on there? No.
I would advise you to take a look at the year-to-date run rate and that’s pretty much what our expectation will be.
We are going have some degree of volatility quarter-to-quarter.
Greig back to you.
Korea Japan new programs how is that coming along.
In terms of trying to fill off some of the holes in the pipeline I guess is your question.
Yeah.
Korea is coming on it’s a little slower than we expected in terms of materializing some of the premium through.
The results are strong this year so far but the premiums are a little bit lagging from what we expected.
They are up from last year though and we’ve seen a turnaround there.
In Japan we are still struggling a bit to fill up some of the pipeline because we had some really big deals come to an end and so it takes a while to pull that back up.
But we are actually quite encouraged with the way Japan is developing and the things happening in Japan for us.
We’ll now hear from Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Question on Asia-Pacific what gives you confidence that this is a short-term blip that we are going to get back up to normal profit ranges that you’ve seen in the past.
If I just look at the last year or so you’ve had two quarters in the $8 million pre-tax range two quarters mid 25 million to 27 million.
So how should we be thinking about that business and may be just discuss a little bit about what you saw in Australia and why you think it’s just a short-term issue.
Well that is something that we always worry about because whenever we do have a blip we do all the investigation we can possibly do to assure our selves that it can be a random event and there’s no systematic problem that we are uncovering or treating or something like that that we need to deal with.
Now we did have a problem with a particular Ltd situation last year in Australia and this what we’ve seen in the second quarter was individual claims coming from five or six different companies in large mouths and so we basically saw a lot of large claims hitting us at one particular time.
Now until you go down the road some ways you can’t put that in perspective exactly but this is a business that’s performed okay in the past.
Australian operation is a good operation that has had a long history of excellent results and it’s had frankly some difficult experience in the last 12 months or so in a number of different directions.
So they are working hard to over come this and we will hopefully see this all turnaround.
But we see no reason based on the claims where they came from how they are spread in the organization or in that one operation from different companies different years different treaties.
To conclude that its anything outside of the ordinary its not a statistically significant even in the sense that its well outside the range.
It’s very possibly and very likely actually just a fluctuation.
So it’s severity not frequency.
Did you say they were larger than expected claims? Yeah in this case it is.
Like I said they did have problem with one treaty that we talked about in the fourth quarter last year and that treaty runs through the end of this year.
There was an opportunity to increase pricing at the July first point which has happened.
It’s a group case and the client and ourselves are both all over it and trying to manage it as best we both can so that that particular case will see the end of at the end of the year.
Just on the lapse rate comment you made on term life in the US.
I don’t know if you can discuss it all the types of policies with these 10 year level term or is there a specific reason why you think you are seeing the increase in lapsation from a specific product type and also have you now fully reflected that in your DAC amortization or is that something you’ve going to have to watch in terms of looking at the captive DAC amortization as it relates to lapse rates.
First of all I don’t think it effects our DAC amortization at all.
Some of it is 10-year term policies and if the lapse rates are more than we expect after 10 years we would have all of our DAC amortization by then anyway.
So that’s not an issue.
The lapse rates are something we have been studying and have just produced quite a bit of information about.
I think it’s going to take some time to really understand exactly what’s driving it.
It’s not easy to see in the instant exactly all the things that are going on but it’s clear that lapse rate haven’t increased a bit.
We’ll take a follow-up question from John Nadel.
I just wanted to follow up on Solvency II.
Greig I definitely understand the theory that implementation of Solvency II could have a positive impact on opportunities for reinsurance activity for you guys to help out some of the companies implementing and where they might see opportunities to use reinsurance a bit more effectively to manage their capital.
But I guess I am also wondering on the flipside given your sizeable foreign operations if we need to think about the implementation of Solvency II for RGA as having any impact on your own capital levels and how much you will need to hold in your foreign operations should we think about that $500 million or roughly $500 million of excess capital may be a bit differently under that scenario.
No John we don’t really expect that we are going to have a big capital event with Solvency II.
We will have to comply with Solvency II and we’ll do so.
But for most of the types of business we have on our books at this point it’s not an event.
It’s my understanding may be you could give us your thoughts.
It seems that at the margin the biggest impact of Solvency II at least as it relates to insurance companies is it appears that it has more of an impact on the higher asset leverage type product like annuities etcetera.
Yes it does.
Long term guarantees and high asset amounts have a big capital charge potentially and it’s typically why our key business or risk business does have some long term guarantees in it but some of that’s overcome by being able to take some of the present value or future profits in to your picture too.
So the picture for us doesn’t look like we are going to be sticking any considerable amounts of capital in to over and above what we’ve already got.
It’s pretty high.
We already have a lot of capital allocated to European operations.
Just sort of a bigger picture may be follow-up thinking about premium growth levels just in relation to your original guidance for 2011.
I think we are looking at the US and Canada guidance 5% to 7% growth for the year.
Europe South Africa and Asia-Pacific 10% to 15% I think that’s ex-currency.
Where you stand year-to-date how you look at those targets what should we be expecting for 2011 and may be just a hint on whether it looks like a little bit longer term.
Yeah John the currency always gets in the mix as well and I won’t try to pull that out.
But as we sit here through six months we are very happy with where we are.
Our premiums and revenues are coming in a little stronger than our original plan going in to the year and our earnings are pretty much right on.
We expect it through six months and so we see no reason to adjust our thinking at all on average.
Now if you were to ask would we adjust individual good on the country level or product line level? Yes we would have some pluses and minuses but overall we would say we are doing exactly what we thought we would do through six months and that’s a happy place to be in some ways.
Related to that just sort of thinking about that organic growth rate I think on a consolidated basis will that put your premium growth rate at was about 8% to 10% if I recall.
And if we thought that 8% to 10% was a reasonable longer term view; under that scenario about what proportion of your annual earnings do you think would represent free cash flow? John this is Jack.
That’s always a hard one to answer because its affected so many different things.
But I think you could look at and I think we mentioned this before on a very general terms redundant or call it additional retained earnings that result in redundant capital in the neighborhood of a couple of 100 million per year.
Just so I understand that.
So a couple of $100 million of your annual earnings would be necessary to be retained to support that.
No that would be excess John.
That would be the excess.
So a couple of $100 million of your annual earnings could be deemed excess under that sort of organic environment.
That’s correct.
Very helpful.
We will now take a follow-up question from Andrew Kligerman.
Just a little color on the interest rate outlook; 10 year treasuries have come down 40 50 bps in the last quarter or so.
What are your thoughts as we move into the second half of the year and any material changes in investment income? Yeah Andrew we do expect because our reinvestment rate is lower than the portfolio yield.
We do expect to see a gradual continual decline under this rate scenario in investment income.
You probably noticed the effective rate was identical first quarter and second quarter.
But that’s affected by a number of different things including how much of the portfolio is rolling off and reinvestment opportunities and all that sort of things.
But if we take a step back.
We would expect to see still a continual not significant but gradual decline in an effective yield.
Any magnitude.
So was it always at 5.35 or something like that off the top of my head? I mean do you see like a 10 bps decline do you see 20 30 over the next 12 months? Where do you think that trend towards? If you wanted to annualize it I think 20 to 25 is not a bad estimate.
Over the course of the year? That’s right.
And then the pressure kind of remains at that level annually? Yes.
If we stay where we are.
Yeah in the current scenario that’s right.
I guess a new business for you over the last two years or so has been long term care.
Just kind of curious about how big the book has gotten and has it been performing well.
What are your thought about the long term care books that you have.
This is Greig Andrew.
The long term care business has been performing very well so far.
That doesn’t tell you so much because it’s still fairly early days but a little bit better than expected in terms of experience.
It’s about a $115 million of annual premium.
So out of our $7 billion of premium it’s a small percentage but it’s been doing fine.
You expect to see a lot of growth there or you are trying to not going to move very quickly.
We don’t see sky rocketing growth.
We do expect to see a little bit of growth.
This business sticks around so every year’s premium adds a little bit more to the book.
So from the base we started it will continue to grow at a nice percentage clip and it wouldn’t surprise me if we are adding $50 million or $75 million a year to that (inaudible) for a while.
We will take a follow-up question from Steven Schwartz.
Hey guys a couple; one more on the group DI.
I just want to make sure that I understand what’s going on here.
The primaries they do new business they get new clients.
They generally have a rate guarantee period two may be three year.
You are not tied in to that at all.
Is that correct? I think Steven that may depend on the treaties.
I don’t know exactly if in these particular cases that had some claims whether they were tied in for longer periods one year or two years.
But we have a contract that’s typically renewing each year with the underlying company and it’s not necessarily tied to their direct contract with the underlying groups.
Yeah that’s what I want to make sure about.
Just on the lapsation question.
Jack if you were in our shoes how would you track this.
Historically what I have done is on a quarterly basis is start with assumed business in force and in new business assumed you subtract from that the assumed business at the end of the quarter and that I thought gave me my lapse number.
Is that an inaccurate way of doing this? Steven that’s fairly general but yeah that’s in the ballpark.
Because I am wondering because it does not show and may be this is mix that you are really talking about.
But that would necessarily show an increase in lapsation six months or six months or even quarter-over-quarter.
There’s so much noise in that it is the problem Steven.
When we talk about that what we do is there’s true (inaudible) study which says lapse rates in your seven for ages x to y are supposed to be a certain level in there a little bit higher than that.
Okay.
So it sounds more like product specific mix.
That’s what I had thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Colin Devine with Citi.
Sort of more generic question.
Guys I assume you’ve certainly been approached many times to look at variable annuities living benefit blocks and also secondary guarantee universal life and I wondered what it is that you see in those products that has made you very reluctant to reinsure them.
Well Colin we did do some variable annuity reinsurance.
We got in to that we thought carefully picked what we thought were the best designed products from our perspective build the capabilities to manage the hedging required and so forth and then the financial crisis hit and there we spent a lot of time discussing variable annuity results which were only a minor part of our business.
So we decided to cool that for a while.
We basically have not done any more variable annuities and those treaties are not active at the moment.
We are still managing the in-force business and actually they are performing very well contract to date.
They are in good shape.
But its not impossible that we would look at variable annuity sometime in the future and we continue to keep our eyes open for the right opportunities and right situation.
I guess we always want to try to find ways to help our customers manage any risks or any potential capital needs or other structural needs that they have that can be approached by reinsurance.
So something like secondary guarantee UL for example we have wanted to find a way to get comfortable with but we’ve never really gotten comfortable with the level of risk in those products.
We reinsure that mortality straight mortality out of them quite a bit; by taking the actual guarantee risk is something we haven’t gotten comfortable enough to do yet.
That’s sort of what I am trying to get at.
So it’s the guarantee risk there that from your perspective has clearly been a fundamental issue and when you look at that in capital or reserve requirement.
Is that guarantee risk is it making you then uncomfortable with what current capital requirements are for that products.
And then just to clarify I was aware you’ve done some [V8] stuff in the past.
It wasn’t clear to me; I thought that was sort of older vintage stuff that didn’t have some of the more generous features that got added in to products in the later sort of go-go years.
No I think it was some of the more recent products right towards the end but some of the less adventurous of those selectively going with situations that were better for us.
Like I said I think if we were to take a look at the performance of that block contract to date we’d be ahead of the game.
But on the secondary guarantees we just have never gotten comfortable that the risks were adequately priced.
Maybe I will put you on the spot.
Do you think the AXXX reserving levels are adequate? Well I guess what I am saying is there is enough uncertainty around them that they might require a little bit more capital than the current levels are.
It’s clearly not the same as XXX where you have an absolutely clear redundant reserve situation on XXX.
On AXXX you might have a redundant reserve or you might no in our opinion.
And with no questions remaining gentlemen I will turn the call back to you.
Well thanks to everyone who joined us this morning.
To the extent you have any other issues or questions feel free to call us here in St.
Louis and with we’ll end the second quarter conference call.
Thanks again.
Once again this does conclude today’s conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America’s Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay thank you.
Good morning and welcome to RGA’s third quarter 2011 conference call.
Greig Woodring our CEO is with us today.
I’ll turn the call over to Greg after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greg’s prepared remarks we’ll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected result is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pretax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for the various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I’ll turn it over to Greig for his comments.
Thank you Jack and good morning to everyone.
Overall claims experience was slightly higher than we expected this quarter but well within a standard deviation.
And weak equity markets and low interest environment also adversely affected our Asset Intensive business.
Like most quarters underwriting results were mixed by segment.
Good results in Asia Pacific and Canada were offset by weak claims experience in our US and Europe and South Africa segments.
Operating income was a $152 million or $2.04 up from last year’s $128 million or $1.72 per share.
Current quarter results included tax benefit associated with the impact of previously enacted tax rate reductions and deferred tax liabilities in Canada amounting to $33 million or $0.44 per share.
Statutory tax rates both at the federal and provincial had been lowered and the adjustment rates and it relates to applying the lower tax rates to the related deferred tax liability on the balance sheet.
Since we’ve built up a sizable deferred tax liability in Canada over time the adjustments reflect the lower enacted rates was reasonably significant.
Foreign currency fluctuations helped operating income by $4.5 million or about $0.06 per share.
Annualized operating ROE was 14% for the quarter and 13% over the last 12 months.
Consolidated net income totaled a $147 million or $1.98 up from a $128 million or $1.72 per share last year.
Reported premiums were $1.8 billion up 8% quarter-over-quarter.
The third quarter of 2010 included a one-time annuity premium.
Ignoring that the premiums increased about 7% in original currencies.
Investment income was off 7% this quarter totaling $268 million with the yield of 5.29% which is down 37 basis points from last year’s third quarter.
Contributing to this decline in investment income was a net $38 million decrease in the fair value of option contracts supporting equity-indexed annuities.
Excluding those contracts investment income was up 6% quarter-over-quarter despite the decline in yield.
Our net unrealized gain position grew to $1.1 billion an increase of 46% since the second quarter adding $4.81 to book value per share which is now 77.29.
Excluding AOIC book value per share is $59.48.
Its current interest rate environment continues to put downward pressure on our overall portfolio yield as we invest new money at lower rates.
Our third quarter yield was 5.29% compared to 5.66% last year as we said and 5.35% in the second quarter of this year.
And while this trend adversely affects our investment income we do not feel that it will force us to write-down deferred acquisition costs or to bolster reserves or capital even if low interest rates persist for five years or longer.
RGA’s results continue to be primarily driven by our ability to price mortality and morbidity risks.
While we closely manage market risk such as interest rates and equity markets they are secondary to mortality risk for our overall performance and long-term outlook.
Regarding the new accounting guidance and deferred acquisition cost which will take effect early next year we expect to reduce capital by about 6% to 9% excluding AOIC.
Further we project operating income to be adversely affected by 6% to 10% in 2012.
This is a noneconomic accounting change that simply changes the timing of expense recognition for certain acquisition costs.
The impact to income reflects our relatively higher organic growth in recent years and the long amortization periods for our mortality business.
Turning to segment results our US Traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $83 compared to a $101 million last year.
Mortality experience was adverse by less than a 0.5% this quarter while prior year quarter was in line with expectations.
Premiums were up 4% this year and totaled $971 million.
Our Asset Intensive business in the US results were hampered by poor performance in the equity markets during the quarter and reported pre-tax operating income of $1 million down from $14 million a year-ago.
Despite the poor results this quarter this business has done well on a year-to-date basis.
Our Financial Reinsurance business continued to grow this quarter as it has all year reflecting strong fee income.
This business added about $6 million to pre-tax operating income up from $4 million a year-ago.
Turning to Canada pre-tax operating income $36 million up 28% over last year’s result of $28 million.
Both results were very good and reflects favorable mortality experience in each period.
Premiums totaled a $186 million this quarter a decrease of 10% from last year’s $206 million which included a one-time bump of $43 million from the new longevity transaction.
Premiums were up 14% excluding that transaction.
Favorable foreign currency movements added up about 5% to the current quarter growth.
Turning to our international operations first in Asia Pacific pre-tax operating income increased 15 percent to $31 million compared with $27 million last year.
The results in Japan Hong Kong and Southeast Asia lead the segment.
Premiums rose 20% to $328 million with significant help from weaker US dollar.
In local currencies premiums were up 7%.
Year-to-date premiums are up about 5%.
Next our Europe &amp; South Africa segment reported pre-tax operating income of $14 million for the current quarter down from $16 million last year reflecting adverse claim results in several European markets.
Results in the UK operations the segment's largest were however in line with expectations this quarter.
Premiums were up 23% to $286 million compared with $233 million last year.
Ignoring the lift from currency fluctuations premiums rose 19% a strong result.
Year-to-date premiums are up 21% excluding currency well ahead of our expectations.
In summary ignoring this Canadian tax benefit our third quarter results came in below our expectations with some mixed underwriting results and market driven adverse results in our Asset Intensive business.
Nonetheless we’re pleased once again with the relatively strong operating ROE along with the life insurance industry we had faced challenges associated with stock market volatility and low interest rates.
However in our initial life reinsurance our results should continue to be more stable due to our lower asset leverage and our diminished reliance on investment performance to generate profits.
We have persevered through weak macro environments in the past and are confident that we will successfully navigate through the current conditions.
We repurchased about 838 shares of common stock during the quarter for $43.1 million.
RGA remains focused on delivering consistent returns for our shareholders along with strong capitalization and market positions across the globe.
We appreciate your support and your interest in RGA.
And now we’ll take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll take our first question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James and Associates.
Hi good morning everybody.
A few – I want to stick to this and then I’ll get back in the queue for later.
But I want to stick with corporate and other right now.
A couple of issues with regards to tax rate.
Generally speaking that has been – excluding the Canadian thing obviously that has been lower in the third quarter.
I think that’s a seasonal thing surrounding FIN 48 if I remember correctly – and maybe I’ve got this backwards – and then interest expense in corporate and other as well has been historically low I think that has to do with some tax audits.
Maybe we can talk about why didn’t happen in the quarter.
Yes Steven this is Jack.
You were right.
If you went back historically normally we would clear a tax year in the third quarter and I’m not talking about last year I’m talking about the years prior to that.
Right.
Last year was the first quarter I think if I remember correctly.
Yes well a couple of things happened last year.
But if you want prior to last year we would typically clear in the third quarter.
Last year we did – we actually cleared a return in the fourth quarter so you had some FIN 48 impact in the fourth quarter.
I think when you referenced the first quarter we had a tax reserve adjustment that did have some impact on the overall interest expense that we had built up there.
So I think that maybe creating a little bit of an anomaly that you’re seeing there.
But – Okay.
We – in the third quarter of this year we did not reflect any adjustment vis-à-vis FIN 48.
There is a reasonable likelihood that we will have an adjustment in the fourth quarter.
It’s not a shortage it just depends on where we are with the IRS in terms of clearing returns.
But to date this year we haven’t cleared any so we haven’t had the benefit of releasing any interest expense.
Okay all right.
I will get back in the queue.
And from KBW we’ll go next to Jeffrey Schuman.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I’ll just hit a couple of items and get back in as well.
First of all on Asset Intensive I guess historically the correlation between those results in the market hasn’t been that clear.
So certainly last year I think second quarter was a down equity market quarter but the unit earned pretty well.
So can you give us a little more perspective on why earnings were so sensitive to the market in the quarter? And then the other question is just wondering your thought process to pull the trigger in share repurchase.
I think on the second quarter call you were still kind of formulating your capital plans and I was just wondering sort of how you made a decision to start buying back here.
Thanks.
Jeff this is Jack.
In terms of Asset Intensive I think if you look back and I don’t recall exactly the results second quarter of last year.
But if you look back – particularly if you go back 2.5 years or so when the market was really in an upheaval you saw some fairly negative operating results on that unit.
So there was some degree of correlation it’s not perfect by any stretch.
But you did see some of the same at least directional sort of movements in our operating earnings that you saw this year.
I’m referring back to the third and fourth quarters of ’08 in that time period.
Regarding the buyback we had an existing authorization outstanding for years that when our stock traded off fairly dramatically than the August time period we thought “Well let’s take advantage of that authorization.” We didn’t go beyond that so we ended up buying back roughly $43 million worth of stock get roughly – right around $15 a share or so.
We would not have anticipated that even six months ago.
We didn’t anticipate the trade-off in the stock so – and really planned to take advantage opportunistically of many sort of downward pressure on the stock but we did in the quarter and we used up the remaining authorization that had been outstanding.
Thank you.
So where do you go from here? Do you seek any authorization or where will you go from here? It’s not particularly clear.
We do deliberate in terms of an additional authorization.
But I can’t figure and tell you that we are going to buyback stock if it trades at X rate.
We just haven’t made that deliberation.
We will – if we think it’s an opportunistic time we’ll go back to our Board and have that discussion.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Jack.
And we’ll go next to Jimmy Bowler with JP Morgan.
Hi thanks.
I had a question first on just the reasons – if you could just give us some insight into the reasons for the significant earnings hit because of the new DAC rules I think you mentioned the high growth.
But it doesn’t seems like even based on you’re your growth has seen – has been in the past few years that the EPS hedge just seems a little bit too large but maybe there is VOBA there is something else.
And the other question that I had was just on the Asia business.
Your margins you mentioned were low in Australia.
I was wondering if that was disability claims or was that related to life insurance claims.
And then just on your plans related to – like just on capital management you mentioned you would evaluate buybacks sometime but later on – but what do you see in terms of the deal environment out there and whether there are opportunities to acquire – potentially acquire blocks of business?  Yes Jimmy let me – this is Jack let me take the comment on DAC.
We go and we have been going through a modeling process for sometime now and commiserating with our auditors to make sure that we haven’t missed anything.
The result was pretty much as we expected.
So maybe our investors – I got to tell you it’s hard to tell what the expectation is unless you really dig into the DAC and what we have been capitalizing.
But if you think in terms of – we have been building out an international operation and there has been some expense involved there some of which was variable and we have been DAC-ing and the type of costs that will be difficult to DAC if they’re not related to success efforts going forward.
So – and I guess my point is we pretty much ended up where we expected to be in terms of – we expect that sort of a hit to capital and ongoing earnings primarily because of the relatively higher growth rates particularly in the international segment over the last six years eight years 10 years.
Okay.
In terms of Australia Jimmy the experience was less than expected this quarter.
Mostly or maybe completely a variance due to the individual lump sum claims not particularly the disability claims.
We had one disability account that’s pretty – tracking pretty much along the way we expected it to and we are now off of that risk and it should be winding down over the future although that will happen slowly.
But Australia was slightly below what we expected for the year – for the quarter.
In terms of the deal environment it seems to be heating up a bit.
There seems to be a little bit more discussion right now but don’t know whether that’s going to produce substantial transactions or whether that’s just discussion at this stage.
But we’re very active right now.
And the US margins being a little weaker was that life claims or disability claims? Because I think second quarter your disability claims in the US elevated as well.
Yes the – on the group – the group business was close to expected just a little bit worse after a good year last year.
In the US regular mortality business mortality was off a bit as well but actually we were affected more by lapse rates which I think I had mentioned in the past lapse rates and accounting adjustments due to reporting in this quarter than we were by strictly speaking mortality.
Mortality was off $3 million $4 million out of 600 plus.
Okay thanks.
And our next question comes from Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thanks good morning.
Legal &amp; General put out a press release this morning saying that they had entered into a 390-million pound longevity transaction with RGA.
I was wondering if you guys could comment on that.
No.
I actually haven’t even seen that press release.
We work on a number of transactions with companies in the UK it’s a very active longevity market and have done a number of those transaction over time.
Typically what we do is a longevity swap where we exchange actual and expected flows as opposed to taking on assets and asset risk.
So it’s a continuation of something we’ve been working on for a number of years and have us – a significant part of our UK operation is longevity business these days.
You consider that type of size to be a material transaction or is this kind of just in the course of normal business? That’s a fairly large one.
We’ve had – we’ve had a number of transactions on the longevity front that tend to be quite chunky though.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to follow-up on the DAC accounting impact.
I was also pretty surprised with the 6% to 10%.
And I guess the way I was looking at it your DAC capitalization and amortization kind of tends to run at a fairly similar amount so I would have expected both to be reduced by around the same 10% to 15% that you reduced DAC and not produce that big of an impact.
So am I looking at that wrong or how should I think about that?  Well this is Jack.
It’s a little difficult to look at it that way because a lot depends on the relative extent to which you’re growing parts of the operation that maybe a little more expense intensive than others.
So if you take a step back and just look at very macro sort of ratios like that you don’t always get the right answer.
Okay thank you.
And from Credit Suisse we’ll go next to Thomas Gallagher.
Hi.
I guess the first is also on the DAC and then just one on your comment on interest rates and how it won’t be a balance sheet impact for five years and more.
Just on the new DAC rules and I totally appreciate your comment that it’s noneconomic noncash but how do you all evaluate the economics of your business? The only financials that we can see is GAAP and I recognize that you have other sets of financials but we don’t have access to most of those in terms of statutory.
So anyway can you help us think about how you would really evaluate your business and the economics if GAAP isn’t the right way to do it or maybe it’s modified GAAP? That’s my first question.
We do look at GAAP and that’s where we tend to focus.
We also internally have been creating embedded value statements for sometime.
As we get those more stable perhaps we’ll share some of those in the future.
Statutory is not something we manage to very – very much at all.
And so in terms of the way you evaluate capital you’re using GAAP as your sort of evaluation of capital adequacy as it relates to the financial statements?  Yes.
So then I guess then the impact of book value – I guess it’s just hard to get my head around how this is a noneconomic event if this is a 6% to 9% adjustment to what you’re using as book value from a capital adequacy standpoint.
Tom you’re point is well taken.
Noneconomic can mean a lot of different things.
I think if you look purely a cash flow of this noneconomic – now on the other hand if your economic definition includes various ways to measure result including US GAAP then it’s hard to say it’s completely noneconomic.
Noneconomic really relates to just discounting cash flows in which case this doesn’t have any influence at all.
At the end of a period of time we’ll be in the same place we would have been otherwise is I guess the way to put it.
Yes and that was my follow-up too.
Just when understanding that this is a change in timing and not ultimate outcome what would the crossover be if the initial implementation reduces book value by 6 to 9 and earnings by 6% to 10%? Is there a crossover period where we can think about earnings actually increasing over prior estimates is it five years out in the future or can you help us think about the timing a little bit? Yes.
There is but it’s very influenced by growth rates going forward.
So I will say this we’re in a very long-term business.
So if you just presume no dramatic changes in growth rates it takes a period of years before we hit a crossover point – at least eight to 10 years.
Got it okay.
Yes just – and that’s just due to the long-term nature in most of your contracts?  That’s right.
Okay.
And then just last question if I could on the interest rates.
Can you comment a little bit about if the interest rates remain where they are at today why there wouldn’t be any impact to DAC nor reserves? Is that really because I’m thinking that you’ve a lot of recurring cash flows year and long duration guarantee products? Is that – is that more? And so in some ways on the recurring premium that you’re getting in the door today unless you have an ability to reprice or reset some assumptions within the product itself I would imagine there is going to be some level of margin pressure.
Is it that you have enough cushion today or is it really just at the end of the day mortality margin is the vast bulk of your ultimate margin and interest margins are just not that relevant? Yes.
Tom it’s really both of those two latter points.
The margin really relates primarily to mortality reserves that we setup which aren’t really influenced to any meaningful degree just by interest rates going forward.
So if you think of our book of business primarily a big lump of mortality business under FAD 60 guidelines it would take a pretty dramatic sort of influences in terms of investment yields before we would have a capital or reserve/DAC sort of consideration in terms of lighting down DAC for instance.
Okay.
I got it.
Thanks.
And we’ll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning everybody.
I’ve got a couple of questions.
Greig on the US mortality or in the US Traditional business I guess you mentioned mortality was only a $4 million shortfall in the quarter but that lapse rates and timing of reporting I guess had an impact.
Can you help us understand what that means the lapse rate issue and the timing of report? I mean how – can you help us understand what that is quantify it maybe? Yes.
And John they weren’t real big affects either.
I think the lapse affect was another $5 million or $6 million in the quarter say.
I’m doing that from memory so don’t hold me for that but it’s about that order of magnitude.
And there was some reporting noise which there is always reporting cleanup or uncertainty that happens in a quarter it goes both ways.
So this quarter was the wrong way.
The lapses have been up in our book for about the last 18 months and we’ve seen sort of an increase in lapses in the industry that are reflected in our book and that’s affected us.
There is some VOBA on some of the old Allianz business too.
And when one of those particular policies that has some VOBA attached to it lapses; there is a write-off of that.
So lapses kind of affect us by both decreasing premiums decreasing profits and potentially some write-off of VOBA from time-to-time.
And this quarter was a quarter where the affects of that combined with administration exceeded the mortality effect.
Okay.
So then – in the lapse – the lapse rate issue is I imagine it’s something that’s probably more economically sensitive and we might expect that to continue.
Well we don’t know.
It’s steamed to jump up for a while there.
It could be that it could also be some financed business that is just no longer needed.
It’s hard to say this early in the game.
But it’s clear that lapse rates have moved up from our last study to the one before that.
Okay.
And then on the DAC accounting item just to comeback maybe – because there is a lot of noise in your GAAP statements around DAC particularly from the movements of the embedded value – I’m sorry the embedded derivative items in the Asset Intensive segment.
Can you give us a sense if you stripped out Asset Intensive what level of capitalized costs and what level of DAC amortization should we be basing our adjustments off of? John this is Jack.
That’s a hard one to answer when you say basing your adjustments.
Well in terms of writing off existing DAC is one thing.
Where should we be focused? I guess this is more of a modeling type question.
But where should we be focused on the lower DAC amortization going forward but the higher level of non-deferrable expenses? I assume from your commentary that we should be focusing on that on the non-US segments.
But if you could just help us on that that would be great.
Yes I’m not sure I can break it down.
I’m not sure we’re prepared to break it down in terms of the operating segments.
I will say that the more dramatic effect will be on the international segments for the reasons that earlier just that we were relatively speaking capitalizing more cost in the DAC balance than we would for instance in the broader mortality block in the US because the expense was lower in the US.
I would say facultative business will have a higher effect and I would also – but I wouldn’t expect that the Asset Intensive business would be unduly bad.
Yes I was going to mention that.
You should – essentially the DAC adjustments we’re talking about are not related to the Asset Intensive business.
I wouldn’t.
Yes.
No I assumed that to be the case that’s why I was trying to strip that out because that line item tends to move so much quarter-to-quarter based on the volatility of the markets.
Yes that’s right.
That’s right.
Okay.
And then just two more quick ones.
Last quarter you guys said that to the extent that M&amp;A or deal activity by this year-end came in lower than your expectations they didn’t really materialize but you would revisit capital management buybacks in early 2012.
Is that something you still stick by? Yes.
I mean John we continually look at capital efficiency.
But the comment was if we go several quarters and which would take us into 2012 and just haven’t seen the opportunity to meaningfully deploy redundant capital well then it’s a much higher likelihood you’ll see some action early in 2012 on that front.
Well just as a follow-up for instance this legal and general deal that was announced this morning is this more of a financial reinsurance transaction no balance sheet real capital to put up or is this something that we ought to think about is using up capital? No.
That will be a real deal but it won’t use up much capital.
Okay.
And then finally just on the interest rates.
Your commentary on rates definitely indicates that sustained low rates is really not a meaningful concern and is certainly not a concern regarding the balance sheet.
Is there something that you would say Greig is unique about RGA in this regard or is this commentary about no real DAC impact no real reserve impact even looking out over a period of five years is that something we should be extrapolating to the other life insurers as well to the primary companies or is there a particular product line that you guys don’t participate in that you would expect to see some pressure? Can you give us some help there? The reason I think that we’re probably in better shape first of all is this big block of mortality business where we collect one year’s premium at a time.
The contribution of interest on that business is a lot less than a typical level premium either term or whole life policy especially a whole life term policy.
So we don’t build up the assets and don’t have the asset leverage that other companies have.
And so that’s I think the main difference we see.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
And from UBS Securities we’ll go next to Andrew Kligerman.
Hi good morning.
I just first last quarter excess capital was at roughly $0.5 billion.
I assume that’s about the same.
There were no major movements there.
Yes.
Andrew this is Jack.
That’s right.
It’s roughly $0.5 billion.
Okay.
And then Greig you mentioned that M&amp;A was heating up.
Maybe you could elaborate a bit more on what type of M&amp;A is heating up what are you interested in are you looking to buy a small reinsured do you want to assume a block of reinsurance from another reinsurer or is it just blocks of traditional mortality from primary reinsurers.
What particularly is heating up and what are you interested in? Yes.
For the most part Andrew it’s blocks of business from direct life insurance companies; they maybe mortality based they maybe other types of business.
But the – a level of discussion seems to be on the uptick a bit.
Got it.
And what other types aside from mortality would you have an interest in? What other lines? Well we would – we would be interested in various different annuity blocks and other business like that is very difficult to price in this environment also it’s very difficult to close transactions.
We’ve seen a lot of interest in Europe on different things that would help free up solvency to capital.
So we’re starting to see the discussions happening that we thought might happen in that regard.
And then when you said annuities variable annuities would that be included? No no we’re not looking at any variable annuity blocks right now.
Got it.
And then last quarter I think you had a negative – $8 million to $10 million negative variance on the long-term disability and you mentioned a little earlier that the claims were in line with expectations.
Maybe a little color on the expectations.
Are you kind of – has your expectations for long-term disability kind of gone up in terms of losses relative to where you would have thought a year or two ago so that would be in line with expectations and what’s your sense on that line going forward has it stabilized? That business – this is on the group side and particularly in the US bend and to some extent in Australia.
But in fact that business is historically quite a volatile it does go up and down.
And a few large claims can swing in.
The results this quarter were – okay I don’t mean to say that everything is back to completely great for that business but it was extremely good last year and a bit to more normalized too even a little bit high through parts of this year.
This quarter was more in line with averages.
So I don’t think we’ve changed our assessment but we do recognize that this business does show characteristics of that volatility.
Are you getting a sense that the primary companies have repriced a lot of it so far? Don’t know that actually Andrew.
I think that these tend to be one year at a time contracts.
We look at – we look at the group’s – when we price the groups we look at the experience and set our own price on what we think is the appropriate risk we’re taking.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll take a follow-up from Steven Schwartz.
Hi.
Okay I’ve got some more now.
First I wanted – a couple of follow-ups if I may.
On the lapsation Greig is the triple X business is that maybe what is driving this that it’s coming off? Yes.
To some extent it is on the term business.
But it’s across the board though.
Okay.
And then Jack this is follow-up to the question with regarding to interest rates and the lack of sensitivity is basically reflecting the fact that your business is primarily written on a YRT basis.
Yes that has a lot to do with it.
That’s right.
Okay.
So then if I can go on to some of my own now; Canada results in Canada looked weird to me particularly with regards to how you explained it.
I did notice – well my first question is did the in-force in Canada in the Canadian Dollars go down from the second quarter? It looks like it to me adjusted.
Steven this is Jack.
It may have.
I’m just going from memory here.
That would surprise me if it did Steven.
Okay.
Maybe I’ll –  That’s something we focus a lot on volume in-force.
Okay.
Maybe I’ll revisit with John.
Just following up on in Canada two things you sighted good mortality.
But if you take a look at the loss ratios that you put out between critical illness and traditional mortality the traditional mortality that ratio looked actually high relative to the past eight quarters to me towards the higher end of that.
So I kind of wonder where we see the good mortality coming out.
And then how I see the good results is you had a very very large uptick in net investment income from the second quarter I think from the mid-40s – if I remember correctly $40 million to like $52 million or something like that so I’m just – maybe you can explain that in the context of your mortality statements.
Steven on Canada we have premiums that last for a long time lapse rates that are extremely low.
And you do buildup substantial amount of assets in Canada.
Okay.
That is one part of our operation that builds up assets.
You would expect over time the loss ratio.
So if you’re just calculating claims to premiums or claims and reserve increases to premium to drift higher and higher and higher as investment income becomes more of the funding of the claims that you pay and the profits that you bring to the bottom line.
And so I would expect that is harder to look at our loss ratio and develop meaning out of it then the US’s by quite a bit.
And I would expect to drift upward.
What I can tell you is that we understand what price in mortality was and we understand what we expect mortality to be given where it’s drifted over time.
And this quarter we were a couple of million dollars better than expect on that mortality side.
Okay.
I understand I understand where you’re going with that this isn’t necessarily a YRT type of business.
But I mean I am looking at a 15% a – somewhere around a 15% increase in investment income between these third quarter and the second quarter.
Yes Steven I’m sorry.
I mean it did go up to $52 million.
And a lot of that relates to the amount of capital associated with that business and that’s how we allocate investment income so.
Okay.
So there was more capital allocated in the quarter.
That’s right.
Okay.
That makes sense to me.
And then if I may the collateral finance I guess repurchased for a lack of a better term was that scheduled was that something voluntarily that you saw an opportunity to do is that used capital.
How do we think about that and maybe what you do going forward? Yes that’s – I call it opportunistic.
In that collateral finance those notes outstanding or structured notes that we saw an opportunity to take them and buy them back in one of our operating companies so that we still we can use them in terms of collateralization.
But essentially we’ve removed them from the balance sheet.
We saw an opportunity to buy those back at roughly $0.65 $0.66 on $1.
So the longer-term economics were very attractive and we bought those back in.
Now I think to your latter point would we expect to continue to do that? We’ve almost reached our limit in terms of the amount we would be comfortable buying back without going through it a full tender.
So it’s – unless we dramatically change course I wouldn’t expect to see us buyback any meaningful and additional amounts.
And the accounting would suggest that that would have no affect on capital? That’s right.
Okay all right.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll go next to a follow-up from Jeffrey Schuman.
Thank you.
I want to come back first to the interest rate issue.
In your scenario you do talk about 50 basis points of ROE compression over five years and I think that was probably a comforting result relative to what some people had feared.
But I was wondering if you could talk a little bit what drives it – about what drives that.
Is that driven more by compression in the legacy business or is that more of a reflection of layering in lower new business returns? I guess it’s both if I understand – this is Jack – if I understand your question.
Certainly we have an investment portfolio that’s rolling off over a duration of seven or eight somewhere in there so that the modeling reflects that those funds being reinvested.
There is new money coming in associated with a new business production so we would contemplate – of course we would price for that but we would contemplate lower new money rate on those funds coming in.
So I’m – have I answered your question or – Well I think part of what I’m getting at is what new business returns looks like today.
I mean we’ve established that YRT is not amongst the most investment income sensitive businesses.
But I mean are you repricing and if you don’t reprice what kind of returns are you getting on a lot of your new business today? Well as we price new business we certainly take – we certainly reflect our expectation of investment yields and we kind of anchor them at current new money rates.
Though we would certainly consider the investment income environment the investment yield environment as we price any new business [inaudible].
Okay.
So that is factored in okay.
And then the other thing I wanted to come back to you again was the Asset Intensive.
To what extent were lower earnings this quarter was driven by variable annuities versus equity indexed? I guess I’m used to thinking of equity indexed business often being pretty tightly hedged and not seeing – at least for the company seeing is a lot of pressure that comes through in a quarter like this.
Was it more the VA and more the equity indexed?  It was more the VA but probably in terms of the shortfall versus expectation I think two-thirds of it related to VA and a third related to EIAs or equity-indexed annuities.
Okay.
And then on the – to the extent that the VAs – just trying to understand kind of the basic factors here I mean two – is the big piece which is just fee leverage or is it DAC unlocking or some reserve adjustments or what kind of hit? Yes DAC unlocking certainly moved both the performance on the EIAs as well as the VAs.
Okay.
So that was a material factor.
Okay thanks Jack.
And we’ll take a follow-up question from Thomas Gallagher.
Hi.
Just a follow-up on the YRT question.
Can you give a sense for how much of your business can be repriced annually on the life insurance side versus something where you blocked in pricing for a longer period of time? Just a rough split of that would be helpful.
Well Tom almost none of our business can be repriced.
The group business can be that’s a small piece of our business at this stage.
The mortality business for the most part is locked in.
Yes.
Tom our comments related to pricing on new business not repricing existing business.
So in terms of the recurring premium that comes in that can’t be repriced.
Got it okay.
So you’re just looking at the margin potentially having a lot of room to go down over the next decade or so if interest rates remain low as opposed to being able to do anything on the pricing side.
On the existing – Correct.
Clearly if interest rates go down we make less money.
But the fact that we get a new premium each year and that’s sufficient to pay claims means that the investment component of our profit is quite a bit less than other businesses in that YRT business.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thanks.
I had a follow-up on the interest rate commentary.
I just wanted to clarify one thing.
In the release you talked about a 15 to 20 bp decline in 2012 and 50 bp decline in 2016.
And I interpreted that to be the decline in your portfolio yield.
Am I incorrect or does that relate to the ROE or to the portfolio yield? That relates to ROE.
Okay.
I guess I just wanted to follow-up on that because it seems a little I guess inconsistent with some previous statements you’ve made where I think you said last year that low rates might cause us $0.20 to $0.25 per share impact on EPS which I think is around 3% or so of EPS.
15 bps to 20 bps of ROE would only translate into more like a 1% of EPS.
I’m just trying to reconcile those two comments.
No your point is accurate in that.
And a lot relates to how the portfolio is running off that we had a little more dramatic impact over the last – I think a last couple of years.
And it’s starting to moderate somewhat as you reach as the new money rate goes down.
But it should reach at some point some degree of equilibrium.
So I would say at last year when we made that comment we were coaching that in terms of if the interest rates stay where they are we would see our portfolio yield come down and affect us by that amount.
What’s happened of course is that interest rates have come down further since then and quite dramatically even.
So it’s more than $0.20 impact this year.
Okay.
I just wanted to clarify that.
So you’re saying the EPS impact would be more than $0.20 to $0.25 in – I’m saying it has been in the last year.
It has been in the last year but there is a point at which – and what we’re saying when we do this is is – going forward is saying if interest rates stay low for a long time what does it do.
But we’re not saying they go down to zero either.
If it goes down to – if interest rates go down to zero the affect would be less.
Okay thanks.
And we’ll take a follow-up from John Nadel.
Hi thanks for the follow-up.
Just a couple of quick items.
With the Canadian tax rate change here what should we be thinking about in terms of your consolidated tax rate going forward? John this is Jack.
The effective rate going forward is only modestly affected because we’re talking about solely interest rates changes or I’m sorry tax rate changes in Canada.
So it probably carves – I try to look at it this way but – Well maybe we can think about it in terms of what did the Canadian tax rate go from to.
Well it dropped about four points – 4 percentage points.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then what – so your portfolio yield in 3Q is 5.29% where is the new money yields in the third quarter? Yes considerably lower than that.
Well I guess I’m trying to understand like how far below that though because we all focus on the 10 year you’re probably investing further out on the curve and my suspicion is you’re buying just about anything but treasuries right now.
So can you give us a sense for where your new money yield was during the quarter?  Yes.
I’d say on average it’s around 4.25%.
Okay.
So we’ve still got – to the extent that nothing changed forever we’ve got a 100 basis points of downside to your portfolio yield? Okay.
That’s right that’s right.
Okay.
And where is the offsets to that? I mean at what point – at what point do you say to yourself we need – we need to alter our expense load we need to – we need to do some things differently to combat that whether – obviously I would expect you to reflect that in pricing your new business.
But your new business is a percentage of – your in-force is obviously small.
What do we do with the operations?  No that’s a good point.
I mean obviously pricing is affected.
But also we look at expense efficiencies and we do that now and we’ll – there will be even more pressure if we’re on a prolonged low investment yield environment because just to make the economics of the business where you’d have to look long and hard at the efficiency of the operation.
That’s what we would do.
Is there a particular business that you emphasize in a 4.25% new money rate environment or a particular business that you completely deemphasize in that type of an environment? It happens by default a lot of times.
Like I said annuity blocks business are very tough to price right now because we reflect for an interest rates.
And YRT business on the other hand looks pretty good.
Okay.
And then the last one for you is just a sizeable net unrealized gain on the investment portfolio I don’t expect you’d necessarily be working to monetize any of those gains but also a very sizeable foreign exchange gain and I’m wondering if there any strategies you envision deploying to monetize some of that.
John on the FX front we don’t look at it as much of trying to monetize a gain as we do look at it.
Just to ensure from an enterprise risk management standpoint we’re comfortable with the currency exposures or the businesses in which we’re operating so we continually look at that.
Just to make sure that we don’t in our own view – internal view get over exposed to any particular currency and suffer a detriment down the road because of movement in that currency.
But I think the philosophy is a little different than trying to – as you suggest monetize any existing gain on a particular currency.
Okay.
And the last one is just a request for additional disclosure.
Your segment disclosure’s income statement shows us policy acquisition costs and other expenses all in one line.
Given all the moving parts with the DAC accounting change really I would appreciate to the extent you could separate out capitalization from amortization.
Okay John.
Let us consider that.
Thank you.
And we have another follow-up from Steven Schwartz.
Okay.
Last comment I promise.
Two questions here.
Just following up on Ryan’s question the investment yield gradually drops 50 basis points over the five-year period but the 15 basis points to 20 basis points in 2012 and the 50 basis points by the end of 2016 refers to return on equity? That’s right.
Okay good.
Glad I got that.
And then just going back to YRT just so I have got this straight the point Greig isn’t that you can change your pricing the point is that the pricing is such that it goes up every year to reflect the increased mortality charge on a book of business.
Well that’s correct Steve.
But I think the bigger point in terms of interest is that we don’t hold the money for that long; it’s only one year at a time.
So we’re not expecting a lot of investment income off of the funds we get.
Right.
That’s because you’re pricing for – you’re simply pricing for mortality each and every year.
Correct.
Got you okay.
That’s – I just wanted to make sure that my understanding was correct about what was going on.
This is Jack.
I think we’re at the end of our allotted time so we may need to end the call at this point.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time Mr.
Lay.
Well that works well.
Okay thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
Any other questions feel free to give us a call.
And with that we’ll the end the third quarter conference call.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Fourth Quarter 2011 results conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
(Operator instructions.) At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to RGA’s fourth quarter 2011 conference call.
Joining me this morning is Greig Woodring our CEO.
I’ll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig’s prepared remarks including premium and earnings guidance for 2012 we’ll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential for RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected result is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pretax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for the various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
I’ll turn the call over to Greig.
Thanks Jack and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to report a solid fourth quarter and completion of a strong year in terms of operating earnings capital generation and overall business growth and development.
We’ve achieved approximately 13% or better operating ROE in each of the last six years now.
By almost any financial measure we feel RGA has performed consistently and strongly for an extended period of time which speaks to the abilities of the team to develop and execute its business plans even in difficult economic times.
Getting back to the quarter most of our markets performed better than expected notably Canada and several markets in Europe and South Africa.
The only underperformance related to poor disability claims experience in Australian operation and our US group operation.
Consolidated operating income was $141 million or $1.91 per diluted share in line with our expectation but not as strong as last year’s $161 million or $2.15 per share which included $0.20 per share associated with the extension of the tax-related active financing exception legislation by Congress.
That quarter also reflected better than expected claims experience.
The current quarter results included several tax related adjustments involving claims experience on certain treaties deferred tax refinements and other items and totaled a $9 million reduction in tax provision or approximately $0.12 per share.
Also we did not close a prior tax year with the IRS in 2011 so there was no FIN 48 related reductions in the tax provision or interest expense.
Failure to close cost RGA an estimated after-tax amount of approximately $19 million or $0.26 per share the combined effect of tax provision and interest expense.
Net foreign currency fluctuations lower operating income by $1.6 million or about $0.02.
Quarterly reported premiums exceeded $2 billion for the first time ever and increased 13% over 2010’s last quarter.
Investment income was down 14% compared with the prior fourth quarter totaling $305 million including a $51 million decrease in the fair value of option contracts which are included in funds withheld at interest and support equity indexed annuities.
Excluding those contracts investment income was flat quarter over quarter despite a 24 basis point climb in yield.
For the year operating income increased 7% to $539 million from $504 million in 2010.
On a per share basis operating income was up 8% totaling $7.28 including $0.13 of net favorable foreign currency fluctuations.
Premiums grew 10% year over year and totaled $7.3 billion.
Excluding foreign currency fluctuations premiums increased 8%.
Book value per share increased 22% during 2011 to $83.65 including AOCI.
Without AOCI book value per share grew 9%.
Our net unrealized gain position now totals $1.4 billion more than double the position at the end of 2010.
Turning now to our segment results our US traditional business reported fourth quarter pretax operating income of $86 million compared with $107 million last year.
Group disability claims which can be quite volatile over short periods of time were nearly $11 million higher than expected.
This adverse experience was primarily attributable to a few clients in this short-term business.
We’ve already adjusted prices where appropriate.
The group disability business is expected to be volatile and if you will recall performed better than expected in 2010.
US mortality experience was in line with expectations.
Premiums were up 9% this quarter totaling $1.1 billion for the year.
Pretax operating income for US traditional business totaled $332 million versus $365 million in 2010 and premiums increased 5% to nearly $4 billion.
Our US asset intensive results were quite strong in this quarter helped by the recapture of a previously retroceded annuity treaty.
Pretax operating income totaled $27 million including$14 million associated with that recapture.
Going forward that recaptured business should add about $2 million to $3 million annual pretax operating income on our base.
For the year this segment reported pretax operating income of $69 million versus $66 million in a strong 2010.
Our VA business performed quite well this quarter reflecting the strong equity market performance.
Financial reinsurance enjoyed a typically strong fourth quarter taking advantage of growth opportunities and generating strong fee income.
This business added $6.9 million in pretax operating income up 23% from $5.6 million a year ago with a full year pretax operating income totaling $26.5 million up over 50% from 2010’s $17.5 million.
Turning to Canada fourth quarter pretax operating income rose to $41 million compared to $37 million in last year’s fourth quarter.
Both quarters were strong and reflected favorable mortality experience.
Reported US dollar premiums rose 9% to $225 million from $206 million last year.
In Canadian dollars premiums were up 10% quarter over quarter.
For the year pretax operating income was up 27% totaled $145 million including $5.4 million benefit associated with currency fluctuations.
Plus mortality improvements continue to characterize our Canadian business.
Turning to international operations first in Asia Pacific elevated disability claims in Australia led to a fourth quarter pretax operating loss of $1.2 million compared to a pretax operating gain of $8.1 million last year.
Lower than expected terminations on disability claims cost a reserve strengthening resulting in approximately $16 million in increased liabilities.
This reserve strengthening reduced our long-term claim termination assumptions on all DI business both group and individual in Australia and New Zealand however Australia reserves are larger on the group side so the effect was greater there.
In total we increased reserves including IBNR by about 7%.
During the fourth quarter our experience study placed additional emphasis on broader market experience and we engaged a third party to evaluate our assumptions our approach and conclusions.
We continue to compete in the Australian market.
We like our position in the market and we like our team.
We expect to generate about $150 million in disability premiums in 2012 with good margins.
In this market we have the ability to re-price group treaties when necessary and in fact continually do so.
The rest of Asia performed slightly better than expected in the quarter.
Premiums totaled $348 million up 8% from last year’s $323 million.
For the year pretax operating income decreased in Asia from $64 million from $84 million in 2010 primarily due to the poor disability experience that we just mentioned.
Full year reported premiums were up 15% to $1.3 billion and local currency premiums rose 5% in 2011.
We expect our strong brand and market shares in Asia to pay significant dividends in the future.
Next in Europe and South Africa fourth quarter pretax operating income was $39 million up from $36 million last year.
A very strong fourth quarter in 2010 makes for a difficult comparison but the claims results this quarter were generally favorable throughout most markets particularly in the UK and in South Africa.
Reported premiums were $356 million a 38% increase over last year including about $65 million associated with a single premium transaction and $9 million drag from currency fluctuations.
For the year pretax operating income in Europe was up 13% $4 million.
Reported premiums rose 30% to $1.2 billion.
Ignoring currency fluctuations premium rose 27% over 2010.
Overall we’re pleased to report a good quarter and a strong financial result of $7.28 per share.
Operating return on equity was 13% in 2011.
Our balance sheet and capitalization remains strong and our prospects for long-term growth particularly in our international markets also remains strong.
We estimate our excess capital position to be around $500 million.
Low investment yields will continue to be a headwind but perhaps not as strong as it will be for others in the financial services sector given our mortality business focus.
Looking ahead to 2012 we’ve set an operating income target of $6.70 to $7.30 per share and consolidated premium growth of approximately 7% to 9%.
Our guidance reflects adverse effects of approximately $0.55 and $0.15 per diluted share related to the adoption of new DAC accounting rules and of lower anticipated investment yields in 2012 respectively.
As a result of these factors we expect 2012 ROE to be adversely affected by about 50 basis points.
We’ve provided additional premium guidance in our quarterly financial supplement which can be found on our website.
We’re looking forward to our investor day conference which will be held March 14<sup>th</sup> at the Plaza Hotel in New York City.
Many of you who have already accepted we thank you and appreciate your support and your interest in RGA.
We will now take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions.) Our first question this morning will come from Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I had a few questions.
The first one if you could just talk about disability claims being elevated in the US and Australian businesses.
I think the business re-prices each year but this has been a recurring issue the past few quarters so what’s your expectation for claims for 2012? Secondly you mentioned excess capital of $500 million.
I wanted to get an idea if you’re assuming any capital deployment in your guidance and at what point do you start deploying that capital if you don’t see any blocked transactions? The final question I have is you mentioned the $0.15 impact on 2012 EPS from investing at lower new money rates.
How should we think about that $0.15 changing as you go? If rates were to stay stable through 2013 and beyond should that compound over time? Okay let me take the first question you had on disability claims Jimmy.
First of all we don’t view that there’s any real connection between the US and Australia.
The economic conditions are quite different in the two countries and so forth.
While in the US in taking a look at the claim we didn’t think that the claims were necessarily of the sort that would be economy related.
We did feel that it’s possible that the economy has an effect on recovery rates from disability.
Also with the low interest rate environment that in and of itself required us to think about increasing our reserves on that business.
In the US we basically for the year had a couple of bad groups.
Those do re-price.
One of them had already re-priced.
One of them is to be re-priced soon.
In the fourth quarter we actually had three groups that were troublesome.
One had a good year overall.
When you put 2011 and 2010 together in the US and Canada we basically were just about exactly on plan.
That business has shown the expected volatility we would reckon on but this particular quarter was a tough one.
Turning to Australia now the problem is mostly group business because we have so much more group business than individual business there and that does re-price periodically.
Some of those group contracts in Australia may go as long as three years.
We have not seen a whole lot of excess incidents rates in Australia.
We’ve seen mostly damage from recovery rates being slow and that’s an industry-wide phenomenon that recovery rates have seemed to slow down.
In that sense it is similar to what’s happening in the US but we’ve looked at industry information and used a lot of that incorporated a lot of that into our reserve increases trying to get on top of it because Australia after a long string of very excellent years has had a very rough 18 months.
We wanted to get out in front of this so we believe that we have to the best of our knowledge at this point taken care of the disability issues in Australia.
Are you assuming recent recovery rates in the reserve charge or are you still assuming a reversion to how recovery rates have been historically?  We will assume recent experience.
We look very deeply at reserves on the group side twice a year on the disability book so it gets refreshed periodically but we’re using current experience.
Okay.
Jimmy this is Jack.
I’ll handle the question on excess capital.
The guidance that we put forth does not presume that we’re taking out any significant amount of capital either through significant increases in dividend rates or buybacks or anything like that so you could think of it as we have presumed a modest redeployment of excess capital although I’ll remind you that typically as we deploy capital into the business the returns are more modest initially and then they tend to build over time so the redeployment doesn’t have a dramatic effect on earnings.
Hopefully that answers that question.
I guess the other question you raised on that front was at what point during the year would we try to redetermine or take another look at any kind of capital deployment or return of capital.
We really do that -- not like we have a specific timetable because we do it continually.
The deliberations or what opportunities do we have to deploy that capital in the business how much have we built any additional cushion so to speak in terms of the capital level and that sort of thing.
Suffice it to say we do look at that continually and our trading value the stock obviously as well.
We look at all those things continually to see if we shouldn’t take a different step or a different tact in terms of capital refinement.
In terms of the investment yield you should think of that $0.15 impact in 2012 as likely the most significant.
We estimate that it would trail off as we get more to equilibrium with respect to new money rates and the overall portfolio rates so we certainly wouldn’t expect to see that amount increasing.
And over time we would expect to see it moderating somewhat.
Hopefully that answers your question.
Okay thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Good morning.
A few questions.
First on the robust premium growth maybe you could give a little color on the strengths and maybe within your guidance where you expect premiums to go.
We saw US trade up 9% ex currency Canada was up 10% Europe South Africa up 42% and I think you mentioned a $65 million one-time contract in that region.
I’d like a little color on what you’re thinking those numbers will be as part of your guidance for 2012.
Same thing on the tax rate.
It looked unusually low this quarter.
What kind of rate should we be thinking about there? Lastly with regard to the excess capital of $0.5 billion how much of that do you just want to have at all times as a base just for whatever particular reason as sort of a buffer?  Okay Andrew.
This is Greig.
I’ll take the first one.
Our estimates for 2012 are simply that.
They take into account the things that happened late in the year the pipeline that we have that we believe we can count on at least to some extent and our best estimate of what we might expect going forward.
We feel for example in the US that we will grow our traditional business at least 5%.
We think that’s a pretty solid number.
We’ve had very strong growth out of Europe this year in 2011 that is.
It’s difficult to have too much visibility going forward.
There seemed to be a lot of unusual opportunities but the regular day to day activity seems to be questionable in terms of how much growth we’ll see there.
And then Asia actually we’re still refilling pipelines in Japan and Korea to some extent.
Once we get that outside of those Asia’s growing at a very nice clip for us too so those are the sorts of things we take into account.
In terms of unusual transactions there seemed to be a lot of possibilities on the horizon at the moment so that’s why we’re very optimistic about some things happening but those are very uncertain as to when and how they’re going to --  Unusual transactions across Europe and Asia?  More in the US and Europe some is Asia as well I guess.
Across the board we are generating quite a bit of opportunity but it’s just that until it’s actually wrestled to the ground.
We’re working hard at that but we’ll see what develops in 2012.
We’re optimistic going into the year that we have a lot of momentum and a lot of things happening.
Greig what was the strength in the US premium in the fourth quarter? It comes across the board a little bit and in any given quarter Andrew some of those things can be a little bit choppy but traditional mortality markets business as you know has been declining in terms of growth rate for some time.
That’s fallen to a reasonably low level but when you supplement that with some of the group businesses and the long-term care business that we’ve been doing you get a nice number.
There were some unusual transactions in the fourth quarter.
There will be some in 2012; I just don’t know what they are or when they’ll appear.
We will I think see pretty good growth rates in 2012.
Like I said we expect at least 5%.
Andrew this is Jack.
I’ll take the comment on the tax rate.
It was in fact low actually for the quarter as well as for the year.
I would guide you towards a run rate and it’s choppy from quarter to quarter so don’t hold us to this each quarter but for the year our expectation going forward is roughly a 33% effective rate in terms of our tax provision so I think that’s what you should presume.
This year was choppy for a variety of reasons.
You may recall in the third quarter in particular we had some deferred tax liabilities that we adjusted.
That went through the tax provision and as a result it affected the effective tax rate.
We also did not close a year with respect to the guidance under FIN 48.
That had some impact on the effective tax rate.
It had more impact on our interest expense.
We in fact didn’t reverse some interest expense that we would normally have expected to.
That’s why I just guide you towards a 33% rate expectation in terms of next year.
Relative to your question on excess capital we have about $0.5 billion best estimate currently.
As a matter of policy we do try to keep a buffer or a cushion.
I would characterize that as roughly half of that so $250 million to $300 million feels about right in terms of keeping at least some excess capital.
Now having said that it doesn’t mean that we would be uncomfortable if we had the opportunity tomorrow to deploy all $500 million at a meaningful return that we would take advantage of that opportunity.
In other words that buffer cushion is more long term in nature but to the extent that we would deploy some of that cushion and then rebuild it over a relatively short period of time we would certainly consider that.
It sounds like the run off opportunities that Greig was just referring to in terms of premium growth would cause you to deploy a fair chunk of that $500 million? It could.
It’s just a matter of what we execute and what we don’t but as you know we continually look at those sorts of opportunities but it really just depends on the extent to which we’re successful and closing.
Thanks.
Our next question will come from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Good morning everybody.
I have a few as well but I’ll take them one at a time.
Looking at the guidance for 2012 a couple of questions there.
I think first Jack are you guys assuming something from FIN 48 running through there for this year?  Steven yes we are although it’s far from clear whether we will be able to execute on that.
It’s not particularly dramatic but it’s not insignificant either.
I think it’s probably $0.12 to $0.14 would be the impact if we didn’t close the year but it’s kind of hard to go year to year to year and sometimes include a year rolling off and sometimes we don’t.
As a matter of procedure we typically just presume we’ll roll off a year.
Alight and then also on guidance I guess following up on Andrew’s question with regards to the US now the business has slowed.
We all know that.
Primary companies are keeping more capital so that’s not a surprise.
I guess.
Greig could you talk about maybe a split between how you see the in force growing as opposed to how you see maybe premium yield increasing as the book ages?  Our US mortality block will grow somewhere around a percent would be my guess Steven.
It doesn’t grow a whole lot but it doesn’t decrease.
It should grow at maybe a percent something like that.
Okay just wanted to make sure.
And then one more please on Australia.
Greig in your commentary did you indicate that the problem was STD not long-term disability? No it’s group long-term disability.
It is long-term group disability? Typically lump sum.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks.
First another one with capital.
Your excess capital is staying consistently at $500 million throughout the year.
Does this imply that your ongoing operations are really not generating any incremental free cash flow? Any comment there would be helpful.
Second on corporate expenses being particularly high this quarter can we get some details as to what was driving that? What’s the rates move run rates for corporate as we look forward? Lastly the asset intent of annuity recapture.
Are there additional treaties that you’re looking at also recapturing or should we view that more as a one-time item? Thanks.
Nigel this is Jack.
In terms of capital generation it changes year to year but our best estimate going forward at least for the near term is we would generate roughly a couple hundred million $200 million of free cash flow or additional capital probably is a better way to look at it but generally it’s available capital.
So roughly $200 million a year I think is a good run rate.
In terms of the expenses we normally particularly in the fourth quarter because we’ve closed a year we tend to refine some of the accruals.
Incentive comp comes to mind where a lot of the team is compensated with some degree of incentive comp and then at the end of the year you’ve got a better picture in terms of what the calculations look like so it’s not unusual for us in the fourth quarter.
In fact if you went back and looked you’ll see this in quite a few of the years where we’ll refine some of the expense accruals including incentive comp.
As a result you have a little bit of dislocation in the fourth quarter.
There aren’t a whole lot of situations where we’ll recapture although this is two years in a row where we’ve done some recapture on the annuities front.
We did a smaller recapture earlier in the year in one of our other lines of business so we’re continually on the lookout for situations where we can recapture unfavorable terms and that happens from time to time.
So it’s a run off item but it’s not something that’s unheard of either.
Great.
Just to follow up on the free cash play the $200 million is that the amount of cash which is generated to be dividended up to the [whole cores] or is the before [whole core] expense and dividends or is that total amount available for things like buybacks going forward?  Well it’s cash flow available that we could get to the holding company if we so desired so in that respect it would be available for buybacks or dividends or anything like that.
Got it.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Schuman with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping first to circle back a little bit more on Australia.
First of all a clarification.
I think when we’ve talked in the past about group disability and the weakness from a year ago I think there was some discussion about a particular contract that had a finite life and I thought it was going to wrap up in fourth quarter of 2011.
Am I remembering that correctly?  Yes you are.
The problem last year was one particular treaty that really soured badly.
That treaty is no longer an issue so this is a bit more of across the board reserve increases.
Okay and then I think you said for 2012 $150 million of disability premium.
Is that individual and group? If so how does that split out approximately?  I believe that it would be predominately overwhelmingly group 70% to 80% group I would imagine.
That’s a guesstimate but the individual numbers are not very big.
I just wondered directionally because I think at investor day there were some numbers that suggested a strength of disability was about $80 million of premiums so I guess a little bit surprised to see it increasing given the fact that it’s been kind of a difficult market.
Is that a business you think is attractive to grow at this point?  Yeah I suspect it’s a bit of a refinement in the number Jeff.
The group business in Australia has been a very attractive market for a while but it is a somewhat cyclical business.
It has been in our past quite profitable.
Now it’s quite competitive and it’s going through an area where it’s difficult so we haven’t been growing that business very much.
I would expect that you’ve seen very little growth in the last year some growth on the individual side.
Individual disability in Australia is wrapped up in all the life insurance policies so it’s very difficult to reinsure a mortality risk without taking some disability risk as well.
We take some individual disability risk incidentally but it doesn’t amount to that much.
Okay and then I’m sorry if you mentioned this but what was the nature of the large Italian transaction?  It was a single premium business out of Italy.
Mortality?  It was creditor business.
It has a mixture of different coverages in it.
Okay and then lastly I know it’s early and these things take a while but any read from your lobbyists on the prospects for the active financing exception?  Jeff this is Jack.
Our lobbyists are pretty confident that in fact that legislation will take place.
I guess we’re a little more conservative so it remains to be seen but we are encouraged by what the lobbyists who we paid for their opinions we’re encouraged by what they tell us.
Even our lobbyists have said that if it’s going to happen it’s probably going to happen after the election in November.
It’s not going to happen early in the year.
Right.
That makes sense.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question comes from Sarah DeWitt Barclays Capital.
Hi.
Good morning.
Following up on your excess capital position you’re holding a meaningful amount of excess capital and that should probably continue to build.
How should we think about the timing in terms of deploying that? Are you holding on to excess capital for a certain amount of time in hopes that opportunities for acquisitions present themselves? At what point would you look at share buybacks?  Sarah this is Jack.
We don’t have a set timetable.
We continually look at opportunities to deploy the capital so that’s just a matter of course.
We’re continually doing that sort of thing.
Now if we get well into the year and have not deployed any meaningful amount of that excess capital and maybe more importantly don’t see opportunities in the pipeline to deploy it then we would look more seriously at what’s a better way to refine the capital base.
There’s not a set timetable but we all are continually cognizant of the fact that we do have additional capital so we continually have that discussion internally in terms of what’s the best course of action at this point.
Did that answer the question?  Yeah that’s great.
Thank you.
And then secondly I wanted to see if we get a little more color on your expectations for premium growth in Europe South Africa and the Asia Pacific segments.
I was surprised that you expect that to slow quite a bit from the double-digit levels currently and would have thought those would be your faster growing segments.
Could you give a little more color on your outlook there? Yeah Sarah.
Start with Asia.
As I mentioned it’s been repairing pipelines in Korea and Japan.
It looks like we’re growing again in South Korea a little bit and in Japan we had another large treaty that ran its course or is now no longer producing and we will have to replace that.
If you exclude Japan and Korea Asia grew at a very nice clip.
We would expect that growth rate to more or less continue with the potential exception of Australia which as I said is a very competitive market on the group side and group business is a little over half of our business.
We would expect Australia to have a tougher time growing but the rest of Asia will have a pretty good run and then we expect growth from Korea and Japan to recommence soon.
You put all that together and it’s a little bit uncertain.
I think the same thing could be said of Europe.
We see a lot of opportunities and a lot of momentum.
At the same time we’re a little bit cautious about exactly what the organic growth rates might be in Europe with all the dislocation coming there.
We believe we will do well in those markets relatively and we are competing strongly in most of the European markets.
South Africa is a place that grew nicely in 2011 and kind of hard to predict where it’s going to go in 2012 but we’re encouraged by the experience in South Africa in 2011.
We had great results there and we’re just a little bit cautious in projecting though the same sort of growth rates we’ve seen in 2011 into 2012.
Okay great.
Thanks for the answers.
We’ll hear next from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Good morning.
I had a couple of questions on the guidance.
Particularly thinking about the US traditional business in the guidance are you assuming that session rates in the United States have bottomed?  No John.
They might come down a bit.
We also expect that our market share in 2010 was higher than reasonable to expect and we expect our market share to be coming down in 2011 and a bit in 2012.
Nonetheless we see also some opportunities in 2012.
While we can’t count them until they’re done like I said we believe that 5% is a pretty good number as a minimum.
Okay and then if I look at the full year 2011 so US traditional life you grew premiums about 5.5% year over year.
Can you give us a sense for how much of that growth was what you guys would refer to as more traditional mortality risk business versus maybe the other less traditional businesses for you guys group insurance or the long-term care or the combination? John this is Jack.
I’ll take that.
That growth rate I would say that what you could characterize as purely US traditional business was a little bit lower.
Not dramatically but a little bit lower than that overall growth rate and then to the extent you get up to 5% it’s because the growth in for instance the group or the LTC business is at a little bit higher rate.
Keep in mind those are substantially smaller blocks of business.
It’s still the impact of what we would characterize as traditional business is the most dramatic.
Long-term care grew at the fastest rate but it’s a real small piece of the overall.
Thinking now to the 2012 the 5% to 7% growth that you’re looking for for premiums in the US traditional should we be thinking sort of similar to 2011? Yeah I think you should.
And then just curious on a couple quarters ago maybe it was even as long ago as late last year you guys had called out that early-2000’s maybe early- to mid-2000’s cohort of business in US trade that was maybe producing lower returns than your overall book.
You had mentioned that that was peaking or was about to peak as a percentage of the business.
Can you give us just an update on where that stands? I’m trying to understand as you build out your forecast for 2012 should we be expecting meaningful improvement in let’s say the benefit ratio or the underwriting results of US traditional? Yeah John those things don’t move very quickly.
Peaking may give the wrong impression.
Plateauing might be a better term because it doesn’t really hit a peak and come down real fast.
It is the lowest return business we have and the new business we’re writing and have written for the last several years is much higher return than that business.
I can say that and that will ultimately erode that negative effect from that low returns on business written from about ’98 to 2003 or 2004.
Okay so slower if we’re thinking about underwriting results let’s say benefit ratio or benefit plus expense ratio we ought to be thinking about more modest case of reversion back to a historical level? Oh yeah.
Yeah I’d say it moves only gradually.
It’s very soft.
Okay and then last and I know this is probably a tougher one but you reported $7.28 of operating EPS in 2011.
There’s obviously changes in mortality and risk experience relative to pricing but there’s also a lot of other one-time items tax items the recaptures a few other things.
As you guys think about the right baseline that we ought to be thinking about to judge your EPS growth for 2012 is there a core level that you would point us to as the baseline for 2011 results? John this is Jack.
We did have a lot of noise so to speak.
Every year we always have some degree of noise but in 2011 we probably had more than we would normally have but to me the most obvious to pull out of there are refinements of deferred taxes.
That’s truly unusual.
You wouldn’t expect that to recur and that was to our benefit.
When you put all that together we view the run rate for 2011 as roughly $7.
I think that gets to the heart of your question.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Ryan Krueger Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First a follow up on the US growth.
You mentioned further session rate declines as though it was bit lower market share expectation for 2012 but if the 5% to 7% guidance is kind of in line to better than what we saw in 2011 so I was just hoping for maybe a little bit more color.
It seems like you have some factors that maybe would push the growth rate slightly lower than 2011.
I’m wondering if there’s some specific considerations we should be keeping in mind for where you’re going to pick up that lost growth.
Ryan it does sound a little bit contradictory in some senses but first of all we don’t expect our business to go down a whole lot.
We’re also mindful of what happened in the latter part of 2011 baking that into our expectations for 2012 as well as to some degree the elements that we see in the pipeline right now.
We’re putting together a lot of stuff that we have available and it’s our best estimate.
It’s nothing we can actually put in the bank but it’s something we have some conviction on based on all the things we’re seeing and even though it does sound contradictory I think that’s what we come out with.
Okay thanks.
And then on Japan and Korea the pipeline can you just give us a sense of the premium growth you’re expecting in those two markets versus the rest of the geography in Asia Pacific? Ryan off the top of my head I’m not sure I can do that.
I would think that Korea is in single digits expectation for 2012 and I would expect Japan will struggle to get back to zero after ’11.
I suspect Japan will be negative growth next year or pretty flat if not.
Lastly on the active financing exception should we expect a higher tax rate to be booked in the first few quarters like a 2010 experience followed by a droop once you have more clarity or would you expect to book it the whole year like you’ll get the exception? Ryan this is Jack.
You should expect a higher tax provision higher effective tax rate until that legislation has passed.
We talked about that earlier that it would not be unusual for that legislation not to be passed until the fourth quarter.
Okay so your guidance seems it’s passed but I guess the emergence of it would imply a little bit of a back end loaded benefit? That’s absolutely right and you refer to 2010 and yeah that’s the sort of pattern that you could expect.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
We’ll hear next from Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just a few higher level questions.
Can you talk a little bit about just a general competitive environment? Some of your major competitors are European financial institutions where clearly things have been a bit more challenging.
Just curious if you’re seeing related improvement in pricing pretty much across the board in terms of the geographies because they obviously compete with you in multi jurisdictions.
That’s my first question.
Tom I would say no that we haven’t seen any effects of any stresses on European competitors.
They’re still competing very vigorously and in fact if anything competition is generally a little bit higher than it’s been.
It’s not unduly high but it’s a little bit higher than it’s been in the past while as it’s trending upward if anything but it’s spotty.
So you’re not seeing any alleviation from a pricing standpoint?  We don’t see it.
Got it and then just a question on Bermuda.
There are capital changes coming I guess from the regulatory regime there adopting solvency too I believe in 2013.
Can you comment whether or not this can have any impact on you and also do you see this creating any potential opportunities? First of all it shouldn’t have very much of an impact on us.
We do have a subsidiary in Bermuda that we use for some things but it’s not really likely that that will have much of an impact at all on us nor do we really see it as something that’s going to affect in any major way most of our competitors who use writing subsidiaries in other jurisdictions.
We would expect competition’s pretty much going to be similar.
Some of the annuity transactions where the competition comes from some of the Bermudian operations might be affected a bit.
We’ll see.
That’s the only place where we might and we’re not doing a whole lot in that space given the environment right now in terms of new business activity.
I really don’t expect the advent of solvency too in Bermuda to have any big changes.
Then lastly on a related note it would seem that the biggest area of dislocation in the US is clearly the variable annuity market.
I know you had done some transactions a while ago but do you see there being any opportunities for you as it relates to any structured variable annuity risk transfer-type deals or any comments there? Yeah we continue to look at the evolution of the variable annuity space.
We’re trying to find some spot where volatility is not a significant problem and where the return expectations are reasonably full.
We haven’t found any yet that have encouraged us to take a plunge.
Certainly if we wanted to reinsure variable annuities we could have discussions with a number of companies that would like to reinsure variable annuities either back books or new business.
That’s not a problem in terms of demand from our perspective.
It’s finding the right product possibilities that will enable us to go forward.
We haven’t done any in as you said a number of years now.
Okay thanks.
We’ll go next to Steven Schwartz Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick follow up.
The deal in Italy did that add or subtract earnings at all in the quarter?  I don’t know Steven but my guess is it would almost be zero.
This is Jack.
It was very modest.
Okay I just wanted to make sure.
We’ll take the next question from Jeffrey Schuman KBW.
Thanks.
Just want to get a little more perspective on the US pipeline.
It sounds like you see a number of potential kind of one-off larger transactions.
I’m wondering if there are some general themes.
Tom asked about variable annuities as one possibility but are you seeing companies strategically want to exit lines of business? Are you seeing different kind of risk management exercises or capital arbitrage or any themes to dominate those opportunities?  We are seeing companies Jeff that do want to exit the business.
We’re seeing companies that want to streamline their operations so we are seeing some one-off disposals or one-time events as possibilities.
Again it’s hard to say what might happen or might not happen because they are quite varied but some of them are in the traditional mortality space so we view that as a very sweet spot for us.
Okay thanks a lot.
We’ll go back to John Nadel Sterne Agee.
Just a quick one maybe to take this way down into the weeds.
I apologize but just a quick one on the DAC accounting change.
If we’re looking at a roughly $0.55 headwind and more of a modeling question but can you give us a rough sense maybe breaking down that $0.55 by region or by segment?  John this is Jack.
I don’t have the breakdown in front of me but a considerable amount of the impact relates to our international operation.
Yeah I understood that.
Yeah because they’ve grown fairly rapidly as you know over the last few years so there’s been a lot of infrastructure buildup—infrastructure not in terms of buildings but just systems and people and all that sort of thing some of which entered into the DAC calculations.
So I would say in terms of impact on historic earnings you’ll see more impact on the international operation than you will see on the North American operations.
I can follow up with you offline if necessary.
I just was wondering does that mean 50% of the DAC headwind or does that mean something more like 75% or 80% of the headwind comes from international? That’s all.
Yeah we’ll probably have to take it offline because I’m not sure that I’ve got a summary and it’s very different from office to office and that sort of thing so that gets to be rather involved.
Okay I’ll follow up with you.
Thanks.
Gentlemen we have no questions remaining.
I’ll turn the call back over to you for any additional remarks.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today and to the extent any other issues or questions come up feel free to give us a call here in St.
Louis and we’ll respond.
With that we’ll end the call.
Thank you very much.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning to everyone and welcome to RGA’s first quarter 2012 conference call.
Joining me this morning is Greig Woodring our CEO.
I’ll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder about our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig’s prepared remarks we’ll open the line for questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we’ll make certain comments – or we’ll make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC guideline.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and the quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at www.rgare.com.
With that I’ll turn it over to Greig for his comments.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We’re pleased to report a good first quarter with operating income per share of $1.52.
Our Canadian business continued its trend of producing strong results and we are also happy with the results out of Asia-Pacific and our US Asset Intensive business.
These results were partially offset by elevated critical illness and mortality claims in the UK and slightly higher than expected individual mortality claims in the US.
Our effective tax rate this quarter was 32% slightly below our anticipated rate for the full year of 33%.
We continue to feel some downward pressure on earnings as a result of the ongoing low interest rate environment.
Investment income was down $30 million or 8% quarter-over-quarter including a $49 million decrease in the fair value of option contracts supporting equity-indexed annuities.
Excluding those contracts investment income was up 6%.
The average portfolio yield dropped to 5.05% from 5.35% in the first quarter of 2011 and 5.19% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Book value per share increased to $80.44 including AOCI and to $58.57 without it.
The company’s capitalization and investment portfolios remained strong.
Turning now to our segment results.
Our US Traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $63 million down a little from $66 million last year.
The group disability business performed as expected but individual mortality claims came in a bit higher than expected.
We view that higher claims as a typical fluctuation following in that 1% to 2% volatility range coupled with the seasonality effect we generally experienced during the first quarter of each year.
We typically see relatively higher claims and lower premiums in the first quarter due to the seasonality effects associated with higher debt rates during the winter months.
Premiums were up 9% quarter-over-quarter with help from an in-force transaction and solid growth in our group and health related businesses.
We’re pleased to report that we retained our number one position in the US for recurring new business during 2011 with a market share of 22.4% that is according to an SOA Society of Actuaries that has sponsored reinsurance market study.
In addition we remained one of the top reinsurers in terms of in-force with the market share of 19%.
Our US Asset Intensive results were strong this quarter and pre-tax operating income rose 17% over $24 million.
Favorable equity market conditions have benefited equity-indexed and variable annuity reinsurance in four of the last five quarters now.
Our Financial Reinsurance business continues to produce strong fee income and added $6.5 million of pre-tax operating income in this quarter compared with $6.2 million a year ago.
Turning to Canada.
Pre-tax operating income rose sharply to $47 million and 83% increase over the first quarter of 2011 with both periods benefiting from continuing mortality improvements premium’s met expectations and were up slightly over a very strong first quarter of 2011.
Just like the US our Canadian operations retained its leading position for recurring new business in 2011 the SOA survey showed a number one market share of 32.6% in Canada.
Turning to our international operations first in Asia-Pacific.
Similar to Canada this segment is off to a strong start with pre-tax operating income rising over 20% to $27 million this quarter reflecting favorable mortality experience.
All markets contributed to the better than expected results this period.
Disability claims in Australia which you may recall were elevated in the fourth quarter of 2011 were in line with expectations this period.
Net premiums in this segment were a bit behind expectation totaling $325 million a 4% increase over the prior year quarter.
That sort of fluctuation in premium flows can result from timing and reporting practices of seeding companies we expect it to even out over the course of 2012.
Next in Europe and South Africa pre-tax operating income was $4.6 million down from $22 million last year primarily due to poor experience with our critical illness business in the UK.
Additionally the UK’s mortality results were worse than expected.
Collectively the rest of the markets in this segment performed well this quarter.
The critical illness claims in the UK were certainly higher than we anticipated though critical illness experience can be volatile just like mortality over short term horizons despite the performance this quarter this business has performed well overtime and we expect future results to be in line with long term projections.
Reported premiums were $293 million a 9% increase over last year.
Original currency premiums were up 13% over the first quarter of 2011.
So overall we’re pleased to report another good quarter with annualized operating return on equity of 10.6%.
Our first quarter ROEs are typically more modest due to the seasonality affected claims.
For the trailing 12 months operating ROE was 12%.
Our balance sheet and capitalization remains strong and we estimate our excess capital position to be around $400 million reflecting the new DAC accounting guidelines.
Underwriting earnings continue to be the principal driver of RGA’s success and we look forward to continue top and bottom line growth for the remainder of 2012.
We’re excited about the opportunities we’re seeing in various markets around the world and are well positioned to take advantage of those opportunities.
We thank you; appreciate your support and interest in RGA.
And with that we’ll now take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go first to Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Hi good morning.
I had a few questions.
The first one just on potential opportunities you see that are from Solvency II and other accounting/regulatory changes over the coming years? Then secondly if you could talk a little bit more about what drove the spike in claims in Europe is it because of the economy is it something else and what the chances are that it will sustain? And the last question that I just had is US premium growth seemed a little bit stronger than I would have expected and I think you had a transaction that you signed in the quarter.
So if you could just talk a little bit about the transaction and what do you expect for premium growth in the US over the course of 2012? Thanks.
Yeah Jimmy.
The potential opportunities look strong at this point.
We’re seeing quite a bit of activity with respect to Solvency II type opportunities.
We don’t really know who is going to transact or when.
There is still a little bit of time between now and the advent of Solvency II.
But the overall activity level is very high in the organization right now.
So we will take that as a positive sign and we’ll see how that goes.
In terms of claims the claims in Europe are mostly adverse claims mostly in the UK was high the rest of the Europe was fine in terms of claims.
The UK claims just like the US claims they tend to bounce around if you remember the UK had a very good year last year and the last couple of years; in particular the critical illness claims have been very well behaved.
So this quarter we’re treating as an anomaly at this point.
In terms of premiums the premium was a little bit high in the US a little bit light in Asia compared to what we would expect for the full year.
But it’s always important not to get too hung up on one quarter’s results they do tend to fluctuate a bit on the premium reported side as well and we can only smooth that out to some extent by accruing things that we know about and we can’t accrue things we don’t know about.
In terms of the – we did do an in-force transaction in the US that will add a reasonably amount to our premium totals for the year but that’s prorated.
So it wasn’t a cause of any especially unusual numbers for the quarter.
And we do expect the premium account for the US to be somewhere up in the 5% range for the course of the year.
Okay thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Hey good morning.
On the corporate line area it look like investment income came pretty light relative to what I would have anticipated maybe $7 million $8 million $10 million shy.
Can you talk about the outlook for investment income there and what we can expect? And I have a quick follow up.
Yeah Andrew this is Jack.
Let me take a crack at that.
The investment income was a little bit light.
We allocate investment income based upon the net capital need of the various subsidiaries and that can fluctuate a little bit.
But yeah we made the same observation through our allocation methodology.
We ended up a little bit lighter than we would have expected in corporate for the first quarter that should moderate as we refine that allocation methodology over the remainder of the year.
So I guess I would guide you towards – let’s take a step back just from investment income but talk about the corporate results.
The results that we reported in the first quarter are expected to be a little bit lighter than we would see in the follow-on quarters and in fact we’d expect to see a positive pre-tax income amount in corporate on average in the follow-on quarters.
And Jack what time – what kind of drove what specifically on the allocation or the investment income I mean does that mean you’re going to take it from another area why do you think you’ll see a reversal negative number to positive in subsequent quarters? Yeah Andrew it won’t be dramatic.
But we had to refine the methodology just because we had to overlay a new DAC reporting methodology.
And there is an expectation that we’ll see an ongoing refinement.
And refinement doesn’t imply a big adjustment.
It’s just a very modest refinement going forward.
So once again if you take a step back and think not just of investment income but of the bottom line result we would expect debt to improve.
We have some expense accruals that hit us a little bit harder in the first quarter typically and we would expect to see a little bit more in investable funds that remain at the corporate level as opposed to being allocated going forward as well as we continue to generate cash.
Got it.
And then just on premium going back to that.
Asia up 1% what kind of dampened the Asia and what’s the strength of Europe South Africa being up 13% just want to get a sense of what’s going on and what might change going forward.
Well if you remember taking the latter question first.
The European segment was up considerably last year.
And so we’re still following that momentum forward as we generate more revenue out of Europe so it’s pretty strong there.
In Asia we’ve been experiencing especially in Korea and Japan some need to fill up the pipeline and so that has been dampening the premium growth rates that we’re seeing across the rest of the region.
But again I would caution you that one quarter doesn’t necessarily tell the story these results do bounce around a bit.
But you think that the pipeline or numbers could come through in a bigger way in Asia Korea down the road...
Yeah.
Not necessarily next quarter.
Yeah I would expect the growth rate to pick up in Asia.
Thanks.
Andrew this is Jack.
Maybe to pick up on that.
We may want to refer you back to the guidance we issued in January of this year.
Because as Greig mentioned quarter-to-quarter we can’t see the top-line there is some volatility and it will move around a little bit.
But the guidance that we had issued couple of months ago or so really did – or three months ago I guess I should say did – really did contemplate what we expect in each of those segments relative to any – for instance in-force deals that it had been signed and so on and so forth.
So I would refer you back to that guidance we issued in January.
We’ll take our next question from Nigel Dally.
Great.
Thank you good morning.
First with excess capital you mentioned it was down to $400 million from what I think it was $500 million last quarter.
And in your comments you mentioned DAC not sure why DAC has any impact on capital so if you have some color there? Then second in Japan we’ve heard some companies talk about reinsurance transactions for supplemental insurance you’re coming on with that expected to emerge into a large market and what does that potentially mean for RGA? Nigel this is Jack.
Let me handle the question on excess capital because it’s kind of little bit murkier because of the DAC adjustment.
You may recall we were sitting at roughly – our expectation was we were at about $500 million of excess capital at the end of year.
Then we overlaid financial reporting adjustment for DAC that did take about $300 million out of capital now that doesn’t mean that that impacts our excess capital by $300 million.
But it does affect the capital models that the rating agencies use.
In fact we’re going to meet with two of the three agencies that do forward us a rating within the next several weeks and we’ll get a little bit more clarification on their views on how the DAC – the change in DAC reporting affects their view of excess capital and in particular how it affects their capital model.
So while we had indicated about $500 million of excess capital at the end of the year it feels like just because of that DAC reporting change that number is in the $300 million to $400 million range now.
I guess I’m not sure on how that works out.
Because your statutory surplus I would have thought wouldn’t change as a result of any GAAP accounting changes is it coming through the leverage ratio or how does the – just how does the DAC really impact the means in which you calculate the excess capital? Well Nigel keep in mind that the rating agencies don’t necessarily default solely the statutory surplus in fact two of them use our GAAP reporting as a major basis for how they model the extent to which our capital requirements.
So I wouldn’t think of it – you’re right that it doesn’t affect the statutory reporting but I wouldn’t think of it simply because of that as not having an effect on the capital models that the rating agencies use.
Okay got it.
And Nigel with respect to the supplemental insurance we do quote on supplemental insurance and reinsure a bit of it in Japan that’s a very small piece of the overall picture in Japan for us.
Okay very good.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hey good morning everybody.
Before I start I do want to follow-up on one comment.
Greig with regards to I think it was a follow-up to Jimmy Bhullar’s question with regards to the block of business you said it didn’t add much and then you I think you said that you saw US premium of 5% on the year.
That – I just want to corroborate that because that is a bit lower than what we were told in March? Well defer back to – refer back to the March comment I think we said 5% to 7% or something 5% plus.
Yeah the point was like 6.7%.
Yeah I think it would still be the same.
And what I was trying to say clearly when we added that block in the beginning of the year we did – it did boost the revenue a bit but it’s pro rata.
In other words every quarter going forward will have the same boost.
Right.
Just so I’m clear here.
Did the March know about – did the March number that you gave did that know about this deal? Yeah.
Okay.
All right fine.
And then if I may just on my own.
Just some numbers I think I do want to follow-up though on the corporate and other.
The allocation was the two investment income was low; I don’t think you told Andrew Jack where that money went and where would it come back from? In terms of any refinements of the allocation what...
Yeah.
Segments would be affected.
Yeah.
The – because they sit on the largest portfolio the US mortality is our traditional segment would to the extent there is any refinements that would be affected the most and then the others to a lesser degree.
And maybe I’m putting a point on this I don’t want to make it sound like we’re going to have significant sort of refinements or adjustments I was just commenting that that’s been an ongoing process because of the change in DAC reporting and so we may see a little bit of impact on the corporate line going forward.
Okay.
And then on the US Asset Intensive you’ve got a couple of things running there obviously you’ve got the weird GAAP accounting for index annuities and then you have a benefit from I assume the equity market being up 12% any idea what a normal what a more normal run rate would have been for the quarter for Asset Intensive? Steven are you talking about operating income? Yeah I think it was not looking at the model but I think...
Yeah.
...it was $24 million and you said you had benefit from strong equity markets which I would assume would be some type of DAC indoor.
Got it.
SOP 03-1 adjustment? Yeah.
More – call it a more normalized sort of run rate would be in the $16 million to $17 million range.
$16 million to $17 million okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then if I may one more then I’ll get back in line.
Anything to take away from the – I think there were sharp drops in new business assumed both in Europe South Africa and Asia I know those numbers can get really weird is there anything – is there a takeaway from that this quarter? I don’t think so Steven.
Okay great.
Thanks.
I’ll get back in line.
We will take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hey good morning everyone.
I’ve got a couple of quick ones Greig or Jack could you size for us maybe in dollars the shortfall in UK mortality and in UK critical illness and remind us how big those two books of business are? John this is Jack.
Let me take a crack at that and maybe I’ll express it in terms of cents per share and then you can...
Yeah.
That will be helpful.
...whatever you want but I’d say the negative mortality in total for ESA was about or had an impact of about $0.12 per share.
And you can think of that – a negative impact of $0.12 per share – and you can think of that as about two thirds of that impact related to critical illness claims and development and the remainder was just on mortality side.
Okay that’s helpful.
Then in – I’m just thinking about the Financial Reinsurance I know it’s a very small portion of your overall earnings but if I think back to your Investor Day it appears to me that you are calling for about $50 million to $55 million of pre-tax income from this segment in 2012 with a very solid growth rate thereafter clearly annualizing 1Q results doesn’t get anywhere close to that what’s built into your expectations specifically for that segment and how do you look upon that guide for 2012 for the full year does it change does 1Q results change your view? John your question was on Financial Reinsurance? Yeah.
I think part of the confusion may be what we’re reflecting in Financial Reinsurance is solely the US based sub segment so to speak.
And I think if I recall...
Yeah I think at Investor Day we showed you the international for the first time.
Okay.
So the – sorry go ahead.
Yeah John.
I was just going to say that’s the difference that.
My recollection is in the Investor Day presentation we aggregated all the Financial Reinsurance enterprise wide which would include in particular the Asia-Pacific Financial Reinsurance business.
So I think that’s why in trying to come over the run rate when you’re looking solely at the US sub segment there appears to be a disconnect.
Okay.
I think we’re pretty much John we are on track with that business.
That was my follow-up.
So then the only other question I have for you is just overall thinking back to the Investor Day longer term outlook very very solid long-term outlook.
I think our expectations were good continued top and bottom line growth good ROEs anything I understand we can’t trend necessarily anything out of a single quarter’s results but is there anything you saw this quarter or anything you see on the horizon that alters your outlook one way or the other in any of your businesses? John I would say no and in fact we’d always like to have the better first quarter.
We’d like each of the operating businesses to perform better than expected but we know that the first quarter is always our difficult quarter and having gotten through this quarter with some ups and downs but pretty much on track for the year in our opinion.
Okay.
We think everything is pretty much as we portrayed it on Investor Day.
And then by the way just as an aside I don’t know if this has any impact but on an accounting basis does the fact that it’s a leap year and you get an extra day in the first quarter does that impact your claims at all? Yeah.
We have an extra day of claims and no extra day of premiums that’s true and actually somebody I forgot the number and actually told me how many claims we had in the US on that day in particular and it’s a noticeable number but that’s happens every four years.
Understood.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Hi good morning could you help us just understand what the core number in the first quarter was ex-unusual items and you said there was $0.12 of negative mortality from ESA I’m not sure if there was anything else or any other offsets and given that do you still expect to hit your full year 2012 EPS guidance of 6.7 to 7.30 I know you mentioned a number of times that the first quarter is seasonally low? Thanks.
Yeah Sarah this is Jack.
Maybe I could take that.
As we’ve tried to articulate here we did have some unusual items as we always do going each way and we had better than expected mortality in some segments offset and others by worse than expected mortality.
But when you combine it all the end result was I characterize is kind of a normal result normalized result for the first quarter recognizing that we do expect higher claims flow in the first quarter just because of seasonality.
So that’s – I guess that’s our best answer relative to what was the run rate or normalized result.
We typically don’t reiterate guidance once we’ve issued it.
We issue once a year.
And if we were dramatically off that guidance and not expecting to make it up then we would feel a need to comment.
But we don’t reiterate the guidance but as Greig said the quarter came in roughly right on our plan or right at our expectation.
So you can draw your own conclusions what that means relative to guidance.
Okay.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
And then separately could you update us on what you’re seeing in terms of M&amp;A opportunities as well as your appetite for any capital management or share buybacks this year? Well taking the M&amp;A opportunities I’ll let Jack talk about the share buy backs afterwards but in terms of M&amp;A opportunities when we think of that we think not only of potential acquisitions of reinsurance companies of which there are very few opportunities and don’t see on the scope right at the moment.
But also opportunities to acquire or buy blocks of business by the embedded value of blocks of business and we’re seeing quite a bit activity on that front.
Much of it is the opportunities that Jimmy referred to earlier they have to do with Basel III or Solvency II.
And others just are opportunities that are coming about as companies that refine their strategic direction and look to release blocks of business that are no longer core or strategic in their opinion.
So there seems to be a lot of activity at the moment.
It’s too early to tell how it’s all going to end up.
Yeah.
This is Jack in terms of the capital situation we obviously didn’t announce any buybacks or anything like that.
We continue to consider both the dividend level as well as deployment of capital whether that’s into the business or through return of capital in some fashion.
So we’re about where we expect it to be.
We didn’t expect to make any – take any action this early in the year and we’ll continue to monitor the situation in terms of how much capital we have how much we think we need so on and so forth.
And I will tell you everything is under consideration.
We don’t – we consider as we go through internally at the management team level and then in discussions with our board.
We consider everything in terms of what to do with the excess capital so no actions to announce here but we’ll continue to review it.
Great.
Thanks for the answers.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go next to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Just – first quickly on the mortality transaction in the US can you just quantify the amount of premium that’s added in the quarter? This is Jack.
I think it was about $11 million to $12 million for the quarter.
Okay great.
And then on the surplus relief transactions that you’ve done for primary companies in Japan.
I was just curious are those primarily fee-based financial retype deals or is risk transfer involved in those transactions as well? Predominantly the former predominantly surplus relief.
Okay.
And then lastly you guys mentioned several times the opportunities from Solvency II in Europe.
I was curious if you’ve also seen any increased opportunities to deploy capital in the US? There has been a couple public blocks I guess available of late and I don’t know I don’t think you’ve done too many of these in the past.
But would you consider partnering up with another institution on an M&amp;A type deal as well? Well we’re always talking about things like that and yes the answer in short is yes.
And we have several of those discussions underway.
There is opportunities not only in Europe but there is opportunities in the US as you mentioned as well as Asia.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
We’ll take our next question from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Thanks.
Just given your update on excess capital are you still safely above your target cushion? Yeah we are.
That target cushion is – it’s not set in stone it’s just kind of a – I wouldn’t even call it a policy it’s a target I guess the best way to put it and that’s roughly $300 million and as I mentioned we are 300 to 400 in excess right now.
So yeah we are certainly above it.
Okay.
And your capital generation is on plan as far as you know I am just trying to think of how much you would have available to do block in M&amp;A opportunities? Yeah.
Well let me respond to that.
The capital generation is roughly what we have articulated in the past and our best estimate is a couple of hundred million dollars per year.
I don’t want you to put too fine a point on for instance the cushion on what we could or couldn’t do with that because that cushion is kind of a long-term view of how much excess capital we would all things being equal want to have.
But if we get an opportunity and it would involve deploying some of the capital that theoretically is part of our cushion I mean we would certainly consider that because we can rebuild the cushion and there is nothing magic about the $300 million number that we’ve articulated.
So we like to think we’ve got a fairly significant amount of flexibility in terms of capital deployment if the right opportunities come along.
Thanks for the answer.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go next to Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I want to go first to the disability business.
To the extent that the results were more in line versus some of the quarters last year is that reflecting just underlying experience being a bit better or by this point has the book changed a bit either with rate increases or some terminations? It’s a little bit of both but the experience was good in the quarter.
We are always looking to take actions when we can and a lot of those contracts especially the US renewal at the beginning of the year.
So there is an opportunity to re-price the situation.
But again there is fluctuations in that business quite often and we try not to overreact to it.
Okay.
And then the other thing just to kind of put a little bit of a fine point on it.
I think you characterized US individual mortality as being slightly unfavorable to expectations.
But I wasn’t sure what you were using for a bogey is it sort of the four quarter average or were you comparing it just sort of a seasonally adjusted first quarter expectation? No Jeff it was adverse even compared to a seasonally adjusted.
It was not a good quarter.
But again those things always moved out over time.
We’re not particularly worried about it.
It’s just sort of a one quarter thing at this point.
Understood.
Okay thank you.
And at this time with no additional questions in the queue I’d like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks to everyone who joined us this morning.
We appreciate your interest.
And with that we’ll end our first quarter earnings call.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America’s Q2 2012 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Grieg Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay thank you and good morning to everyone and welcome to RGA’s Q2 2012 conference call.
Joining me this morning is Grieg Woodring our CEO.
I’ll turn the call over to Grieg after a quick reminder about our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Grieg’s prepared remarks we’ll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we’ll make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at RGARe.com.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Grieg.
Thank you Jack and good morning to everyone.
Yesterday we reported Q2 after-tax operating income of $122 million or $1.65 per diluted share up $0.05 cents $1.60 per share last year.
Foreign currency fluctuations adversely affected the current quarter by about $0.03 per share and the slightly higher effective tax rate had an adverse impact of another $0.03.
Overall Q2 results were stable but a bit below our expectations primarily due to mixed claim results in some of our key markets.
But we did have several bright spots during the quarter as well.
Despite foreign currency headwinds reported net premiums were solid increasing 9% quarter-over-quarter; and ignoring those currency effect premiums rose 12%.
Our US Group and Individual Health lines performed well this quarter and we executed a significant deferred annuity reinsurance transaction in our US Asset-Intensive sub-segment.
Our financial reinsurance business continues to thrive domestically as well as abroad.
Claims experience in Canada was in line with expectations as it was for most of our markets.
We did see somewhat higher than expected claims in the US individual mortality as well as in the UK and Australia this quarter.
Investment income decreased $9 million or 3% quarter-over-quarter including a $45 million decline in the fair value of option contracts supporting equity index annuities and an increase from the annuity transaction that I mentioned.
Excluding those items investment income was flat compared to Q2 2011 as the increase in invested assets was offset by the drag of declining new money yields.
The average portfolio yield remained at 5.05% as it was last quarter which is down 30 basis points from last year’s Q2.
Our balance sheet and overall capitalization remains strong.
We’re pleased to report a 33% increase in our quarterly dividend per share which as announced yesterday rises from $0.18 to $0.24 per share.
Booked value per share increased to $84.75 including AOCI and to $60.34 without it.
Turning now to our segment results our US traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $96 million an increase of 5% over last year’s $91 million.
Individual mortality experience was slightly adverse but the group and individual health lines performed well.
Premiums were up 11% quarter-over-quarter benefiting from an in force transaction executed in Q1 of this year.
Our US asset intensive sub-segment posted pre-tax operating income of $17 million down from $20 million last year and that’s reflecting a relatively weak equity market performance in the current period.
The current quarter also includes the results of a large fixed deferred annuity reinsurance transaction.
We invested approximately $350 million of capital in that transaction and expect to earn a 13% return over the life of the business earning a bit less in the first several quarters while we reposition the investment portfolio.
For Q2 the annualized ROE on this transaction was approximately 7% and we expect the return on the transaction to total 10% overall for 2012.
Our financial reinsurance business continues to perform well growing pre-tax operating income to $10 million this quarter up from $7 million a year ago.
Turning to Canada pre-tax operating income declined to $31 million in Q2 from $42 million last year.
Current period claims experience was in line with expectations while claims were better than expected last year.
Foreign currency movement adversely affected pre-tax operating income by $3 million.
Forwarded premiums increased 5% in Canada to $221 million this quarter and in local currency premiums were up 10%.
Turning to our international operations first in Asia-Pacific pre-tax operating income totaled $23 million this quarter a sharp increase over $5 million produced in last year’s Q2 when we had adverse claims experiences in Australia and Japan.
This quarter we experienced slightly higher than expected claims in Australia but all of the other Asia-Pacific markets produced good results including good growth in financial reinsurance fees.
Net premiums increased 5% to $332 million including adverse foreign exchange effects of $13 million.
Excluding currency fluctuations premiums were up 9% quarter-over-quarter in original currency terms.
Next in Europe and South Africa pre-tax operating income was $18 million this period up from $12 million last year.
Claims were slightly elevated in the UK but several other European markets benefited from favorable claims experience.
Reported premiums were $310 million a 10% increase over last year.
Original currency premiums were up a strong 18% over Q2 2011.
Our corporate segment results have been trending below prior year comparables this year as we have allocated relatively more assets and investment income to support our other segments’ growing capital requirements which are based on an internal capital model.
We expect this trend to continue throughout 2012 and believe the Q2 results in the corporate segment serve as a reasonable estimate of what to expect going forward.
On a consolidated basis investment income is in line with expectations through the first six months of the year.
The effective tax rate during Q2 was 34.9% somewhat higher than anticipated driven in part by an increase to the total tax provision associated with the expiration of active financing exception or AFE.
So overall we’re pleased with Q2 which generated an annualized operating return on equity of 11%.
For the trailing twelve months operating ROE was 12% despite the ongoing effect of lower investment yields.
We continue to benefit from our geographic diversification.
On a year-to-date basis our premiums and bottom line are generally in line with our expectations.
We invested a significant amount of our deployable capital into the fixed annuity transaction and expect to earn an attractive long-term return on that capital.
Following that transaction we still have some flexibility with $100 million to $200 million of excess capital remaining and that amount should continue to build.
Further we feel we have some capacity to issue additional senior debt as well.
The annuity transaction adds over $5 billion of invested assets to our balance sheet.
All of RGA’s asset leverage remains below average for the life insurance industry.
We expect our relative sensitivity to equity and interest rate movements to continue to be less than the average life insurance company as well.
Our success will still be driven primarily by our ability to effectively price mortality and morbidity risks.
Our life insurance [assumed] in force has grown to almost $2.8 trillion and we continue to review a number of [block] and in force opportunities with various markets around the world.
We thank you and we appreciate your support and interest in RGA and we’ll now take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions.)  We’ll take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Hi good morning.
I was wondering if you could give us a little more granularity in terms of results in the asset intensive business.
If you assume that the acquired block had a 7% ROE annualized in Q2 it means that maybe earnings were around $6 million or so.
And when you take that out of the $17 million you reported for asset intensive it seems like the legacy RGA business performed very poorly.
So what happened there?  What are your expectations going forward? And then secondly you’ve had elevated mortality in the US business for several quarters or the last couple of quarters but with a relatively high daily frequency over the last year or two years as well.
So have you seen anything in the underlying book that might make you rethink what your long-term margin expectations are for the US business? Jimmy this is Jack.
Let me respond to the asset intensive business results question.
I think you’ve got the relative contribution from the large block transaction pegged pretty closely.
The legacy business I wouldn’t suggest that it underperformed what were your exact words – “underperformed significantly” or something like that.
It was a little weaker than our typical run rate which I would characterize at about $70 million per year pre-tax on that business and we have no reason to believe we won’t be in and around that number for the year.
That is the business other than the block that we put on this quarter.
So we’re quite comfortable with it.
Sometimes the last rates will spike in earnings a little bit from quarter to quarter so it’s not unusual for that to move around a little bit but we’re very comfortable with the overall performance of that underlying business.
In terms of mortality Jimmy the US has not had a particularly good run in the last let’s say five or six quarters – there’s been some good periods and some weaker periods.
We continue to see elevated claims from the period of issues in the last couple of years from the ‘90s and the early part of the 2000’s and when we get a surge in those claims it seems to be the biggest culprit of our in force block.
And that was particularly the case here in Q2 too.
This was a little odd in Q2 since it was more of a frequency than severity issue in Q2 but we believe that we have a good handle on what to expect going forward but we are still fighting though with that particular band of issues from as we’ve mentioned a couple times in the past from around ’97 or ’98 until about 2003 or so.
And then just one more on the European business; the margins there were slightly weaker as well.
I think you mentioned you might have had high UK claims but I’m wondering was that mortality or was that critical illness again? In Q2 it was more mortality than critical illness I believe.
The UK was a little bit off not terrible but again it’s one of our bigger businesses so we really had none of our four largest businesses – US UK Canada or Australia – performing exceptionally well.
Canada was in line which was a deviation for them because they’re usually better than expected in recent years; and Australia had a good bounce back on the disability side so very good results on the disability side but disappointing results in terms of mortality and lump sum business.
Okay thank you.
I’ll take our next question from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
First on the Hancock transaction I think you mentioned it was a 7% ROE this quarter hoping for it to be at 10% for the full year.
I think that’s a lot lower than many investors would have expected.
So if you can discuss where you ultimately expect that ROE to get to perhaps discuss some of the steps that you’re taking to improve those returns and whether low interest rates are potential headwinds to achieve those returns.
Second given the transaction you’ve used a significant portion of your excess capital but I believe the top line of potential block transactions is still very robust.
So if there are attractive opportunities how would you expect to finance any further transactions?  Thanks.
Yeah Nigel first of all on the John Hancock transaction we booked essentially a fairly small amount of profit this quarter; it was for a small portion of the quarter.
We need to reposition the portfolio to be a little longer because of the way we manage these assets compared to how they were managed before so that’ll take a little while.
We expect this if you think about our mix of capital and debt to be a return that exceeds most of our pricing returns that we’re pricing for today we’re talking about an unlevered return of 13% and a levered return of something in excess of 15% ultimately.
But we will be essentially lengthening the portfolio a little bit as the year goes on and we expect to get the assets next week now that everything seems to be in order to get that transfer over.
So until we get that we can’t reposition the portfolio.
The level of rates where they are today was built into all of our pricing and I think we have every confidence this business is going to perform quite well for us.
In terms of our excess capital yeah we do have a bursting pipeline and I can let Jack comment on the level of capital and how he sees that going forward in terms of additions to it and so forth.
But we do have a bursting pipeline lots of opportunities.
They run the gamut both geographically and in size and so we are very carefully watching that and hope to do more transactions.
Yeah the pipeline to which Greig refers is activity – it’s not signed deals – but you know there’s certainly a lot of activity as he indicated.
In terms of how we would finance that it really depends on the size of the deal.
You can almost look at our underlying generic growth rate and if you look at it historically it’s moderated quite a bit over the last six eight years of so.
So we’re really enhancing the growth rate with any kind of block or M&amp;A sort of deal.
And to the extent that those deals are modest in size we likely unless we pile up quite a few all at once we can likely finance those internally.
If we do any large M&amp;A deals then I think it’s probably more obvious we can’t necessarily finance that internally and we would have to go to the capital markets with some mixture of capital; and it all depends on the deal and the relative return in terms of how we would finance.
But it would have to be a fairly large deal before we’d have to go to the capital markets.
Okay very helpful.
Just a couple of other questions numbers questions as well: tax rate – what should we expect for the remainder of the year?  And also corporate expenses remain high and have been at this level for several quarters now.
Should we view this level of losses as an appropriate run rate? Okay first on the tax rate unfortunately it does tend to bounce around from quarter to quarter.
That’s why we’re reluctant to give an estimate per quarter of what you should expect but annually it really should settle in between 33% and 34% and you can almost cut it right down the middle that 33.5% would be our best estimate at this point going forward.
We’ll likely not see that in any particular quarter but over time that’s what we would expect.
In terms of the corporate segment we have because of the growing business volumes in all the operating segments we tend to allocate more capital which drives the investment income allocation.
So we’ve allocated more capital to those segments and as a result we are attributing more of the investment income to those segments; and as a result there’s less attributed to the corporate segment.
So I think going forward you can almost expect something around a break even sort of performance and it won’t be there in any one quarter because there’s a little bit of volatility there but over time that’s probably our best estimate at this point.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to circle back with a few more questions on the Hancock transaction.
I’m a little bit confused by some simple stupid arithmetic I guess.
Grieg it sounded like you were telling us that it would take a while to ramp to 13% but I guess simple arithmetic would say if you’re going to do 10% over the second half and you did 7% this quarter that you would have to ramp pretty quickly towards the 13%.
So I’m a little unclear about the trajectory I guess.
Yeah this is Jack – maybe I can help with that.
As Grieg said during Q2 we didn’t have our hands on those assets so to speak.
They weren’t transferred… This is the Operator.
It looks like we have lost connection with our speakers.
Just remain on the line and I will let everyone know when they have rejoined us.
And our speakers have rejoined us at this time.
Operator this is Jack.
We’re back online then? You are back online with your participants.
Okay sorry about that.
It’s not real clear where we dropped off or where the malfunction was.
Jeff maybe you could comment on how much you heard of my response? Thank you.
Okay Jack can you hear me now? Yes I can.
Okay sorry.
I don’t think I heard much of your response.
My question which I didn’t ask terribly well was just trying to get a better fix on the exact ramp of those returns on the Hancock business because it seems like if you’re starting at 7% and do 10% for the year that you might actually ramp quickly towards 13%.
Yeah.
That in fact is the case.
We haven’t received those assets yet.
We should early next week actually execute the transfer of the assets and until that happens we couldn’t reposition the portfolio.
So we will in short order take a look at repositioning roughly 30% of that portfolio or so and we would expect to do that reasonably quickly.
You don’t do that in a week but we think that a lot of it will take place in Q3 the remainder in Q4 so that by the end of Q4 we will be at roughly a run rate so to speak in terms of ROE.
Okay and just to be clear on kind of economics versus GAAP one would think that if you’re selling assets and reinvesting in this environment that that kind of hurts what you print for GAAP operating income but would generate net income in the form of some gains.
But when you talk about the 10% or the 13% that’s what we would actually see emerge on an operating basis with the new lower coupons?  Is that right? Yes that’s right.
Okay.
And the other thing I wanted to ask about just to give a little finer point I guess to capital capacity – I think you said about $100 million to $200 million but we’ve never known you to push really hard against the envelope.
I’m wondering to what extent all that’s really available.
And then I don’t have the metrics in front of me; I was thinking debt to cap was around 25%.
Maybe you can remind us what it is and kind of what your cap is.
Yeah in terms of the first part of that question we would not be reluctant to use that capital if the right opportunities came along.
And keep in mind we are adding to that base $50 million or more per quarter.
So I would think of that as capital that can be deployed into the business.
In terms of leverage rates and that sort of thing and it depends on which ratio you’re using and which rating agency you’re focusing upon but we think we probably have $200 million to $300 million probably closer to $300 million of leverage ability at this point – that is capacity to issue additional senior notes of some sort.
And what is [debt to] cap? It’s a little less than 25%.
And the $300 million would get you to what? Like I said it depends on which ratio you’re looking at.
It would modestly exceed at least one of the agency’s ratios but we think we would be able to whittle it down pretty quickly just because of the earnings power of the company.
So that’s a best guess without broader discussions with the agencies but that’s our best feel right now in terms of leveragability.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
And we’ll go next to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Hey good morning.
I was just hoping that you could quantify how far above your expectation claims were this quarter on a consolidated level.
Ryan this is Jack.
You know if you want to convert it to a cents per share it’s in the probably $0.13 to $0.15 per share range.
And does that include the asset intensive segment as well?  Or is that just mortality claims? Yeah think of that as just the mortality and health businesses.
Okay so some additional increment on top of that from the weaker equity market and (inaudible)? That’s right.
And then just on the transaction pipeline it sounds like a lot’s going on.
Can you give us some sense of is it across the globe is it focused in certain geographic areas and also the type of products you’re looking at? Yeah Ryan.
It is around the globe.
It’s various different products.
Mostly we love to get as much mortality risk as we can so our focus in many cases is on the mortality portfolios.
That’s not always available but whenever it is that’s our primary focus.
We are very often supporting companies that are making acquisitions when they’re very large acquisitions and at the same time we are bidding on closed blocks ourselves.
So there’s a wide range and a combination of different possibilities that we are looking at but the people who work on those sorts of things are very busy right now and that’s been the case for the last six months or so.
These things take a long time to move through to a completed stage but we are pushing a lot of them through.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning everybody.
I just wanted to get a clarification on the fixed annuity deal.
I guess during this call there’s been talk of both 13% and then 15% levered or unlevered.
As you’re deploying $350 million of capital here that doesn’t sound like that’s $350 million of equity so shouldn’t we be thinking more about the 10% for this year gliding up to 15% as opposed to 13%? Yeah John that’s true.
If you wanted to say what is the levered return that is using the same mix as debt and equity that backs all of our other liabilities you would be more in the 15% camp.
If you look at it marginally incrementally we are putting capital to work unlevered at 13% or so.
So yes.
Okay okay.
And so then if my math is reasonable and I’m thinking about that 10% ROE is that for the three quarters I assume that that would contribute to this year; then that’s about $0.30 $0.35 per share.
I’m wondering how we should think about your guidance that you provided to us a couple of quarters ago of $6.70 to $7.30? Yeah one comment on our calculation.
We’re using existing capital which was earning at some investment rate so you’ve got to be careful that you look at incremental earnings versus the absolute return on that transaction.
Okay that’s helpful.
And our guidance did not contemplate any it contemplated some degree of blocked deals but not at that size.
So yeah I think your point is our original guidance didn’t include the Hancock transaction and that would be accurate.
Okay and then just again sort of thinking about guidance: over the last week or so as we’ve sort of launched into Q2 earnings for this sector it’s pretty clear that given the decline in both interest rates and I guess investment rates over the past three or six months that most companies either formally or informally have sort of been talking about this incremental pressure that wasn’t necessarily baked into or at least not at this length baked into that original guidance.
Should we think about some incremental pressure relative to what you had been baking into that guidance as well? Yeah John I think you should but it’s not dramatic.
I think we contemplated that lower rates would hurt us by $0.15 per share or so if you just looked year over year during 2012 and new money rates have come down somewhat to what we used to go through that calculation but not dramatically.
So it’s a little more headwind maybe $0.02 or $0.03 more but not a whole lot.
Yeah that difference is likely dwarfed by just the statistical fluctuation of actual experience.
Yeah okay that was my sense; good to get the clarification.
And then finally just can you discuss the financial reinsurance business a bit more I mean particularly in Asia-Pacific where I’m not sure if that’s entirely driven by the financial reinsurance business.
But the other revenue line in Asia-Pacific was very very strong this quarter – how should we think about that business?  Is that sort of one-time fee revenues or is that something that should continue? Yeah John it should continue but I’m glad you raised that point because in the Asia-Pacific segment if you just look at ratios compared to premium some of them look a little odd and it’s driven very little by financial reinsurance.
We had one client that wanted to recapture treaties primarily because of administrative issues on their end.
So the treaties were recaptured and rewritten in a way that was easier for the client company to administer and unfortunately that created some noise.
There was no bottom line impact but it did create some noise in the Asia-Pacific segment P&amp;L and let me give you a feel for the type of noise I’m referencing.
Other revenue increased by $12 million solely associated with that recapture so that $12 million you can think of that as unusual or one-time in other revenues associated with that recapture.
At the same time the reserve line or the claims and policy benefits line was reduced by about $23 million and the policy acquisition costs which is really the difference – that line was increased by about $35 million.
So those al net to zero and it created some noise but unfortunately that was the appropriate way to handle it in terms of GAAP reporting.
So that’s just one of those things but it did create noise in that particular segment’s operating results.
Alright thank you very much; that’s very helpful.
And just sort of overall expectations for the financial reinsurance business?  I mean even if you just look at the domestic business it looks like the fee revenues continue; it sounds like at a minimum [Stancorp] which I believe you guys did a deal with them last year it sounds like they’re looking to do another one this year.
What’s your outlook there Grieg? Our financial reinsurance business is very robust and very strong right now.
It is especially in Asia and to some extent in the US.
Europe is less so but a little bit of activity there as well and we see that continuing.
Financial reinsurance provides a nice fee income basis.
It’s a very technical business.
It’s important to structure those transactions appropriately and correctly and we have a good team that does that.
Thanks very much guys.
We’ll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Good morning everybody.
A lot of my questions were asked already I have just a few.
Jack Q3 tax settlement FIN 48 benefit – just thoughts on whether we’ll be seeing that or not? Steven our best estimate right now is we will not have a year or multiple years’ returns roll off in Q3.
So I would expect to have no impact associated with FIN 48 no [negative] impact I should say.
Okay if I remember correctly there wasn’t one last year either.
Is there anything in particular going on? Well yeah there kind of is something going on not negative.
We’re no longer part of the…  We were at one time as you can imagine part of the Met Life consolidated IRS examination process.
We are not at this point so then the IRS has determined a) they never examined specifically our US tax returns and they’ve asked for extensions to that they can get the team up to speed and that sort of thing.
And as a result we’ve had a kind of discontinuity relative to FIN 48 and years rolling off.
It’s nothing alarming or anything; it’s more a timing situation.
And then just so I’m clear here the amount of money you were saying is excess capital $100 million to $200 million – that was north of some buffer or not? No that ignores any kind of a buffer or a cushion that we’d want to maintain.
Steven as we’ve said in the past the cushion is kind of a long-term nice to have.
That’s something that we really kind of live by day to day in terms of making capital deployment decisions.
Okay and then one more if I may: Grieg with regards to your comment that there was a lot of deal activity both in products and geography I’m kind of wondering if some of this or a lot of this is in Europe and may be driven by [Solvency II] considerations? Yes Steven some of it’s driven by Solvency II although we haven’t seen a lot of Solvency II-motivated transactions move their way through the pipeline yet.
But certainly that is something that the Europeans especially are focusing on and we’re beginning to see a little more activity there.
But that’s just part of the puzzle.
Okay alright.
Thank you guys.
(Operator instructions.)  We’ll go next to Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Good morning everybody.
Just a couple of questions: for the dividend increase I’m just kind of looking at a long-term perspective what is your definite payout ratio that you target at? Lee I think we’ve had sort of a modest dividend payout ratio.
As we start to generate distributable earnings in greater quantity even though we have a lot of opportunities we have been bumping up the dividends.
And you’ll notice if you put the last couple years together it’s been a pretty nice increase in the dividend payout of the company.
Our ratio is still not on the high side; it’s on the lower side and obviously we believe that that’s a sustainable number for us as we sit here today.
And we would hope that we have more flexibility in the future even.
But our philosophy is to try to use our capital efficiently and try to reward our shareholders effectively and so we have moved the dividend considerably if you look over the last two years now.
Okay.
And then another question regarding the premium growth.
(Inaudible) the premium growth had been stronger than what the guidance would suggest so I just wondered in terms of how the top line would trend for the balance of the year.
Yeah the premium growth has been strong.
A lot of that had to do with some things that we did towards the end of the year and in Q1 of this year.
It’s been a very rewarding period of time and as we indicated we have a lot of unusual transactions in the pipeline.
Now our background behind all that of course is that our client companies are retaining more business reinsuring less business on an organic basis; and so as we were putting our guidance together we were looking at that picture as well and trying to balance what was going to happen in terms of the unusual transactions in force deals and other things that add on to that story.
And it’s always a little bit hard to predict but we’re very pleased with the strong growth that we’re getting really in all of our segments.
In Asia we’ve had as some of you will remember over conversations of the last several quarters we’ve been refilling pipelines in both Korea and Japan and that exercise continues.
Those were resulting from contracts that ran their natural course of life or are no longer producing and we had to replace a significant contracts flow in each of those markets.
And I think we’re probably at the point where we can say we are doing that in Korea and Japan is still chasing the replacement but we’re getting there.
So Asia is actually a place of very strong growth outside of that and so that’s not come through the numbers very well either.
I think once we get to the other side we’ll see good growth in Asia.
So kind of from a [momentum] perspective how should I look at it for the reminder of the year?  The pace should stay strong across regions and a little bit stronger pace across Asia-Pacific? Yeah I think we should expect Asia-Pacific to catch up.
The Europe segment has been real strong last year and so is strong again this year.
The US is a little stronger than we would expect it to be and part of that is because of timing of different flows in the first part of the year – a little bit of improvement around lapses so that’s helped around the edges.
So we’re actually at a little bit higher than we would expect the run rate to be in the US but overall premium growth in the 12% range is probably a little on the high side but I would expect we’d be close to 10% on a run rate these days and we feel pretty good about that sort of a forecast.
Alright this is helpful.
Thanks.
We’ll go next to Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on the EPS guidance for 2012 of $6.70 to $7.30.
I know you typically don’t update that during the year but just given that we’re tracking year-to-date so far below that could you just give us a sense at least directionally of whether you still think that’s achievable and why? Sarah this is Jack.
As you stated we really don’t update our guidance after we issue it early in the year.
But Grieg had commented earlier that while the results for the first half have been soft they’re not far from our expectations.
So we don’t view the year-to-date as being dramatically off where we would expect it to be.
In fact it’s reasonably close to where we would have expected to be.
So you can kind of take that as a baseline for where we’d expect to be.
Historically the second half of the year is bigger numbers than the first half of the year but we really don’t like to change our guidance after we do it once a year.
Okay great thanks.
And we’ll go next to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Good morning.
One question or two questions actually on the Hancock trade.
What is the duration of the assets that you are taking on and what is the effect of duration of the liabilities?  And then where do you expect the asset duration to go? Mark the liability duration is roughly seven and the asset duration that we’re taking on is a little less than five.
So we’ll be lengthening that.
I guess are you trying to get the two to match or are you going to go long assets? No we’ll try to match.
Okay.
And then is there any anticipated change in asset mix in terms of what you’re going to buy versus the credit quality of what you’re taking on? Well certainly there will be some changes just because it was a fairly generic portfolio – a fairly generic fairly short portfolio that we took on.
But we will end up with an asset mix in terms of credit quality with which we are very comfortable.
Okay alright.
Thank you.
And there are no other questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Actually we did just have one other question come in.
We have Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Thank you good morning.
I just had one question as a follow-up to asset intensive.
What exactly is the impact from lower equity markets?  I mean where do we see that flow through the income statement because the markets weren’t down… I mean it wasn’t a terrible quarter for the equity markets.
No it wasn’t and I think we mentioned earlier that to the extent that we had somewhat of a soft result it was due in part to equity market performance but also to lapse-ation issues and all the drivers that typically have an effect on that business.
But on one block that’s performed very well historically for us we had a little bit of a spike in lapses this particular quarter that caused us to earn less than we expected on that block.
That’s the biggest part of what happened in this quarter.
Okay.
Can you just remind us what your exposure to variable annuities are?  I know you break out your death benefit and living benefit exposure but what exactly are you I guess guaranteeing with those contracts? Yeah Sean I may want to direct you to the QFS that’s on our website where we I think it’s on Page 8 we do a pretty good [job of it].
And we’ve got the VA business and the various living benefit writers there and the relative proportion of each and the [living] proportion is GMWBs or withdrawal benefits.
The balances are a couple billion dollars on that business with benefits.
Okay thank you.
And there are no other questions at this time.
Okay well thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
Sorry for the technical glitch earlier and we appreciate your support and interest.
And to the extent that you have any other questions feel free to call us here in St.
Louis.
And with that we’ll end the call.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Third Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay thank you.
Good morning and welcome to everyone to RGA's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
We appreciate you joining us on short notice this morning.
We accelerated our earnings release this quarter since in a couple of markets we experienced unusually high claims volumes.
And in one case added to our IBNR accruals that would be in Australia.
Joining me this morning is Greig Woodring our CEO.
I'll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig's prepared remarks we'll open the lines for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause those actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As reported in yesterday's release we had a difficult quarter and our operating results were significantly affected by high claim levels in the U.S.
and particularly in Australia including an adjustment to the claims liabilities for Australian group business.
Collectively these items lowered earnings by about $0.66 a share $0.43 of that was Australia.
After-tax operating income totaled $100 million or $1.35 per share down about 28% on both counts from the prior-year quarter.
Foreign currency fluctuations also adversely affected current quarter by about $0.04 and the low rate environment continues to put some downward pressure on investment income.
Reported net premiums were solid up 8% for the quarter 9% ignoring foreign currency headwinds.
I'll talk mostly and in more depth about our U.S.
and Australia experience in a moment but just a comment the rest of our operations performed well this quarter pretty much across the board.
All the markets in our Asia-Pacific segment outside of Australia met or exceeded expectations as did substantially all of our Europe and South Africa operations as well as a couple in the U.S.
Our conservative investment portfolio remain stable and continues to grow ignoring spread business.
Investment income was up slightly quarter-over-quarter.
The portfolio grew $1.3 billion but the average yield was down 31 basis points from the third quarter of 2011 due to the combination of low rate environment and the holding of relatively higher level of short-term investments in cash as we work to invest proceeds of our $400 million subordinated debt offering which was in August.
The average yield was down 8 basis points from the second quarter of this year.
We're nearing completion of repositioning the assets associated with the large annuity block we acquired in the second quarter.
As part of that repositioning we have sold short-term securities at a gain and reinvested in longer-duration securities with higher yields.
Book value per share increased to $91.18 including AOCI and to $62.05 without it.
Our net unrealized capital gain position now exceeds $1.9 billion and accounts for almost 90% of that roughly $29 per share difference.
Operating ROE was about 9% for the quarter and stands at a little over 10% year-to-date.
Getting back now to Australia and U.S.
results let me start with the Australian results.
Australia experienced adverse mortality claims and somewhat poor individual disability results.
It was more of the former.
In addition to that regular review of group IBNR 4 groups have developed significant credibility in their history now for us to peg the IBNR a little bit more accurately.
So we looked at that and because those results were coming in a little adversely we increased the reserves about $28 million.
That's 12% of the total reserves.
The total pretax loss for Australian operations was $36 million.
We continue to closely monitor and analyze this business and we're exploring opportunities to improve its performance.
Clearly Australia has had negative fluctuations now after a long string of very good results but negative fluctuations for different reasons since the last quarter of 2010.
Results in the U.S.
were below expectations.
This was split almost evenly between individual and group operations.
Individual mortality was about $14 million more than our expectations.
While that's adverse it's within a standard deviation and actually claims experience year-to-date is actually a little bit better than last year.
The experience suffered from claims frequency more than severity in this third quarter and that's something that levels out over time typically.
Our U.S.
group business actually has 4 subsegments to it.
3 of those 4 subsegments life and accident LTD and excess medical all experienced about $4 million excess claims.
And with all 3 of them going in the same direction it was a bad quarter for the group business.
We saw the U.S.
group results be about $12 million short for the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis 2 of those segments life and accident and LTD are pretty much in line with expectations and the excess medical business is behind expectations year-to-date.
But bear in mind that on a very few large medical claims not a significant item in our opinion we expect volatility to occur in this line and due to the large claims that volatility is apparent in this quarter in particular.
To remind you that on the group side we are always readjusting prices because these are short-term contracts and we continue to do that as we go along here.
So in all our U.S.
Traditional subsegment reported pretax operating income of $72 million down from $80 million in last year's third quarter.
Premiums were up about 8%.
So a couple more words about some of our other operations quickly and then we'll turn it over to questions.
Our U.S.
Asset Intensive subsegment posted pretax operating income of $27 million up a couple of million from last year reflecting relatively strong equity market.
I'm sorry up from a couple of million $2 million last year.
So substantial increase reflecting relatively strong equity market performance this year as opposed to last year which was weaker.
The S&amp;P 500 Index rose 5.8% compared to a drop of 14% last year so that's part of the -- a big part of the reason.
Financial Reinsurance continue to perform well adding $8.3 million to the pretax operating income this quarter.
Pretax operating income totaled $28 million with claims experience in line with expectations.
This is in Canada now.
So it's good experience not the outstanding experience we have reported in recent quarters in Canada but good experience.
Premiums increased 23% in Canada and local currency premiums are up 25%.
So it's a strong revenue quarter for the Canadian operation.
In Asia-Pacific income ex Australia was quite strong.
Pretax operating income was $15 million for the quarter and that reflects good performance in virtually all of our markets except Australia.
Net premiums for this segment increased slightly over the quarter not significantly.
In Europe and South Africa pretax operating income was $25 million for the quarter.
Again a very good result better than expected and driven by favorable results in almost all markets especially the U.K France and India.
Reported premiums rose 6% over last year's quarter and 12% in local currencies.
Corporate segment pretax operating loss is about $6 million similar to the second quarter and as indicated last year -- last quarter we expect about the same result in the fourth quarter.
We're as you can imagine quite disappointed with the results in the U.S.
and Australia this quarter.
Operating ROE at 10% through 3 quarters is on the low side for us but historically the fourth quarter is our strongest quarter and we look forward to this fourth quarter coming up to hopefully repair some of the damage.
With that I think we'll turn it over to any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Jam Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
The first one just on Australia.
This is obviously the second charge that you've taken in 4 quarters.
How long do you expect the margins to be weak in that business? And then related -- and then if you could talk a little bit about how soon can you reprice the contracts what is it how much are you pricing them -- pricing them higher by? And then related to that for the overall business when you've talked about earnings guidance and return expectations I think your guidance has implied an ROE maybe slightly higher than 11% close to 12%.
How do the issues that you've seen in Australia and also just the margins the way they've been in the U.S.
affect your expectations for returns in 2013? Yes Jimmy first of all we are trying to get out in front of this group experience in Australia.
We haven't really seen terrible group experience in Australia unfolding but we significantly increased a couple of reserves because we anticipate based on early results that that's starting to develop.
We've been saying that the group market in Australia has gone from nicely profitable to very competitive and it's a little bit challenging.
But we're taking actions to get in front of it and because the contracts are short-term they're a little longer than typical in the U.S.
where it's almost everyone of them is done annually.
Australia's contracts typically run for up to 3 years and so there is some repricing that's done on a 3-year basis.
But the individual groups we are taking active roles in them.
And we took a disability LTD and disability increase last year.
Experience has been okay on that this year.
The group LTD business in Australia has been fine.
It's more of a couple individual companies this time a couple of individual quotes that has been the problem that we reserved for in this quarter.
So yes the unsatisfying part of this is while Australia has had several different bad quarters and an occasional good quarter like the first quarter thrown in the problem seemed to be different each time.
And part of that is the fact that this is a fairly large operation that has large risks that are somewhat volatile.
The group market is getting increasingly competitive.
We have over the last little while very much slowed down our growth in the group business to a near standstill if anything.
And the problems with individual claims go back to prior in the decade.
So there's a lot of things that we're trying to strengthen in that Australian operation including a focus on providing stability better information better infrastructure and support a lot more claims management and so forth.
Those things will take hold and -- but we're working on that.
We at this point we don't have any backlog or gunnysack of any looming problems in Australia and that's typically been the case.
We've reserved -- when we saw the beginning of a problem we reserved adequately for it.
But in Australia unfortunately we've seen a couple of different problems emerge and that's what's happened over the last couple of years.
This is Jack.
Maybe just a follow-on I think you had asked a question about return expectations into next year and yes the situation that we've addressed particularly on Australia in third the quarter this year doesn't really have a dramatic effect on our return expectations going forward.
It's a relatively minor part of our business and so our longer-term return expectations are not particularly affected by poor results in the third quarter this year.
Research Division</strong> And then I was a little bit surprised that you mentioned that U.S.
for the year-to-date period is actually emerging slightly better than expected.
If I look at the lost-benefit ratio it's been around 88% so far through the first 3 quarters.
And even if I add up the earnings that you've earned in the traditional U.S.
business I think close to $231 million year-to-date that's lower than what you've had the first 3 quarters last year the year before and the year before that.
So it seems like the margins are actually slightly worse than they've been at least the last few years.
So my question was like is this really a normal quarter? It seems like the results are slightly worse than you've been reporting the last several years.
No it's definitely not a normal quarter.
Research Division</strong> For a normal year-to-date period.
Well I think what I tried to say is I think our actual-to-expected ratios are slightly better this year than they were last year but they're similar.
And in fact the U.S.
mortality as you know has had more difficult quarters than -- and neither one of those years is particularly good.
They're slightly subpar.
They're not -- we're not over a standard deviation or anything like that.
But we've had more bad quarters than good quarters in the last several years and that mostly goes back to that business written in the early part of the decade where mortality rates because our supposition is to some extent a supposition that there was not only some excess mortality in there but it was also came about because of lax underwriting and -- in the industry and in some of our client companies because if you take our mortality rate for say a 50-year old and then you look at the same rate for policies issued in that area it's a little higher.
No reason that we should expect that.
So we're seeing a little bit of that.
Now this quarter it's too early to make that determination because we have to get all that data and exposures exactly in but -- and it actually doesn't seem like that's the case.
There's some high-level things that would sort of indicate that's a different a different problem more of a real fluctuation this quarter.
But nevertheless the last few years in our individual mortality business has been in the low part of where we would expect our individual life mortality results to be.
And while I think the actual to expected ratios are slightly better this year neither one of those years is a good year.
I didn't want to leave that impression.
And we will go next to Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just on the U.S.
Traditional business can you discuss whether you've seen any delays in the company's reporting claims to you? Seems like a lot of the primary writers have this mentality in the second quarter.
I was wondering whether that's what we're seeing impact your results this quarter.
Then on Australia you mentioned most of the business is 3-year life but where in that 3-year life are we today? Or put differently how much of that group disability exposure should we expect to roll off this year and next? And then just last if you can discuss the progress you've made in extending the duration of the Hancock fixed annuity blocks investment portfolio? I'm sorry.
The first question again Nigel? Research Division</strong> Delays in claims.
Delays in claims.
No I don't think we've seen any delays in claims.
We're usually pretty current.
Some reporting where we have large number of policies with small amounts are reported quarterly but we approve for that.
And so you're really talking about different estimations at different times.
I think we're pretty current.
We did see a real surge in number of claims come through in the very last week of September.
Those things happen from time to time and I didn't see anything unusual about any of the reporting on that.
When I talk about the group business being 3 years each different group case would have its own starting point.
So some are nearly expired some are one year in some are 2 years in.
And that's the sort of situation you have.
And we like I said we've some time ago adjusted our expectations in terms of how much growth we're going to see out of that group business.
We're trying to trying to stay in the business but it has become quite competitive after a number of good years.
And we've seen that.
We really haven't had like I said terrible experience so a lot of these actions are getting out in front of it as opposed to reflecting terrible actual claims coming in at this point on the group side.
And most of Australia other than that group IBNR increase has been individual mortality and critical illness claims.
That's most of the damage which was a poor second quarter and a poor third quarter in that category.
Nigel on -- excuse me this is Jack.
On the Hancock portfolio we're pretty much through as we sit here today the repositioning of that portfolio.
A lot of it took place during the latter part of the third quarter and into October but we are about there.
We have repositioned over $2 billion at this point of that portfolio.
So we think going forward we'll be fairly close to a run rate so to speak on that business in terms of earnings and return.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the return after repositioning have you hit the target laid out...
Yes.
Yes we have.
And we will go next to Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the financial reinsurance.
So the cost the acquisition cost and other insurance expense line kind of spiked up to $2 million for the quarter compared to average of around $700 000 in the first half of this year.
Humphrey I'm having a hard time hearing you.
Can you speak up just a bit? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Is it better? Yes that's a little better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So for Financial Reinsurance the policy acquisition cost and other insurance expense lines kind of spiked up to $2 million for the quarter compared to around $700 000 per quarter in first half of the year.
Is there any reason for the increase and how should we think about it from a modeling perspective? I don't know the details of that Humphrey but this is a fee business at the end of the day.
If things move around in the overall income or balance sheet statement they always net out.
What really counts is the fee income which ends up basically netting everything out.
These are low-risk transactions in our opinion.
We do a lot of work to model them and make sure that's the case.
We have in our long history of doing a lot of these transactions never had one that turned out to be other than low risk.
And so we have a long and good track record there.
So if you see numbers floating around that they will offset and I'm not sure of the details.
We can follow-up with you on that but typically that business is pretty predictable.
Now we do collapse those deals under GAAP so sometimes premium numbers are big and things in a statutory statement but on our GAAP books we don't count them as risk deals.
If there are any changes in expenses or other things like that it's the fee income that needs to be followed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the U.K.
business so we have a favorable experience for the fourth quarter.
How should be think about the turnaround in terms of the claim experience? And do you think the improvements for the quarter is sustainable? In the U.K? Research Division</strong> Yes U.K.
The U.K.
business has historically run reasonably well.
It has like our other businesses had it's bad quarters and its good quarters.
This was a particularly good quarter.
But historically we are seeing claims experience emerge pretty much right on expected give or take a point or 2 at any given measurement period.
And so we're pretty pleased with the experience development on our U.K.
operations.
Caution you against taking a good quarter and projecting it just like I'd caution you against taking a bad quarter and projecting it.
But the U.K.
has had a good year this year.
Research Division</strong> Just one final question.
So in terms of the Asian premium mix it seems to be -- so it's 12% for the quarter how much of that is from the non-Australian region of the markets versus the Australian markets? Australians are our biggest producer of premium out in that part of the world and I'm not sure I have handy what the total premiums are without Australia but I would guess that a good chunk of that is certainly Australia.
Yes more than 50% is outside the Australian market.
And we'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on Humphrey's first question with regards to the policy acquisition cost.
In February to be honest it doesn't look like anything particularly netted out or any other number was particularly strange.
I was wondering Jack is it possible maybe there was an unlocking in the quarter in that area? No.
We don't have an unlocking in that line so I think if you look at the run rate in terms of -- in the U.S.
Financial Reinsurance at a little over $8 million.
That's -- and you can see we're at $24 million year-to-date if you're taking a look at that Page in the QFS.
So yes I'd say that's a fairly reasonable run rate at this point but no there's nothing unusual in there.
And I don't have at hand why the policy acquisition cost was slightly elevated this quarter but there's nothing particularly meaningful about that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we can return to Australia here.
And by the way a couple of times you said you referred to the policies written earlier in the decade.
I presume you mean earlier in the century? Yes.
That's right early in the century last decade.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last decade.
Okay.
All right.
so Australia here we've got a couple of things going on if I understand this correctly.
You've got adverse experience which you think is just one of those things in individual life and in critical illness right? Yes the -- it is a little concerning because we've had these blips 3 times now in individual life and critical illness.
So lapse rates are fairly high in Australia and what we're concerned about is any selective lapses from policies that were issued some years ago.
This is all individual stuff not the group stuff.
And so that might mean that there's some expectations that experience won't be quite as good as we would have hoped.
But we're following that.
We actually do have some ability to raise rates in Australia but that's a difficult thing if it promotes more lapsation and leads to even worse experience.
This is an industry problem.
We are doing what we can to beat the drum with the industry and begin to make sure everybody is aware of the issues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the group side you said it wasn't LTD.
So the issue is life? Yes.
The issue is more life than LTD.
LTD there's a difference between reserve development and experience but the experience on LTD has been pretty good this year.
But on these 4 accounts we're taking a holistic approach to what the total claims evolution we expect to see in the future.
So those are claims that haven't been incurred yet so we can't really...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're looking at data that would suggest these 4 accounts are problematic and then going back to Nigel's question I guess then when do these 4 accounts I guess the size of them when do these 4 accounts come up for renewal and repricing? I think they're all within a couple of years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of years.
Okay.
And then if I may just off the topic.
The Hancock book has been reinvested.
How much Jack would you think that could add to investment income going forward from what we saw in the third quarter? Let's see.
It would add probably up to 10% to the growth investment income.
If you think of it in terms of returns we think we have the portfolio repositioned in such a way that we will meet the returns that we articulated last quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more if you will and then I'll get back in the queue.
Anything on the active credit finance exemptions? This is Jack.
I'll take that.
No there isn't.
We still expect that to see some movement after the election that is in the fourth quarter.
But as we sit here today no there's really nothing to report.
And we'll go next to Jeffrey Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to beat this to death but I didn't -- I wasn't quite sure I followed part of the discussion with Steven.
So this quarter's reserve increase in Australia is related more to disability or life? I don't know the proportions Jeff but what it is is 4 contracts 3 main ones that had early claims that were adverse but not particularly credible and have -- and we have projected that out to the life of the policy.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it's some combination of life and total...
Yes it's life and total permanent disability.
But it's more life.
More of it does relate to the life portfolio.
But the proportions I don't know exactly.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then to the extent you've increased some reserve in Australia this quarter and into the fourth quarter did any of that any of those reserve increases address the issues of the individual side with the anti-selective lapsation? No they didn't.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly a technical issue.
It looks to me like in the corporate segment the interest costs went up sequentially by what I would have thought was the full amount of the interest on the new debt but that was issued mid-quarter.
So was there some reason why you ran a whole quarter of interest in there or is that not the case? No it's just the interest accrual for the -- from the point at which we issued those securities.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that means that as we go from here then interest cost should be incremented a little higher from this baseline because you have the full quarter is that correct? That is correct Jeff.
And we'll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you guys.
In the U.S I think you gave some decent granularity on sort of understanding what the shortfall was in the U.S.
traditional between mortality or life and other products.
Was there any concentration of that claim activity whether on the life side or disability or accident and health to any particular carriers? Because I know in particular on the group side the size of the business the size of the block is relatively small right? Yes it's reasonably small yes.
Research Division</strong> So is there any concentration there? The excess medical seem to come from one particular state Medicaid program.
That situation is actually taking care of itself through the regular process of pricing and falling off of some contracts though.
But again there's so few claims that tend to be large that is hard to say that that's the real problem or if there is any real problem there.
Research Division</strong> And on the disability side anything? No no.
I think the LTD as I said year-to-date is okay pretty much what we expected it to be.
That's a result of a bad quarter this quarter but better than expected cumulative first 6 months.
Research Division</strong> And just to be clear on the disability side that's a claims incidence or a frequency issue? On the disability side this quarter typically that's large amounts of LTD reserve set up.
So it could be either but I don't know specifically in this case.
We're not typically talking about a large number of policies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning back to asset intensive just a thing about getting maybe a bit more clarity can you just break out in this quarter the contribution in the quarter from sort of your legacy business versus the Hancock book that you acquired last quarter.
And just remind us what the rate of earnings you're expecting on a quarterly basis once the Hancock block reaches their targeted return.
This is Jack.
Let me start with that latter point.
I think we would project probably a $30 million to $35 million sort of run rate at this point going forward.
That includes the Hancock transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I'm interested too in new money investment yields.
It seems to me that new money investment yields have dropped pretty sharply certainly over the course of the third quarter and by the end of the third quarter in particular.
I'm just wondering how we should think about that.
I know you guys have given us some thoughts on rate pressure to earnings looking out.
I'm just wondering if there's any update to that particularly as we turn forward to 2013.
This is Jack.
We haven't remodeled it recently here You're certainly accurate in your observation that we continue to see more and more headwind.
We don't think it's dramatic in terms of kind of what we've articulated as impacts going forward.
We would -- or I should say we will very likely refine that in connection with any commentary next quarter on the 2013 expectations.
But I would say our prior estimations I included a pretty reasonable falloff in new money rates so I would suggest that we haven't changed our opinion dramatically on the effect of those -- of that investment environment on our projections.
Research Division</strong> And there's no impact on your projected on sort of your projected returns on the Hancock block given where you've been investing this or repositioning this $2 billion or so? John that's correct.
We repositioned pretty much as we expected in terms of the resulting yield.
Research Division</strong> And then just the last question I have for you is can you estimate what your capital deployment capacity is now? I mean the debt offering certainly has to add to that capacity.
I'm just wondering if there's any update on that versus last quarter when I think you were talking about a couple of hundred million dollars.
Yes well roughly $600 million would be a good estimate at this point in terms of deployable what we would view as excess capital.
Research Division</strong> And I saw the comments in the press release about looking at block transactions.
I mean no real change in that but just wondering if you can give us Greig a more current update of your thoughts and expectations around what's going on out there.
Yes there are a lot of blocks of business for sale and it's U.S Europe -- mostly U.S.
and Europe not much in Asia.
But there's a lot of interesting situations you never know how they will transact when they will transact.
They are keeping us very busy but we will have to follow up with details when something really emerges.
It's a really active time.
There's a lot of processes underway some private some public and it's probably as much activity as we've ever seen.
Research Division</strong> And any concentration just in terms of business -- the types of business Greig whether life or group or annuities or otherwise? Well if we wanted to reinsure big blocks of variable annuity we can do that in a heartbeat.
There's a lot of companies that would like to and have tested the waters with people who might be buyers.
But a lot of asset deals.
But it really runs the gamut.
We have basically a situation where a lot of companies have decided that it's time for a strategic review because they're suffering from low grade -- low growth and/or pressure from low interest rates and they want to see where the returns can be in the future and decide what businesses to sell.
So you've got some major groups that operate on a global basis that have taken a look at their whole portfolio of companies or business operations and said we're going to sell these we're going to rehabilitate these and we're going to keep these and split the world into 2 or 3 categories.
And so part of this is a strategic review by the industry at large that is occurring with more frequency than we've ever seen.
Research Division</strong> And sorry just one last follow-up Greig.
You said if you were interested in doing a variable annuity transaction does that continue to suggest that you have no interest in doing that? We're not doing any variable -- new variable annuity business right now although I would say that our small block that we have the performance has been okay.
We've had some rough quarters and some good quarters but overall we're fine happy with the performance.
But it's so volatile that we're not anxious to load up on more.
If we could find a good way to do the same thing with a lot less volatility we would consider it.
Research Division</strong> Do you still have an interest in doing long-term care deal? We haven't done any in-force blocks of long-term care.
We've been very pleased with the development of experience under our long-term care business.
It's been nice and steady and we've picked situations that we want to be in.
We have in our opinion developed a very nice operation with very good group of treaties that are producing nicely for us.
And we're quite happy with it.
The experience has been just fine ever since we started it and we continue to monitor it very closely of course because it is something that the earlier you get information the better served you are.
And we're taking advantage of that.
But the infrastructure we've built and the people that we have involved we think very highly of.
Results are very good.
It's not a big line for us at this point but because of the long-term nature of it it will continue to add premiums each year.
And we will go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Coming back to Australia I think Greig mentioned that the market was getting more competitive.
Are you referring to the group reinsurance market? I am.
That's a market that really took off with the launching of the superfunds superannuation funds which is started by life insurance and their members.
The contracts -- the purchases can be very large.
Some of these groups can be talking about hundreds of millions of premium in their group schemes.
And so the reinsurance market got very large and we were one of the early ones in there.
We did very well.
Others have seen how well we were doing and followed us.
And as more and more direct companies started fighting over this and more and more reinsurers started fighting over it it got more and more competitive.
And we've been seeing that for a number of years.
So this isn't something that's emerging this year as new information to us or a realization that the market is competitive we've been talking about it for a couple of years that the market is starting to get more and more competitive.
Let's back off in these situations where we think it's overblown try to develop good working relationships with some customers who value the services we provide and that's the pathway we've been following.
And our historical group experience has been really excellent early on is returning to sort of a what I'd say a more normal picture now.
But some of these groups are very large.
And so when claims develop either one way or the other by a few percent more than you expect or less than you expect some of the ramifications can be outsized because they can be amplified through the projection process.
And so you do have some big swings and while they -- many years have gone in our favor this particular year it's going against us.
And as it relates to group disability in Australia the commodities boom in that country seems to be ending.
Given the experience we've had in the U.S.
in economically challenging times with the heightened claims disability -- from disability rather do you think there's any chance of that kind of phenomenon repeats itself in Australia? First of all our LTD experience in the group side has been pretty good this year.
We -- it depends also where these groups are what types of groups they are.
If you're talking about the group based in Sydney or at Melbourne or one of major metropolitan areas as opposed to out west where the mining is it might be quite different picture too.
Unemployment has actually been pretty high in Australia in some -- elevated I should say from levels of past years in those cities.
And so that's already the case.
I think the concern in the industry is frankly centered more on the individual disability than on group disability and we did have a little bit of adverse experience in the third quarter that certainly got our antenna up because we try to be very conservative on individual disability and we take it because it's necessary.
It's packaged with the Life Reinsurance business life insurance business as well and so it's difficult not to participate in but we set our prices on the conservative end at least that's our intention all the time and we haven't been in that business through some of the historically bad years.
So our experience has been not good but we've been tolerant so far so we're keeping our eyes on it.
But industrywide I think that's more of a concern frankly than the group LTD at this point although you're correct that changing economic conditions very often have an effect on that experience as it unfolds.
And we'll go next to Paul Sarran with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> In the U.S.
individual can you give us a breakout of actual versus expected pricing ratios for the '98 to '04 business versus business written since '04? No I don't think I can do that.
First of all I'm not sure if we want to give out that information.
But secondly I don't think I could do it even if I wanted to off the top of my head here.
But actually the real -- we tend to lump '98 to '04 because '98 was sort of the year where preferred underwriting had achieved a critical mass.
Actually it really looks more like 2000 to the first part of 2005 that is the problematic era.
And that experience has been worse than all the other experience.
And we know it was a competitive part of the -- competitive times but not only were pricing -- were prices lower for reinsurance but in addition mortality just isn't at the same level as other eras.
And so that particular period is difficult.
As I had alluded to earlier it's not clear that this third quarter suffered from that block being worse than -- as a matter of fact there's some indication that it wasn't any worse than the rest of the business this particular quarter.
But that is what has dragged down our experience being less than we would have liked more often than not over the last couple of years.
Paul this is Jack.
Maybe this will help a little bit in terms of -- it's not a comparison to pricing but in terms of returns on that business in that competitive era the actual returns low-single digits whereas if you call that out you look at the return on all the other eras it's well into the double digits.
So maybe that helps in terms of interpreting how that business is performing.
Yes the business we're pricing today has a very nice return on it and the more we go down the road and put more of that business on the better off we are.
But Jack's right we're just sort of averaging low-single digits with mid-teens in the era since and the era prior.
Who knows the era prior might even be higher but there's not much left of that.
Research Division</strong> That actually does help.
Do you have any sense of the taste that that low return business is going to be running off? No actually we continue to work on modeling all of that but it typically does -- it does have a bigger impact given years issues and so you get about 7 8 10 years depending on the business written and so forth.
We should see the peak of that pretty soon if we haven't seen it already I hope but maybe not maybe it's a couple of years out.
Part of the issue is we're not writing as much business today as we were back in earlier years.
And so as the market starts to decline that doesn't help water down the experience of that prior year.
We'd like to see more business coming in the door but as you know session rates in the U.S.
continue to decline.
And so we're not getting as much relief as quickly as we would like but it will happen.
Research Division</strong> And now Australia have you started the process of trying to put in rate increases on the group business? Oh we did that all that time.
Yes every time something comes to market we take a fresh look at it.
These things are too big not to do that and they -- and it's most often the case that they go back to market they don't just renew with us.
We try to do the best job of retaining but it's not only up to us.
It's our clients that have to retain the risk and so we work with them very closely.
We're always reviewing the pricing always reviewing the latest information as we continually update that portfolio.
And this reserve analysis we did is something we do regularly as well.
That happens all the time but clearly we're trying to get out in front of a lot of the stuff on the group's side just to make sure that we're going forward with a clean slate.
Research Division</strong> So this year are you tending to get the pricing you're asking for or are you finding that competitive to the point where you're having to walk away for more business? And does that give any view on how that plays onto the overall top line outlook? Yes we've been increasingly walking away from business over the last couple of years.
We've -- some of the really monster-sized groups that have come up we backed off of we thought that the pricing got overheated.
We have managed to secure a treaty here and there but for the most part we're trying to just sort of stand pat where we like the business we'd like to stay in it longer term and that we think we have a lot to offer.
But it is very a difficult time right now in terms of the competitive dynamics.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess overall the global outlook on the acquisition front.
You said there's a lot of deals out there and a lot of activity.
When you look at what's out there is there much in the types of businesses you'd like to be involved in that would be big enough to allow you to use up your whole $600 million of excess capital? There are a couple of situations that we are looking at that would be of that size.
Not all are -- what businesses would we like to look at? Well we can play a role in a lot of different things.
We are not particularly looking for asset business at the moment because of the Hancock transaction we want to get that bedded down and digested a bit before we launch into another one.
But there's quite a few of those sorts of situations around.
Of course what we'd like best and what we have the deepest knowledge of is mortality just pure mortality risk.
There's some of that and there's some of that embedded in deals where we can partner.
And so there's a lot of different ways we can play this but we are currently pushing on a lot of different efforts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you commented on a couple of other products but specifically your appetite for universal life and after you've kind of settled into the Hancock treaty any appetite for further fixed annuity business? Yes I mean we like the fixed annuity business.
We've had nice stable returns and as a reinsurer we can pretty well lock that down.
We don't necessarily have to keep the business open for new activity so if you've got a transaction like Hancock where if you know the assets and you match them with the liabilities and model it very carefully you can pretty much let it run off and generate very predictable returns and that's a nice situation for us.
We don't have new clothes coming in it's just a one-shot just match up the assets to what you need and then manage it and adjust as things go along.
In terms of UL that's another product that a lot of companies would like to lessen their involvement in the UL secondary guarantees or level premium guarantees.
We have not had a real appetite to coinsure most of those businesses.
And with the interest rates where they are it's become a difficult -- a more difficult situation on top of that.
So that is one place where there's more demand than supply.
And we'll go next to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Greig we've talked a lot about the group business in Australia but I just wanted to get a sense given some of the experience you've had there is the group business still a business that you have painted appetite for on a global basis? Because it is a relatively less aligned with that you guys have less experience in than individual so I just want to get a sense for if this is still a market that you'd like to get bigger in overall as a company? Yes we have a large operation in Australia on the group side.
It's quite large it's over $300 million of premium and we have about the same size operation in Minneapolis with a lot of expertise and experience that runs deep and long.
That was the acquisition we made so it wasn't something that is historically part of our experience.
But certainly now that we have them onboard we have a lot of experience and we view the group business as very attractive business.
It's more volatile than individual life because of the short-term nature of it.
The pricing there's not a lot -- not nearly as much capital involved as in the long-term guarantees and so the pricing tends to be thinner and the volatility tends to be greater.
But the best risk management tool in the world is being able to get off treaties and reprice treaties and so we view that as a very good business.
We have a lot of capabilities within pockets of the organization and I wouldn't go so far as to say we are good group reinsurers around the world yet but we have operations that are growing and leveraging the experience and skills that we have resident in Australia and in Minneapolis.
And I think we're quite deep there especially in Minneapolis very good skill.
LLC</strong> And then just thinking about the growth rate in Asia-Pacific given that group is the bigger business for you there and you don't expect much growth how should we think about the growth rate going forward in that geography? In Asia growth rates in Asia should be very good x Australia and as I said growth is not a focus for us in Australia.
It's a big operation for us and right now our focus is elsewhere for the next period of time building infrastructure getting a better understanding and trying to take remedial actions for things we can do to affect some of this volatility we've seen.
But the rest of Asia is a growth area in insurance and while those markets at this point are small for us they're growing rapidly and they are becoming meaningful each quarter more so and we expect good growth to continue throughout the Asian area.
LLC</strong> I think in the past you've thought you could get maybe back up to high-single digits to maybe low double digits.
Given how big Australia is do you have any updated sense on an overall basis what that might look like? We're trying to -- we're putting together sort of next year's plan now so I don't really have a roll up to see what things look like next year or in the immediate future.
But I would see no reason why x Australia we wouldn't be growing easily in double digits the territory.
And even if Australia stays flat I would expect then that the overall Asia business will be in pretty good shape.
Now as we've said a couple of times in the past quarters we have had to refill pipelines in both Korea and Japan and a lot of that work is behind us.
And -- that has tended to slow the top line down a little bit.
That's just the natural evolution of some of the transactions that had a limited lifespan or other situations that were peculiar.
But Southeast Asia for us in particular is one of our strongest areas in the company.
We're doing a very good work there and we've got a good team on site at Hong Kong that services that area.
And then Korea and Japan are fairly large places for us.
Operator we may just have time for perhaps one more question.
We'll go next to Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could help us in terms of how we should be thinking about what the potential worst-case scenario for losses could be if you have -- if elevated claims activity continues in individual disability in Australia and then if you need further reserve strengthening in the group business in Australia? Sorry hard to say what the worst case is.
First of all we don't have a real big block of individual disability.
It's a small-ish block and we -- can see volatility.
We can certainly see bad results there and reserve increases there.
And part of the reserve increase in disability we set up last year and was for individual as well just because the industry has experienced elevated levels and we were anticipating some of that happening.
But we don't really think that that's going to be devastating in terms of size.
The group business is quite large and that experience is volatile and you can go through periods where disability is -- LTD is a bad risk and in other periods it's extremely good risk.
We don't have any reason to believe that there's going to be a worst-case scenario or anything like that looming in the horizon in Australia.
We believe that we're getting the situation -- getting more visibility in the situation everyday and certainly working hard at that putting a lot of resources on it from certainly the Australian team but others around the enterprise spending a lot of time making sure that we're doing everything we can and we're really expecting that the slate is clean as of this moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay so there's no way to think about quantifying the worst-case of...
No no I mean one thing we can say is we have over $300 million of group business.
We have $300 million of IBNR something like that.
You can do what you want with those numbers a 12% increase which is what we had this time in the IBNR reserve is a pretty extreme one.
We have seen reserve in decreases of that magnitude in past years but that's about -- that might be the biggest we've seen on the group side and I don't expect that you're going to see a continuation of that on a recurring basis.
This is something we don't expect to recur but it is a volatile business.
And we do have one question left in queue.
We'll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Greig I was going back through my notes and I just wanted to clarify on the U.S.
Traditional mortality block which specific years when you think about the cohort of business that you would describe as maybe more competitively priced and lower return.
Because I go back to my notes and I sort of thought that that was a late 1990s through maybe very early 2000s.
I thought you mentioned in response to a question earlier that that might have extended out to sort of the mid-2000s.
I also thought that the peak contribution to the overall results from that business was expected to have peaked really last year but now it sounds like it might be couple more years out? So I just wanted to square that.
John first of all I think that I think we would identify the problematic years as more like 2000 to the first part of 2005.
There's sort of a gray beginning to that period.
It's a little clearer on the endpoint as we in particular I think were early in the industry probably the first in the industry to start putting through increases on overaged premiums and that helped the situation.
But returns got a lot better after that where the period of sort of lax underwriting industrywide and certainly this is not something that happened everywhere.
But it happened in enough pockets that it's noticeable in our books from -- enough companies that it's noticeable in our books is centered in the early part of early part of the 2000s up to 2004 probably.
And yes I think you're right I think we have been extending a little bit our thinking on when this is going to start getting better because like I said we're not writing as much business as maybe 3 or 4 years we thought we might at this point.
Session rates are continuing to fall down and so the impact of that older business is still a little bit stronger than we had thought and we're continuing to do a lot of research and effort to get our hands around how that experience should unfold.
But our thoughts are evolving a little bit and it's extending out a little bit longer than we thought.
But as I said this experience this quarter while disappointing is not that far off of expected.
It's on a block where you're expecting claims to be $230 million $240 million a month in the U.S.
and you get an extra $12 million a quarter that's not nearly a standard deviation.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Do you have a statistic on what percentage of the total U.S.
mortality premiums that that cohort of business represents today? John this is Jack.
I'd say it's roughly 35% or so.
And at this time there are no further questions in queue.
I'd like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional and closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks again for everybody who joined us this morning.
If then any other questions come up why don't you give us a call directly and we will certainly try to do our best to respond to any of those questions.
And with that we'll end the Third Quarter Conference Call.
Thanks again.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
We are about to begin.
Good day.
And welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Fourth Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning to everyone.
And welcome to RGA’s fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
Joining me this morning is Greig Woodring our CEO.
I’ll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig’s prepared remarks we’ll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause those actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating -- phases for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and the quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We are pleased to report record operating earnings this quarter driven by strong results in our individual U.S.
mortality business and in our Canadian segment as well as a relatively low effective tax rate.
The fourth quarter performance helped complete an overall solid but somewhat uneven 2012.
RGA enjoyed good premium and operating income growth and despite the low interest rate environment we produced a 12% operating ROE for the year continuing a long trend of strong and stable returns.
After-tax operating income was $182 million this quarter up 51% over last year and operating earnings per share totaled $2.44 that’s a 49% increase over $1.64 last year.
With the exception of Australia and the U.K.
results were generally strong across the Board this quarter particularly in the U.S.
and Canada.
We continue to manage through a tough environment in Australia where we reported a modest loss for the fourth quarter.
For the full year consolidated after-tax operating income was up 6% to $516 million or $6.96 per diluted share versus $486 million or $6.55 per share in 2011.
Reported net premiums increased 7% for the quarterly and 8% for the full year.
In local currencies those increases were 6% and 9% respectively.
Ignoring our spread-based business investment income was up 6% quarter-over-quarter portfolio grew $1.7 billion but the average yield was down 35 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
For the full year the average yield decreased about 30 basis points and dipped just below 5%.
We are currently in reinvesting just below 4% so we’ll continue to feel additional downward pressure on our portfolio yield.
Book value per share increased 18% in 2012 to $93.47 excluding AOCI it rose 13% to $64.95.
Turning now to segment results our pre-tax operating income in the U.S.
Traditional business increased 69% quarter-over-quarter totaling $140 million this period primarily reflecting better than expected claims experienced in our large individual mortality book.
The quarter’s claims were up $36 million lower than expected.
The rest of this sub-segment operations were mixed with good results in individual health offsetting adverse claims experience in our Group U.S.
medical reinsurance business.
U.S.
Traditional fourth quarter premiums were up 5% over last year’s fourth quarter.
For the year pre-tax operating income for U.S.
Traditional increased 16% totaling $371 million and premiums increased 8% to $4.3 billion.
Fourth quarter results in our U.S.
Asset Intensive business were also quite strong with pre-tax operating income increasing 50% to $41 million that level of earnings is higher than expected -- that our expected quarterly run rate for this business which is about $30 million per quarter.
Fixed deferred annuities performed well in the current period.
For the year pre-tax operating income was up 56% to $109 million primarily due to the addition of the large block of fixed annuities that we took on April 1st.
Financial Reinsurance business in the U.S.
enjoyed another strong quarter and posted pre-tax operating income of $8.5 million up 23% from last year’s fourth quarter.
For the year that measure increased 24% to $33 million reflecting continued strong growth in fee income.
Turning now to Canada pre-tax operating income rose 33% this quarter to $54 million reflecting favorable claims experience and the $16 million reserve reduction associated with the segment’s creditor reinsurance business.
That adjustment was the result of refining the reserve calculation using previously unavailable individual policy level detail.
Fourth quarter reported premiums increased 11% totaling $248 million.
In Canadian dollars premiums were up 7% quarter-over-quarter.
For the full year pre-tax operating income was better than expected and rose 11% to $159 million.
Full year premiums increased 10% in U.S.
dollars and 10% and -- 11% in Canadian dollars.
In Asia-Pacific pre-tax operating income was $8.5 million for the quarter versus the pre-tax operating loss of $15 million last year.
As mentioned in yesterday’s earnings release both periods suffered from weak results in Australia where we reported a modest loss this quarter.
Result of our markets in -- the rest of our markets in Asia performed well.
Reported premiums rose 4% in the fourth quarter to $363 million in Asia including a favorable impact from currency fluctuations of $6.6 million.
For the full year results were disappointing in Australia but the rest of our Asia-Pacific operations had solid year with especially strong results coming out of Hong Kong the rest of Southeast Asia and Japan.
In Australia to give a little more color we have seen some poor experience in several parts of our business over the last couple of years.
In 2011 if you remember our disability income business both Group and individual suffered from lower than expected termination rates that experience was not unique to RGA as other market participants reported similar issues and some on the larger scale.
In 2012 our life and total permanent disability business currently referred to as lump sum business did not perform well primarily on the Group side.
In addition to evaluating and improving operations and approach to what is currently a very fairly competitive market we are working more broadly with market participants to address underwriting distribution and product design issues affecting the industry.
Additionally as we mentioned last quarter our Group business is typically written for three-year terms.
So we can re-price this risk to reflect current experience or choose not to participate.
The situation in Australia is considered manageable given the nature of the business including the size of some of our Group contracts we do expect some degree of quarterly volatility going forward.
Moving to Europe and South Africa now topline growth was strong but bottom line results were below expectations this quarter primarily due to somewhat poor morbidity experience critical illness experience in the U.K.
Premiums were up 13% to $403 million.
Pre-tax operating income decreased to $14 million from a strong $33 million last year.
For the year reported premiums were up 10% and local currency premiums rose 14%.
Full year pre-tax operating income was hampered by weak results in the U.K.
and totaled $62 million.
Substantially all of our Europe and South Africa markets outside of the U.K.
performed well in 2012.
Italy and South Africa enjoyed particularly good growth and operating results.
Corporate segment pre-tax operating results were in line with expectations with the loss of about $7 million for the fourth.
So overall we’re pleased with results in 2012 with top and bottom line results being in line with expectations going into the year.
It was a year where we experience significant swings in results both favorable and unfavorable volatilities and inherent part of our business particularly as it relates to quarterly results.
Operating ROE was 12% for the year continues to be strong and consistent indicator of RGA’s performance.
We’ve achieved approximately 12% or better operating ROE in each of the last five years but we’re facing a difficult investment environment in terms of yield opportunities as you all know.
Our excess capital position is around $600 million.
We continue to seek out attractive deployment opportunities for that capital.
Additionally our Board authorized a buyback of up to $200 million of our common shares.
We will evaluate attractiveness of repurchasing shares along with other capital deployment opportunities depending on market and business conditions.
We think its more appropriate to look at our business in terms of intermediate growth rates instead of short-term EPS targets not only are we in a long-term business but growing influence of block acquisitions the timing of which is unpredictable and the subsequent potential impact on earnings patterns leads us to believe that is more appropriate to view our performance over several year periods.
We saw the effects of both claims volatility as well as block transactions in 2012 I’ll remind you.
We have intermediate targets for operating earnings growth of 5% to 8% and operating return on equity of 11% to 12% and these targets are similar to our recent experience.
These targets assumed the continued low interest rate environment which is expected to have an adverse effect of $0.20 to $0.30 per share in 2013.
Further those operating targets assume excess capital deployment in the $200 million to $400 million per year range.
We expect annual effective tax rates of approximately 33% to 34% assuming continued extension of the active financing exception legislation and the single years FIN 48 related adjustments rolling off each year.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA and now we’re ready to take any questions you might have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our first question from Sarah DeWitt of Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could update us on your view of whether or not there is any risk for the need to strengthen reserves again in Australia in 2013 and how should we be thinking about the earnings in that business going forward? Should we expect continued modest losses or what’s the trajectory for recovery there? Sarah we expect first of all we are always refining reserve calculations as each group achieves critical credible information levels we refine our estimates all the time and that’s -- in that Group business the gap reserves are not locked down.
So it is always open for adjustments like that.
We expect that to happen in 2013.
We do expect 2013 to be a much better year than 2012 but not at the levels of 2008 or ‘09 for example.
It somewhere around to break-even here would be a good result.
It’s continued workout situation as we are dealing with industrywide problems as well as re-pricing on individual contracts.
So it’s going to take a little while but we are pretty confident we can work through it.
Okay.
Great.
And then could you update us on what you’re seeing in terms of pipeline for deals and does the new buyback signal that you’re seeing any less opportunities? Yeah.
No.
It does and we’re seeing about the same level of opportunities which is a fairly high level as we’ve been seeing all year.
They range from small to large and we can never really be sure of when or if they might land but we would view our recent buyback authorization as an opportunity to provide us some flexibility and to manage our capital in the event that price sinks below target level.
And so we are going to be using I think that during the course of 2013.
And hopefully our best use of capital is to find strong transactions we can put it in and we are actively looking at that but we can’t predict the timing of those.
So that’s why we wanted some extra flexibility here.
Okay.
Great.
And then if I could sneak one more in just in terms of the guidance of 5% to 8% earnings growth over the intermediate term what’s the right baseline to be using for 2012 is it about $7 of earnings ex-unusual item? Yeah.
Sarah this is Jack.
Maybe I could respond to that.
Yeah I think in terms of the baseline yeah this is roughly $7.
In other words pretty close to where we landed is not a bad starting point.
The guidance I’ll remind you is intermediate term guidance and which in our parlance that’s roughly three year sort of guidance that sort of thing.
And because the block deals or even stock buybacks are difficult to forecast in terms of timing upfront for a variety of reasons as you might expect.
I think I would argue that in terms of just coming up with an estimate for 2013 that range I guess we would argue is a range maybe a little aggressive but not dramatically so.
So you really have to kind of consider really high level assumptions in terms of capital deployment and that sort of thing.
That’s why we -- more and more each year and this year is a first time we really thought the idea of issuing the EPS guidance can be based on such high-level assumptions maybe its better just to go with longer term expectations in terms returns and growth rate.
Does that help? Okay.
Yeah.
Thanks for the answers.
And we’ll take our next question from Erik Bass of Citi.
Hi.
Good morning.
I guess just to follow up on a couple of Sarah’s questions.
Yeah first if you could just talk a little bit more about near-term expectations and when you are talking about growth being consistent with recent results just I mean what period are you referring to and when you are looking at historic growth I’m assuming it sounds from your answer like you are adjusting for kind of the reserve charges or releases and other large one-time items? Yeah.
This is Jack.
I guess I would say yeah but you have got to be a little careful about what you pull out of the near-term results because ours is a business that has a lot of refinements as you go.
So I would say take a look at the last couple of years when we said near-term we’re kind of thinking of that in terms of growth rates.
We don’t expect to really depart from the growth rates we’ve exhibited over the last couple years and so that’s probably to look back you may want to consider.
Got you.
And then on the tax rate I think you mentioned 33% to 34% is kind of the expectation.
Is that assuming that kind of the active financing exception the benefit is a little bit lower than it has been historically because of the lower international earnings from Australia or is there another reason that the tax rate is a little higher than it had been historically? Yeah.
Certainly that the overall expectation is that the active financing exception will be extended and I guess that remains in part 2013 that remains to be seen.
It didn’t have a dramatic effect on us in 2012 primarily because of the pattern of earnings in our international operations.
The fact that we did not reflect an AFB call it contribution to the tax provision in 2012 a very little affect just because of as I said the pattern of earnings and the difficult situation we experienced in Australian.
And in fact if you look at our effective tax rate in 2012 you see it’s off 3 point or so off more expected longer-term rate and about 2.5% of the beneficial effective tax rate really relates to the fact that we had difficult experience in Australia.
Some of those treaties are written in such a way that if you do have worse experience than you expect you do pick up some of broad -- I should offset some of that in your effective tax rate.
Now we don’t necessarily expect that to continue so we would expect -- expected tax rate -- the effective tax rate to move off and we articulated that is roughly 33% to 34% and that’s pretty much where we are expecting.
Also relative to FIN 48 while I’m talking about the tax rate we do expect one year to roll off so some modest benefit from the effects of FIN 48 in 2013.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just one last well I know on the third quarter call you spent decent amount of time talking about kind of the legacy U.S.
mortality blocks kind of the early 2000 vintage.
Can you talk about kind of how that block performed this quarter and kind of in the outperformance in the Traditional U.S.
kind of where you saw the better experience? Erik I actually don’t even know how that particular block performed because I have not seen a breakdown by year on the U.S.
I presume it performed reasonably well this quarter.
It’s always difficult to look at a quarter at a time and draw any conclusions whatsoever.
So the conclusions we draw are longer term in nature.
And that that business is still a problematic business the returns on the U.S.
mortality block are very very nice if you exclude those issue years from say ‘99 to ‘04 policy -- policy issue years maybe 2000 to 2005 the competitive period of ‘98 ‘97 to ‘03 or so.
Treaties lasted little longer in effect.
So that business is the most difficult return business and without that the returns are very nice in the U.S.
on mortality market.
So we would hope to get them showing through a little bit more in the future.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Schuman of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about top-line growth.
I think for 2012 you did consolidated premium growth of 8%.
I think the fourth quarter was similar pretty strong number.
Just so we can understand retrospectively I mean how much of that roughly was kind of core growth and how much of that was due more to sort of one-off transactions.
And then can you give us a little bit of perspective going forward kind of what core growth rates look like at least in a couple of key markets versus how much you would have to layer in other means to kind of get to 5% to 8% earnings growth? Jeff I think the 8% was pretty much core growth for the most part of the -- that was in the fourth quarter in Europe a couple of single premium blocks that totaled about a $100 million that will not necessarily repeat.
But outside of that most of the premium growth we’ve seen for the year has been core growth I would say.
We’ve done some block transactions in particular a fairly large mortality block at the beginning of the year that has throughout the course of the year added something.
But we are always looking at those and we’re looking at some of those right now ranging from small to large.
And so I would -- I would say that that growth is pretty solid.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
So for example in the U.S.
you started a pretty high growth rate and the bottom line is you start from a pretty good point in the core business and then they’re just going to look for ways to supplement that.
Is that still a fair read? I think that’s right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
And similarly in Canada I think growth in Canada was particularly surprisingly strong in a pretty mature market.
Were you still able to grow there? Yeah.
The growth in Canada is -- maybe stronger than the U.S.
because it’s still in a different place in terms of the amount of business being seated.
And also the fact that the liabilities are so long in Canada and the persistency is so high means that we don’t have a lot of lapsation of the in-force block compared to other market.
So that tends to make for higher growth in Canada.
And we expect total double-digit growth in Canada going forward for a little while any way.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
That’s what I need.
Thank you.
Jeff this is Jack.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Sure.
Maybe I could just comment just briefly on the U.S.
growth rate and lot of it gets down to your definitions in terms of core versus in other words if you consider core not to involve any block opportunities.
And if you looked at 2012 there is certainly one block opportunity in there that probably enhance the growth rate by may be 2% or so for the year.
But as Greg was saying we constantly look at those sort of opportunities.
So I guess it gets definitional in terms of what do you call that course with one block opportunity in 2012.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll take our next question from Sean Dargan of Macquarie.
Thank you and good morning.
Just when we look at you reported book value per share your AOCI component is very high relative to the most companies we look at.
I guess a why is that and b would you ever consider selling securities at a gain and deploying that capital somewhere else? Sean this is Jack.
The part of the reason that it’s relatively high as we have a fairly long portfolio that supports our reserves in Canada.
And so as you might imagine fairly long portfolio in this environment does attract quite a bit of unrealized appreciation and value.
So that’s certainly part of it.
I think if you’re comparing us to a lot of primary life companies I think that would be one differentiating feature to our business.
Relative to your second question I mean we look at all opportunities so and have looked at the extent to which we may want to realize some of the unrealized appreciation in the investment portfolio.
But it’s not -- and there’s a whole lot of friction involved in that depending upon where the underlying securities reside in terms of our operating companies and the frictional cost just liquidating some of that portfolio and the fact that you would pay tax on it or incur tax on it.
So there is a lot of moving parts on that and it’s not as easy as you might think in terms of just liberating.
But certainly we do look at that sort of a transaction and consider continuing.
Thank you.
And one more just in regards to the change in philosophy about giving EPS guidance I think you guys have always said that on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Your business is volatile but on an annual basis you’re able to give guidance range which more often than not you hit is the change just the wildcard of block acquisitions.
What’s changed exactly? This is Jack.
The block acquisitions to me is the overriding and so it just seems to be more and more part of our operating structure.
So around the edges that is incrementally it does have an effect on returns in any particular year in the pattern of operating earnings.
So yeah -- volatility always been the case.
That hasn’t changed dramatically but the fact that we do seem to be looking at more and more block transactions over the last several years and in fact put a rather large one on the books in 2012.
That’s influenced our thinking on EPS guidance.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had a couple of questions.
The first one is on Australia you seem fairly optimistic but results have actually continued to disappoint the last several quarters.
So I’m just trying to get a better idea on when you expect the benefit of repricing to help your results.
Maybe if you could give us some more specific idea on when you started to reprice the business how much of the poorly performing contracts have been repriced already and when should the entire book be done? And then secondly just on your share buyback program maybe if you could talk about potential in terms of timing of when you initiate the program and just the timing of the potential completion? Yeah.
Let me take the first one Jimmy.
The biggest problems in 2012 were from the group business.
The group business is more than 50% a little bit more than 50% of our business in Australia.
They typically are three-year contracts and there’s been a lot of bad experience in the industry that has just in the last little while started to show and deteriorate.
And so we are repricing.
We have not been very aggressive in pricing that business.
So you’ve seen a leveling off of our premiums and even maybe a contraction in some of our premiums that’s to be expected going forward as well.
And so this is occurring but these are three-year contracts and we will be repricing everything over the three years.
When you started have you been in to the process for about a year I’m assuming given that you had the charge in the fourth quarter of last year? Yeah.
Yeah.
We’ve been -- the charge last year was more on disability but yeah we have been repricing continually and probably it’s good to think of this year as sort of first year where we’re seeing major repricing in the marketplace.
Okay.
Yeah.
Jimmy I’m with you.
On the share buyback we really look at that as an opportunity and a lot will depend upon where the shares trade as you might imagine.
And our own internal analysis of likelihood of deploying capital in other ways into the business so it’s not like we have an ironclad plan on when to complete for instance that authorization.
It may take a while.
If the stock trades off obviously we would get it done more quickly.
But we just see that as one of the flexibilities we have in managing capital going forward.
And then any reason why you didn’t pursue buybacks.
Obviously you didn’t have an authorization but why you didn’t pursue buybacks after -- when the stock declined sharply after third quarter earnings.
Well primarily as you mentioned we didn’t have the authorization and so we didn’t have the opportunity to pursue buybacks at that point.
We were putting together a longer-term capital outlook Jimmy.
Okay.
So we were a taking a good longer term look at not only how much excess capital we have but how that’s going to be growing over the next several years.
But then as you think about going forward should we assume that you would buyback stock if everything is normal and the results are fine or are you going to be more opportunistic and only do it when the stock actually pulls back because of the weak quarter or something else? That’s a hard one to answer Jimmy.
I can’t say that our plan right now has it defined in one of those two categories.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Ryan Krueger of Dowling &amp; Partners.
Hey good morning guys.
I don’t want to beat the issue to death but I did want to just come back to the guidance and clarify something I think you said Jack.
Did I hear you correctly that you said the 5% to 8% intermediate-term EPS guidance might be a bit aggressive near-term implying that the near-term growth rate might be slightly less than that.
Is that what you said? Well not exactly.
I did say that it could be considered somewhat aggressive but I didn’t mean to leave the impression that that means near-term we expect to be out of that range.
Maybe a better way to put it is would be toward is lower end of that range depending upon how quickly we deploy capital.
Yeah.
If you look over three years and you took the top of that range 8% that would be pretty aggressive to think of 8% for three years.
Okay.
There’s more just within the range than maybe you stated lower due to the timing of capital deployment near term.
Is that a fair way to think about it? Yeah.
I think.
That’s a better way to look at it.
Okay.
Great.
And then I just wanted to come back to the U.S.
mortality.
It bounced around a lot this year and I think you characterized the first three quarters as below your expectations and then this quarter much better.
When you think about the full-year 2012 experience is that relatively consistent with what you would actually expect over time for the U.S.
mortality results or does it differ? We think Ryan that we will look back on 2012 as a generally good mortality year.
And that part of that is saying that the mortality on that block from the troubled years is deteriorated enough and settled in at a lower level than our previous expectations.
And for business of the same the same age and duration in surrounding years so that when we look back we’ll probably think 2012 was a pretty good year.
Okay.
So I see.
It actually ended up a bit better than your full-year expectations? That modestly.
I think that’s why we’ll say modestly.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
We’ll take our next question from Humphrey Lee of UBS.
Hi.
Good morning.
A question about the U.K.
results I think U.K.
operation has reported unfavorable claims in three of the last four quarters.
I think first quarter is critical illness and the second quarter was mortality and then this quarter again it’s critical illness.
So first can you quantify the drag in the U.K.
for this quarter and then also how should we think about the operating results in U.K.
going forward? Are you seeing any secular trend? Humphrey this is Jack.
In terms of quantifying the effect for the quarter it’s probably in the $7 million range.
And in terms of what to expect going forward the critical illness business had been running a very very nicely for us up until this year.
And we’ve had two bad quarters.
We’re always alert for whether there’s a trend involved.
The expense in the fourth quarter tended to be reflected very late in the year so it’s hard to get a reading at this point on it.
We have heard a lot of anecdotal evidence about for critical illness experience in the marketplace in the fourth quarter outside of RGA.
So we don’t know how to read it yet.
Having two bad quarters in a certain line of business it is not anything to be concerned about.
It was first in the fourth quarter for critical illness this year as you said that that was difficult and we will be paying a lot of attention to it.
But we don’t at this point hear or see any reason to send up any alarm bells.
Yeah.
The reason I wanted to ask about this is because some of the primary writers have been complaining about pricing in the U.K.
market has been quite aggressive in recent years.
So I was just wondering if there’s any kind of quality issue a bit more recently in vintage blocks? Well you’re right about that.
The market is very aggressive and competitive market and has been.
We’ve mentioned that a few times ourselves that how competitive the UK market has been really for the last four or five years.
And this is business we will as I said be watching very carefully going forward and doing a lot of study on.
But at this stage like I said we don’t really know that there’s anything to be overly concerned about yet.
Okay.
Got it.
And then looking at Canada with the credit reinsurance reserve adjustment aside the non-creditor business seems to be doing quite well for the fourth quarter as well.
I think the loss ratio was 87.5 compared to the mid-90s in the past two quarters.
Anything there going on and then also kind of how should we think about it going forward? That creditor reserve adjustment you can think of it as catching up from the inception of time on the creditor business with more refined data.
That business -- we expect that creditor business to be actually lower margins than our individual mortality business got more predictable less volatile since there are lot of small amounts and reasonably manageable.
So we do expect that business to be stable although a little lower margin than our other business.
So this was a bit of a one-time catch-up to where we should have been over time.
So I think maybe I wasn’t clear.
I meant the non-creditor business the loss ratio seems to have improved this quarter compared to the past quarters.
So I think for this quarter it’s 87.5 and for the past two quarters it was in the mid-to-high 90% range.
I was just wondering for the kind of more traditional business if there’s something kind of changing going on? Humphrey yeah you’re right the non-creditor business has performed very well throughout the year some quarters little bit better than others.
But that performance of just the individual mortality business in Canada has performed better than our expectation for several years running now.
Okay.
And then if I can sneak one more in you mentioned that for 2013 your expense -- FIN 48 come through.
Like I’ve seen in the past usually comes through in the third quarter.
In terms of timing wise for 2013 should we expect that to happen as well or kind of it will be different? You’re right in that.
In the past when it was a more regular role of year-to-year it was different in the third quarter because that’s when we would finalize the tax return and so on.
I think probably any impact would more likely be in the fourth quarter of 2013.
That’s a guess because we could become aware in some other quarter that are comparable that we can release the year but the best guess right now would be the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
And we’ll take our next question from [Bill Procter].
Yeah.
Good morning.
First of all getting back to your guidance I’m not sure if the numbers jive.
When you say you will have a return on equity of 11% to 12% and your payout ratio is about 15% so that would suggest earnings growth earnings per share growth of about 10%.
And even if you invest $200 million to $400 million of excess capital a year it would appear you are generating more than that even after paying your dividends.
So should we assume that you could make 10% with the difference between the $528 million coming from either acquisitions or share buybacks?  Yeah.
And this is Jack.
That latter point that’s kind of the difficult part to predict in terms of not only how much capital will we deployed but how quickly will it work its way into the return on equity.
And when we deploy it into a transaction how quickly it reaches it’s sort of cruising speed in terms of ROE.
So those are all guesses.
Okay.
And the second point.
I appreciate you don’t want to create a capital gain from selling some bonds in your portfolio.
But on a go-forward basis would it not make sense given bonds have outperformed equities over the last like 20 years that you would start allocating the money to equities as opposed to bonds? Yeah.
That’s certainly deliberation that we consider.
The capital requirements are different so a lot depends on where you would have those securities.
It’s very difficult to allocate a lot of capital to a lot of investment to equities because of the capital required to do so.
It’s also the case that taking capital gains on some of our biggest portfolios such as the Canadian portfolio means we’d have to put up more reserves and more equity in Canada because going forward interest rate would be lower.
So there is all sorts of implications of taking capital gain prematurely.
Okay.
And my last point would be -- what would be your guess as to the split on your 33% to 34% tax rate what would your guess be as the split between current taxes and deferred taxes? Predominantly deferred taxes.
Okay.
And would that continue for some time.
Yeah.
I think it will likely.
It’d be likely to continue for some time.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Good quarter.
We’ll take our next question from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James and Associates.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Apologies in advance.
I got a few.
First of can a public-service statement would it be possible -- I know you guys don’t want to do the yearly guidance and I can’t blame you for that.
But would it be possible at least to get maybe a breakdown of the quarter or the year of what premiums look like in various countries knowing that in the past it’s been helpful in trying to predict the effects of foreign currency? So that would just be a request.
Greg maybe you can talk about pricing in the U.S.
I assumed was $19 billion I think that was a new low as long as I’ve been covering the company.
What is going on with pricing given that penetration is obviously continuing to decline? Yeah.
There is -- I think we think that pricing is still okay.
We think that the returns we’re getting on current new business are meeting our expectations.
We are of the fact that the size of the market continues to shrink a bit in the U.S.
And we expect that to ultimately put some pressure on some players but we don’t really see that having a huge effect on pricing.
It’s little more competitive than it was five years ago but I wouldn’t say too far.
We are reasonably happy with the pricing levels just not with the production levels.
Okay.
If we can turned it -- taxes I’m a little bit confused Jack.
You talked about the active income finance exemption that didn’t get passed until the first quarter as part of the fiscal cliff deal.
Did you apply that retroactively to 2012? No.
Steven we didn’t because of the timing.
When it was extended we determined that really couldn’t reflect that in 2012.
So it will be reflected in 2013 but because of the pattern of our international earnings it won’t -- the 2012 AFP won’t have that dramatic of an affect.
We will reflect them in the first quarter but it’s fairly nominal.
Okay.
So you are saying is the what just passed is going to be in the first quarter.
It’s going to have a big effect.
That’s right.
Okay.
I got it.
My comment on further extension would affect the rest of the year and it’s little harder to call how much affect that will have.
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
I understand.
Thank you.
And then just revisiting capital and capital management.
The $600 million Jack that you cited because I don’t remember does that include a buffer? Yeah.
We are a little bit we are little bit over $600 million kind of at year end and that looks the best way to describe it.
That doesn’t include a buffer.
In other words that’s an amount above and beyond what we do to be the typical requirement.
If we want a buffer for instance if we wanted a $300 million buffer that would imply -- we’ve got $300 million that we could deploy.
But the way we look at it just to be clear that buffer is kind of nice to have.
At over time we do shoot to have some sort of a buffer.
But if we had the opportunity to deploy all $600 million at what we view to be an attractive return we don’t feel compelled to maintain a buffer rate at any point in time.
That’s more of the long-term issue.
Okay.
Great.
And then just thinking about capital generation I know you want to get into earnings but how should we think of maybe free capital generated relative to GAAP? Yeah.
What’s the best way to answer? Our best estimate would be that we would with our current portfolio business generate probably over $200 million and maybe $250 million-ish of capital in a typical year and it won’t be exactly.
That will be more or less but that’s what we would expect and we would expect to have access to that capital.
In other words it’s not locked to a meaningful degree and operating subsidiaries.
We can move it and we can use it if we have deployment opportunities.
Okay.
And then and one more for me.
On the creditor business in Canada if my understanding is correct you’re basically saying here that that upon further review the loss ratios in the past were probably recorded at too high a level.
I noticed if you had about $60 million the loss ratio and the creditor business in Canada would be around 34% which would be kind of below low end of the historical range.
Is 34% a good number to go forward? I’m not quite sure of your calculation.
Keep in mind that that $16 million adjustment is cumulative over and not seven or eight years level a fairly long-term decline.
Okay.
All right.
That’s good info.
Thanks guys.
Good quarter.
We’ll take our next question from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
All right.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
I just have a question about the 5% to 8% over the intermediate term.
Should we be thinking about that as interchangeable between operating earnings and EPS in that? I think you are baking in $200 million to $400 million of annual capital deployment.
Perhaps that comes in the form of a deal.
Perhaps that comes in the form of buybacks or some combination of the two.
So should we be thinking about the 5% to 8% is interchangeable? John this is Jack.
It’s very close to interchangeable.
But yeah I think the differential would be fairly insignificant.
So I guess the answer is yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
And then on -- I you may have missed it.
I think it was mentioned in prepared remarks could you just remind us what your estimate is for pressure from sustained low longer-term rates? Yeah.
Best guess is probably about $0.25 a share.
In ‘13 over ‘12? Yeah.
And then likely diminishing -- in other words we don’t expect that to just continue at that level but that’s a reasonable estimate for 2013.
Okay.
And my last question is a bit more touchy because I want to ask a little bit about compensation.
In the past as I recall management’s short-term incentive compensation was very highly correlated to achieving EPS within your annual guidance range.
And so now without specific annual EPS guidance I’m just wondering if that shorter-term incentive program has changed as it relates to sort of what are the key drivers.
The answer is no John.
We will have an internal target that we are aiming with an operating earnings EPS target in there and we’ll also have revenue in ROE as components of our compensation as well.
Okay.
I understand the idea of moving away from stated annual EPS objectives.
But if it’s indeed still a key driver of how management gets paid I guess I’m unclear as to why it wouldn’t be disclosed publicly.
I think it’s for the reasons that we mentioned earlier that we tend to have a fairly broad range of possible results.
Even though we’ve managed to hit near the center of our guidance I think in the last two three years at least.
It’s really the case that that we have a fairly broad range of possible outcomes and… Okay.
We live within that but we think it’s not anything to fixate on the annual guidance.
We’d rather look at longer-term growth rates and trend rates.
I listen.
I appreciate that fully especially with your business.
If I could sneak one last one just asset intensive Jack.
I mean this quarter was significantly above what -- at least I can say what I was expecting.
Can you help us understand what sort of drove that? Yeah.
And maybe let me take a step back.
First in terms of going forward that asset intensive business we would expect a run rate just based on the generic business as well what’s in the portfolio.
Now to be in the $30 million to $35 million per quarter range maybe little bit towards the lower end of that estimate.
In terms of the fourth quarter of 2012 we had several treaties that just performed better than we would’ve expected.
Sometimes you will have things fall your way a little bit with respect to investment earnings.
And really what happened in the fourth quarter I will remind you also that the large transaction that we executed as of the beginning of the second quarter.
For the second and third quarter we’re doing a lot of investment repositioning.
We really completed that process in October.
So we really had a pretty good run rate on that business for all of the fourth quarter and that contributed fairly significantly.
And is it fair to characterize the Hancock fixed annuity coinsurance deal is now especially given they are fully invested is that at your sort of targeted returns? Yeah.
It is.
Okay.
We completely deployed in the manner that we expected and it is meeting those return hurdles.
All right.
Terrific.
Thanks guys.
We’ll take our next question from Paul Sarran of Evercore Partners.
Thanks good morning.
It seems like you’ve had a fair amount of luck getting block deals done in Europe.
But I was wondering if you could comment on what the outlook over there is what you’re seeing and kind of how much more to this opportunity there is? It’s hard to tell.
The opportunities that looks pretty rich.
We’ve done a few transactions that were similar over the last couple years.
We did a couple this year and one last year.
And so we are trying to repeat that process wherever we can but it’s not clear how much additional opportunity scope there will be.
There is essentially a couple I suppose.
But we do view that the European market does offer a lot of in-force block opportunities because of some of the Solvency II and some of the other things happening in Europe and the realignment of insurance companies there as they react to these new forces hitting themselves.
There seems to be a lot of opportunities.
It’s always hard to predict exactly what’s going to happen.
If we have an opportunity to repeat a success we will try to do that like we have done successfully in the last couple years.
But it’s hard to say what is really going to happen in 2013.
Okay.
And then a quick question on Fin Re.
It looks like operating expenses were a little bit high in a $4.5 million versus a run rate last several quarters of $1 million to $2 million.
Was there anything unusual in the quarter there? And then looking forward you have had pretty strong growth rate.
I guess same question how much more is there to this opportunity? On the expense level we did have some structuring costs associated with some deals that we put in the books.
So that will bounce around a little bit but that’s what you saw in the fourth quarter in terms of growth rates breakdown.
A lot of the growth has come in international markets.
We think that in Asia in particular there’s a lot more financial reinsurance opportunities in the near-term because the growth rates in that market are so high that it’s put a capital pressure on companies and it looks like a very good market for us.
So we’re also trying to develop more opportunities in other markets that we haven’t really penetrated yet.
So we are pretty optimistic about reasonable growth in the financial reinsurance businesses.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we’ll take our next question from Scott Horsburgh of Seger-Elvekrog.
Good morning and thank you for taking the call.
Just another way of trying to spin the guidance -- the intermediate-term guidance.
So maintaining the 11% to 12% return on equity target and growing 5% to 8% a year implies the excess capital generation you guided to something like $3 to $6 per share per year on average.
And so what’s the priority and the timing of reinvesting the excess capital or then ultimately deciding to return it to shareholders? Scott I’d say the priority is -- typically has been to reinvest in the business if we see returns are attractive.
So the problem is determining timing on that because you just can’t tell because there are extended negotiations and that sort of thing on most of these block transactions.
So I guess I would state that we are looking at deployment in terms of in the business as well as through opportunistic buybacks somewhat equally.
In other words both are attractive and we think we can accommodate both going forward.
I don’t know if that necessarily answers your question but that’s the way we look at it.
Yeah.
In a way it does.
I guess I’m just wondering at what point does the capital build up to where you kind of feel forced to do something either on the dividend or on the buyback? Yeah.
That’s a tricky one because as you can imagine at any point in time a lot depends on where we are vis-à-vis discussions on block deals and how we handicap actually executing and closing those deals or maybe a better way to express it if we go deeper into the year and just don’t feel we’ve got opportunities that we think we will be able to execute it then we will look much more strongly at certainly our dividend as well as buybacks.
Okay.
That was helpful.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in the queue.
At this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Lay for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
No remarks other than thanks to all the investors and analysts who took the time to participate this morning and with that we’ll close our call.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today’s conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America First Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay thank you.
Good morning to everyone and welcome to RGA's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Both Greig and I are here this morning.
I'll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig's prepared remarks we'll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on a pre-tax and after-tax basis for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables on our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and a reconciliation of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at www.rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack.
And thanks everyone for joining us.
Overall we're pleased to report a good start to 2013 with a relatively stable first quarter.
Results benefited relatively -- from relatively little volatility in claims flow and from relatively strong performance in our Asset Intensive business.
Operating income totaled $123 million up $1.65 from -- per diluted share.
Consolidated premiums were up more than 7% in original currencies quarter-over-quarter.
We produced an annualized operating ROE of 10% this period despite the low interest rate environment and some foreign currency headwinds.
Our average portfolio yield was 4.83%.
That's the same as the fourth quarter of 2012 but down about 22 basis points from last year's first quarter.
A relatively stronger U.S.
dollar lowered after-tax operating income almost $2 million or $0.02 per share.
We saw mixed although relatively stable claims experienced across our various markets.
As a reminder we typically see relatively higher claims and lower premiums in the first quarter due to the seasonal effects of higher debt rates in the winter months for some of our largest mortality portfolios.
We continue to benefit from the growing geographic diversity of our businesses.
We returned about $48 million of excess capital to shareholders during the quarter in the form of stock buybacks and another $52 million so far in April.
Additionally as announced yesterday our board increased the previously approved $200 million stock repurchase program by another $100 million.
So we still have capacity of $200 million remaining.
We will continue to consider share repurchases along with other opportunities.
There continues to be a number of block or M&amp;A transactions throughout the industry which could present attractive opportunities to deploy excess capital.
Book value per share increased to $94.34 including AOCI and the $67.37 without it.
In addition to continued strong contributions from ongoing operations the current period benefited from a pretax $47-million gain associated with the repurchase of discounted collateral finance facility securities that we had issued in 2006.
That gain is not included in operating earnings.
Turning now to our segment results.
Pretax operating income in our U.S.
Traditional business increased 10% quarter-over-quarter totaling $70 million this period.
Individual mortality claims were generally in line with expectations and slightly adverse Group Reinsurance results were offset with a good quarter in our individual health business.
U.S.
Traditional premiums increased about 2% over the first quarter of 2012.
According to a Society of Actuaries sponsored reinsurance market study we retained our #1 position in the U.S.
We're recurring new business during 2012 with 19.6% market share.
We also remained one of the top reinsurers in terms of imports with the market share of 19.5%.
We're pleased with another strong quarter from our U.S.
Asset Intensive business which reported pretax operating income of $46 million and benefited from a strong equity market as well as good performance from the large block of fix deferred annuities acquired last year.
We expected doing roughly $30 million to $35 million per quarter in this sub-segment in 2013 though this quarter was very strong.
Our U.S.
Financial Reinsurance operation reported another good quarter and added $8 million of pretax operating income.
Turning to Canada.
Pretax operating income in Canada totaled $33 million this quarter a decent result but far below the very strong comparable prior-year period when we earned $47 million and benefited from a treaty recapture.
Claims were slightly adverse in this period and foreign currency fluctuation lowered pretax operating income by about $500 000.
Premiums grew nicely to $243 million a 12% increase over last year's first quarter and net of a $1.6 million foreign currency headwind.
Our Canadian operation also retained our #1 position for recurring new business in the Canadian marketplace in 2012.
Their market share was 33.1%.
In Asia Pacific we had a good quarter with pretax operating income of $19 million compared with the strong $27 million result last year.
The current period benefited primarily from favorable results in Japan and several other Asian markets.
Results in Australia were moderately positive this period and we continue to restructure the business profile there.
Unfavorable foreign currency fluctuation reduced pretax operating income by $1.8 million largely due to a weaker Japanese yen.
Net premiums totaled $364 million an increase of 12% in reported U.S.
dollars and 14% in original currency.
Moving on to Europe and South Africa.
Pretax operating income of $16 million was more than triple the result from the first quarter of 2012 still a little below expected run rate due to adverse critical illness claims experienced in the U.K.
and to a lesser extent some adverse claims in South Africa.
That adverse claims experienced was partially offset by favorable results in several European markets.
Net premiums rose 11% to $324 million in Europe and South Africa.
In original currencies premiums were up 14% over the first quarter of 2012.
Corporate segment reported pretax operating loss of $8 million this period pretty much in line with our expectations.
The $47 million pretax gain from the repurchase of collateral finance facility securities I mentioned earlier is included in this segment's pretax income of $36 million but was excluded from pretax operating income.
So overall we're pleased with the first quarter results including good consolidated premium growth and strong results in our U.S.
Asset Intensive business.
Operating ROE was 10% annualized.
Recall that first quarter ROEs are generally lower than the other quarters due to claims seasonality.
We're pleased to announce the recent stock buybacks and the increased authorization under our current repurchase program.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to deploy or return excess capital which now stands between $500 million and $600 million.
We're still seeing a good deal of block acquisition opportunities in the marketplace and we expect those opportunities to persist for some time.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions.
First margins in the U.S.
doesn't seem a bit weak.
So if you could just talk about what drove that.
And then on the deal environment how is the competition for properties? And has it been affected by private equity hedge funds being more active? And then just on -- lastly on buybacks if you could talk about the rationale for the timing of buybacks because last quarter you weren't really clear on whether you'd do it in the first half of the year or the second half? And does this imply the fact that you bought back as much as you did in the first quarter? Does that imply that you don't see any deals in the short term? Or does it not? Okay.
Jimmy first of all margins in the U.S.
I thought were okay.
The mortality in the U.S.
was slightly better than expected very slightly.
So that was a good result considering the first quarter we had some administrative clean-up that was negative in that quarter.
But generally speaking U.S.
margins we thought held up quite well.
And we're happy with that.
In terms of competition in the market we do see a very substantial competition for assets by the private equity guys such as Apollo and Guggenheim and so forth.
And so they are very strong competitors in that space.
And we compete with them.
But realistically we are not winning too many of those battles.
Do you want to add to that? Yes.
Jimmy this is Jack.
On the buybacks maybe I could address that.
Yes we certainly take a look at different opportunities for capital deployment.
And buybacks is obviously one of those.
But it's always kind of a dance to some -- in some respect because we are looking at various opportunities to deploy into the business the block transactions.
But those can be very difficult to predict.
So we're not particularly comfortable at just simply being on the sidelines vis-à-vis buybacks and waiting for the block transactions to occur.
So we're kind of going down the path where we're trying to take advantage of each.
Certainly we had taken advantages of the trading value of the stock relative to the buybacks.
And it remains to be seen the extent to which we can take advantage and execute on the block transactions.
But certainly there is a lot of activity underway in that respect.
Research Division</strong> And then I thought the group reinsurance business in the U.S.
had slight weakness? Yes it did.
In a different line than the -- it had some weakness in the fourth quarter and the third quarter last year too as we essentially repriced or got out of some situations where the experience was a little bit bad.
It returned to normal on the excess health business.
But we had some light claims in the first quarter and that happens.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly on -- would you be open to pursuing a large transaction? And would you consider issuing equity if there was something that was attractive like $1 billion plus type property? Yes.
We're always open to a good transaction and a good deal.
And we would be open to that.
Although we don't expect that to happen we have excess capital.
And for the transactions we're looking at we think we're in good shape.
Yes Jimmy maybe I could comment on that as well.
Certainly we wouldn't want to lead with issuing any equity.
And we do have some leverage ability and there's a reasonably active market for hybrid securities.
So certainly our goal would be to finance any deal or even a rather sizable deal internally.
And to the extent we issue securities equity would be last on the list at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So on the U.K.
resells critical illness was again unfavorable.
I think since 2012 we've seen 3 back quarters '05.
And on the last earnings call you mentioned that there were a lot of anecdotal evidence about full critical illness experienced in the market place but too soon to send out any alarm bells.
So how should we think about the situation now? Should we begin to be concerned? And any updates on what you're seeing in the market? Humphrey yes it's true.
The last couple of quarters in particular we've had a little bit of softness in there.
We're not talking about big variances.
We're talking about relatively minor deviations from expected.
But still the size of the block is big enough that it makes a few cents difference.
So we are looking at it very carefully.
We have been over time adjusting our pricing upward over the last couple of years on critical illness.
And then after having some very good experience say 4 or 5 years ago on that line we're seeing a little bit of deterioration in that line overall.
But it's hard to separate the noise from the signal at this stage.
We're still looking at it.
We think it's mostly fluctuation and we have those seen adrift of increased pricing on our side in that business.
Research Division</strong> And then I think last quarter you mentioned the drag on earnings was $7 million from the critical illness.
What is the size of the drag for this quarter? And also you mentioned that the block has a relatively large size.
Can you remind us how big is the critical illness book in the U.K.? I don't know that I know the answer to that off the top of my head but it's in the -- my guess is it's in the $200 million to $400 million range so...
In terms of premium.
In terms of premium.
For the quarter I think we were somewhere around after tax GBP 2 million off.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then looking to Asia Pacific the 14% premium increase on a constant-currency basis was really strong.
How much of it is a result of pricing actions in Australia versus the pipeline coming through? And also in terms of the geographic split how should we think about that 14% increase? Yes the Asian premium increase does include Australia.
And Australia is a place where we're not really expecting much if any premium increase.
And in fact it would not surprise us at all if we see some noticeable premium decrease over the next little while as we work our way through repricing business in Australia.
So that is a blend of 0 to negative.
In Australia they're actually -- probably it was up a little bit in Australia in this particular quarter but not much; and very strong growth in the rest of Asia where we have a very strong position.
Remember our Asian business for the -- last year's has been characterized by rapid organic growth.
But in Japan and Korea we've had to replace large transactions in the pipeline of premium.
So if you sort of wipe out or look through that situation of replacing the pipeline the rest of the growth has been quite strong in Asia because it's a growing market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's basically just the pipeline from past couple of years are finally going through -- getting the benefit of that? Yes.
I think we've probably pretty much come to the end of the filling of the pipeline stage in both Korea and Japan.
And we're ready to see some growth beyond the current levels.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually I wanted to ask about the Japanese pipeline.
I do want to follow up though on Jimmy Bhullar's question with regards to the private equity and how you framed that Greig.
You said that they were interested in assets.
And I'm assuming that it means the fixed annuity business where they're mostly concentrated on.
I'm wondering if you're seeing them potentially being more active in true insurance as opposed to asset accumulation? No.
We see them focusing pretty much on Asset Intensive businesses.
Now they may take blocks of universal life business or other things like that in order to gather assets under management because I think they view that they have a real expertise in the asset management sector.
And so very often there is a partnership discussions we can have with them about how to approach blocks of business.
But for the most part they're not really interested in biometric risk at least as I understand it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more if I may and this may be more along the lines of the Investor Day but given we just finished the first quarter I'm kind of interested in wondering about territory expansion if maybe there are new geographies new countries that you might be looking at this year.
Really not much.
We are pretty solidly entrenched in the major markets.
I think we will be over time and a little bit this year looking at more growth in South America.
And there are other markets such as Turkey that are interesting to us.
But those are not big efforts.
We would love to get our license in China.
We think that's a -- that will be a big step when we can get that done.
And we've been in the queue for some time and working hard to try to do everything to convince the Chinese that we're worthy of a license.
And so that's a process we have no control over but we'd like to see that happen soon.
And we'll take our next question from Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I guess could you give a little bit more color on what you're seeing in Australia and -- I know you mentioned results were a little bit better than you'd expected this quarter but maybe provide an update on how you expect profitability to trend near term in that block.
Yes.
Australia has seasonality just like the U.S.
does but it's reversed of course because of the Southern Hemisphere.
At least that's what appears in our numbers.
If you remember last year's first quarter in Australia was extremely good.
So if you look at the Asia Pacific comparisons this year versus last year you're seeing some really strong Australian results in the first quarter that of course got completely wiped out in the course of the year.
So we don't read too much into a good first quarter in Australia.
It's a turnaround story.
We're expecting results to improve substantially from last year but not necessarily to be good in Australia in 2013.
So we're not expecting a substantial contribution from Australia as they would have had say 4 or 5 years ago but rather turning an inflection from the poor experience of the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So that thinking sort of a breakeven year do you think the block is profitable in 2013? We hope to do a little bit better than breakeven this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one on your outlook I guess for U.S.
Traditional margins particularly on the mortality business are you still expecting mortality claims to be somewhat elevated and I guess more came to the last couple of years given the drag that you've talked about from kind of the 2000 to 2005 vintage blocks? Yes the block from say '99 to '04 which we described in different ways.
Sometimes I describe it based on the pricing environment sometimes based on policy issue date say that block right around the turn of the century turn of the decade.
It's still problematic.
That's the block that has our lowest return.
And that is a block that we thought we would have outgrown a little faster but this new business writing has come down so dramatically in the U.S.
that we're not able to get past it quite as quickly as we would have thought.
That's part of our experience in a block.
It performed pretty well on the last couple of quarters now.
And we'll take our next question from Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I have a follow-up on the question on if you will on the larger deals how that can be financed.
I guess one how much -- could you quantify how much debt capacity you think you have at this point? Yes.
Ryan this is Jack.
We probably have in the neighborhood of $300 million of senior debt capacity right now.
And I commented earlier we've got some -- obviously some capacity for some hybrid as long as that market hangs in there.
So I think you could stack another $300 million or so of hybrid on top of that.
LLC</strong> Okay okay quite a bit actually.
All right.
And then a couple of more on the Asset Intensive segment good quarter there it seems to be boosted a little bit from the equity market.
What's your thinking going forward for a good run rate in that segment? Well yes it was boosted by the equity market.
But the biggest piece of that business is actually the fixed annuities and the equity annuity which both had good experience this quarter.
The fixed annuities is a bigger block than we had last year because of that large transaction last year.
So you're seeing the full run rate.
It was a good performance for the quarter.
But I think that more came about because of the spreads on the fixed side than on variable annuity side which is a relatively smaller block.
But of course it did perform extremely well in the quarter given the equity performance.
You should think of that more as fixed annuities than equity annuities -- I'm sorry than variable annuities as contributing.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I think in the past -- in recent quarters you had been expecting maybe around $35 million per quarter number there.
Would you expect it being higher at this point? Yes.
This is jack.
I think we're optimistic that we would be towards the top end of that $30 million to $35 million range and potentially above it just given a look at the margins as we see them now not dramatically above but we're optimistic that we'll have a -- continue to have a pretty good run rate there.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to talk a little bit about the U.S.
Traditional business.
Obviously industry sessions and session rates have been coming down for quite a few years.
You've experienced deceleration but on kind of a lag basis.
So you continue to grow premiums and in force for a number of years.
But now you've gotten to a point where the in force has been flat for a number of quarters premium growth this quarter which -- it's 1 quarter.
It may not be representative.
But it was down to 2%.
I guess to sort of extrapolate the trends I mean it looks like maybe we're headed for a point where traditional doesn't grow or perhaps could even contract.
I'm wondering -- I mean does that shade your thinking about acquisitions and consolidation? I mean do you feel a need maybe to do something to kind of preserve operating leverage in that space? And then the other thing I'm wondering about is based on past history I think back to when Swiss reacquired a lot of market share what are the constraints on really an effective market share in that business? I think they found that when they bought a lot of market share it was tough to hold because clients do want a certain amount of credit diversification and that was I think a little problematic for them.
Correct.
I think your analysis is pretty good Jeff.
We don't expect the U.S.
business to really shrink but we don't expect it to grow very much at all.
This particular quarter we had no blocks of business acquired on the mortality side.
We had a fairly large block of business that was acquired and filtering in in the first quarter of last year.
So it's a bit of a tough comparison.
But if there is no blocks we really are looking at something in the sort of 1% to 2% range for the mortality business itself.
Now that's supplemented by the group business and the individual health business the long-term care business a bit.
But it's not a growth area for us.
We're not particularly looking to buy blocks of business just to keep growing in that particular market space unless we can find them attractively priced.
And we're eager to find anything that looks like a well-priced mortality block.
In terms of market share in the current environment it's very difficult to sustain much more than the low 20% range.
We had a market share of 26% which we felt was unusually high due to some special circumstances that we could spot.
And we knew that that was going to come down a bit.
But our market share today at just a little bit under 20% is a good place to be.
It's hard to get much above that and hold onto it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I was just trying to reconcile the last couple of comments.
So it sounded like you are open to looking at blocks but that that would increase your market share but then that would be hard to hold.
So I'm not quite sure how to net those observations.
Yes.
When I think of market share I'm thinking of market share the organic -- what I call the flow business the new business in the marketplace.
And that market share is hard to sustain above about -- maybe 22% 23%.
Once you get to that point that's about it.
That's about as much as you really want to do.
And so anybody who acquires another company and fix up some flow will see degradation above that point clearly which is also the best to happen.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So one could still counter by a situation like that but they would need to rationalize it based on sort of earning on the sort of appropriate market share I guess.
Yes correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you kind of addressed this but of course U.S.
Traditional has a number of things in it.
It does have more of the block one-off things and it does have group another products.
But if we were just looking strictly at individual flow sort of recurring business is that growing or shrinking for you at this point? I think it's almost static.
It's grown -- maybe growing just slightly.
And we'll go next to Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Your overall premium growth for this quarter versus historical levels and I think a lot of that was from the U.S.
Traditional business so how do you think about the potential to get back to high-single-digit to low-double-digit top line growth over time? Is that a reasonable expectation over the long term? To get above double digit in today's world would require doing some block transactions.
And that's certainly possible Sarah.
But the expectation would be so [indiscernible] which I believe was the sort of a 9% year.
And currency has some effects on that one where the other currency is a headwind at the moment.
The growth -- or in the same currency in both Europe and Asia for us is fairly strong in the first quarter.
We expect that to be strong all year long.
And Canada is running 12% in the first quarter.
That's likely to be in that ballpark for 2013.
But overall for us to get above 10% it would require us to do some block transactions which may happen.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just following up on your comments about the potential for block acquisitions.
What -- could you elaborate on what types of block acquisitions you're seeing out there in the marketplace whether that's by line of business or by geography? Well there's a fairly robust pipeline.
It's not increasing but it's not decreasing either.
It's been sort of constant over the last year or so maybe 18 months in terms of the number of opportunities the split between more Europe and North America not really very much in Asia.
And they're all over the board in terms of what sort of properties.
There's a lot of companies in this low grade -- growth rate environment that are focusing their operations more.
Their new ventures are restricted in terms of what they want to do to a fewer number of things that they're focusing on.
And a lot of them are looking to free up capital that's tied up into blocks of business that they would like to set free as part of the streamlining or focusing effort.
And you see pressure from the new regulatory and accounting regimes and -- such as Solvency II or Basel III having an influence on all these.
So there's a lot of opportunities.
They're all over the board though like I say in terms of what they are.
It's what the various different companies want to sell at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I guess following up in the vein of companies looking to focus on I guess core businesses.
There are a number of one-off variable annuity lines out there.
And I know that's a small part of your Asset Intensive business now.
But as you get a better beat on policyholder behavior does there come a point where you might get comfortable taking on variable annuity liabilities? Well Sean we've got a little bit of variable annuities in that businesses running off.
We would contemplate a modest amount at periods of time just to sort of keep our book flat not necessarily grow it.
But the products are changing so much that we'd be looking at situations where the variable annuities were completely redesigned and had a lot less volatility in them before we would really be entertaining buying a block of existing business.
There's almost no chance we're going to be going after a big block of existing VA business with all the inherent volatility around that.
Some of the newer designs and some of the remediated business could be quite more stable and less volatile on a GAAP basis.
And so that would have some interest to us.
Okay.
And as your stock price moves closer to book value I'm just wondering is there a book value at AOCI? Is there a hard and fast price that which you won't repurchase your shares? Sean this is Jack.
Yes there certainly is.
And as you can imagine the higher it gets done the less attractive it is.
But we don't like to throw out a price and kind of draw a line in the sand at which we wouldn't want to buy back the shares.
But certainly an under book value they're attractive now -- it's trading price under book value.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Paul Sarran with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of questions about the collateral finance security repurchase you did.
I guess I'd just ask them all at once.
I guess first what kind of brought about the opportunity to do this deal.
It seems like a pretty large discount.
You have I think around $490 million of additional securities on the balance sheet.
Are they similar? Could we see more of these? And then finally do you consider this sort of a capital deployment action in the context of your kind of $200 million to $400 million a year of capital deployment goal? Or are you planning to replace this with new funding? Is it more of a refinancing deal? Paul this is Jack.
Let me take that.
First of all to your latter question no we don't look at this as a capital deployment.
We will look at this as simply an opportunity to take advantage of a market that has fairly poor liquidity.
These securities don't trade much.
It's not that many holders.
And at points in time for a variety of reasons they want to get out which if you think about it really affords us an opportunity because we understand the underlying characteristics of the security so to speak for those securities.
That is the underlying mortality.
And we're very comfortable.
We're the ones obviously that packaged those securities.
And we think they create a great deal of value.
So we've gone on a couple of times over the last several years and acquired some of those securities.
We had to be careful that we don't want to follow the securities law as we go about buybacks.
So you've seen them spaced.
But it's very opportunistic.
We see opportunities occasionally where there are sellers that want to get out at what we -- and we offer what we think is an attractive price.
We don't have to go back and refinance that because technically we keep those securities outstanding.
They're held by a subsidiary investment portfolio one of our own subsidiaries.
And so they still serve the purpose of providing collateral financing so to speak.
But from a consolidated standpoint we treat them as defeased because we've acquired the securities.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes I think it does.
And so one other question I'm just wondering if you could comment on avian flu.
I know you don't have any material exposure in China right now but any thoughts on the current strain that's going around and any thoughts just on managing pandemic risk in general? Well we are watching the situation.
I suppose that's about all we can do at this point.
There is not really very many cases.
It has not affected us at all as far as I know.
And we would be watching the situation.
There is always a risk of pandemic.
Flu is the most likely pandemic that we could envision.
The situation is one where we've looked over time at buying mortality bonds or finding some protection.
We find them quite uneconomic to buy and not really as good coverage as we would like anyway.
And so we've never really done anything in that realm.
We've modeled our pandemic exposure.
We have we think capital to withstand most scenarios very effectively.
And we'll go next to Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just have a follow-up on the acquisitions side.
You mentioned that there are a lot of opportunities in the market for M&amp;A.
I guess my question is what prevented you from getting it done.
Is it because of the price being too high and the return for those are not attractive? Or is it just the business that is out there is not something that you are particularly interested at that level? So -- and then also kind of what is the deferred rates for RGA when looking at M&amp;A again? Yes hopefully these deals do get done.
They -- we have done several of them over the last couple of years.
Some of them have been very small and so you didn't notice them.
We would consider the large annuity acquisition we made last year as one of these transactions.
There was a large in force mortality block that we did in the early part of the year last year that we would consider in this category.
We've done several blocks of Italian creditor business over the last couple of years.
And there's been several of them in other words that have crossed the finish line for us.
They tend to be smaller on average and not particularly noteworthy in terms of a big event in a particular quarter but they add up.
So we're expecting that that's going to continue.
And we're at any given time looking at a number of these opportunities.
I think we did serious work on 20-something last year and would have closed a couple of them.
The year before it was a similar number.
Maybe I looked at 20-something and closed 2 or 3 of them.
So the hit rate is about 1 in 10.
Sometimes we lose because others buy it.
Sometimes we lose because we're just at the end and not interested in the particular risk profile.
But whatever the cost that's sort of our hit rate over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> So I guess like how would you characterize the pricing in the market at this point? Are you considering them or they[ph] still have value somewhere? Or is it kind of frothy at this point? Well I think that the pricing is generally okay.
The situations are competitive though.
And so you're always competing against other people in these sorts of scenarios.
And it's not something you can count on at any given deal the timing of the size.
And so it makes it a little bit difficult to predict.
But the fact that the activity continues to show itself gives us a lot of confidence that it's going to be a part of our story over the next several years.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time I'm showing no further questions at this -- I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Lay and Mr.
Woodring for any additional closing remarks.
Okay thanks to everyone who joined us this morning.
So if any other questions come up feel free to give us a call.
And with that we'll end the first quarter earnings release conference call.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America's Second Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay thank you.
Good morning and welcome to RGA's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Greig Woodring our CEO; as well as Alain Néemeh who heads our Canada and Australia operations.
I'll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig's prepared remarks we'll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during the call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on a pretax and after-tax basis for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our website on the Investor Relations portion of the website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on a short notice this morning.
I'm going to discuss the situation in Australia in depth then briefly cover our other operations.
To begin we're very disappointed with the charge we took in Australia where the group business in particular has been problematic for several years now.
However with our actions this quarter we believe we have aggressively addressed the situation such that our future earnings profile should be more stable.
We have excess capital of approximately $200 million and expect to generate additional capital for future operating performance.
Capital management will continue to be an area of focus.
We have increased our dividend by 25% and also added $100 million additional capacity to our share buyback authorization.
Turning now to Australia.
As a reminder with our Australian group business we reinsure lump sum products which include both mortality and total permanent disability as well as a disability income protection which pays a monthly benefit.
A significant part of that group market driven by superannuation funds which are mandatory retirement funds providing their members access to life and disability coverages.
As a result of a recently completed claim study we have substantially increased our liability position unlike previous increases which generally recognize elevated claims levels.
We -- and to the date of the analysis this quarter increase also provides for continued expected deterioration throughout the guaranteed premium periods.
In this most recent claims study we examined the data more comprehensibly that we have in the past reflected additional trending we've seen and continued to see in the Australian industry.
And with this quarter's increase we have effectively doubled our group liabilities which now exceed $535 million.
We believe in other words that we have aggressively dealt with the issue of reserve in liability adequacy.
Roughly $184 million after-tax charge this quarter relates primarily to the total and permanent disability or TPD product which is typically offered as a rider to the mortality product.
We did not reinsure this product to any material extent anywhere else in the world.
The charge also covers to a lesser extent adverse experience on disability income benefits.
In our opinion the group TPD market in Australia became extremely competitive about 5 years ago about the same time that insured benefits became richer in terms and conditions weaker in the marketplace.
Looking back we realized we missed the fundamental change in the market and the impact it should have had on pricing.
We also believe that the claims adjudication process needs to be improved and we are working with clients in that regard.
At this time we're suspending quoting activities for group TPD benefits in Australia and exercising extreme caution in other aspects of the group market until the situation stabilizes.
We believe our experience is symptomatic of a larger trend in the market and we will continue to work towards influencing positive industry change.
As for the rest of our operations we're pleased to report strong asset-intensive results as well as continued execution of our capital management strategy.
Outside of Australia our overall claims experience although mixed by market was mostly in line with what we expected with slightly elevated claims in Canada and the U.K.
After-tax operating losses totaled $72 million or $0.99 per diluted share including the charge in Australia.
In operations other than Australia we earned approximately $1.70 per share.
That's generally in line with our expectations.
Consolidated premiums are up more than 5% in original currencies quarter-over-quarter.
Our average portfolio yield was 4.77% down 29 basis points from last year's second quarter and 6 basis points from the first quarter.
Including the currency benefit associated with the losses in Australia a relatively stronger U.S.
dollar lowered after-tax operating income by $2.3 million or $0.03 per share.
Our effective tax rate of 33.7% also benefited from the losses in Australia.
We remained very active on the capital management front during the quarter buying back an additional $182 million of outstanding shares.
That brings our year-to-date total share repurchases to $230 million.
As previously mentioned we announced increases to our quarterly shareholder dividends in our current stock purchase -- repurchase authorization.
Our excess capital position of approximately $200 million reflects the buybacks in our second quarter results.
We will continue to opportunistically repurchase shares while we evaluate other attractive uses of our excess capital.
Turning now to a high level of discussion of second quarter segment results.
In our U.S.
Traditional business we reported pretax operating income of $86 million.
Individual mortality claims were in line with expectation.
Policy [ph] acquisition funds were slightly elevated this quarter.
Premiums exceeded $1.1 billion and grew 4% quarter-over-quarter a good growth rate for this business.
U.S.
Asset Intensive subsegment continues to perform above its quarterly expected run rate of $30 million to $35 million in pretax operating income in this case producing $40 million this quarter.
The strong performance was primarily driven by equity-indexed and fixed annuities.
Our U.S.
financial reinsurance operation also continues to grow nicely and reported $12 million of pretax operating earnings this quarter.
In Canada claims were slightly adverse and pretax operating income totaled $32 million for the quarter.
Foreign currency fluctuations lowered pretax operating income by about $400 000.
Premiums grew 8% totaling $240 million net of the $3.1 million foreign currency headwind.
Premium growth was 10% without the currency headwind.
In Asia-Pacific excluding Australia we had a good quarter with all other markets outperforming expectations.
Hong Kong and Southeast Asia had a particularly good quarter.
Including Australia Asia-wide net premiums totaled $340 million increasing 5% in original currencies.
Moving on to Europe and South Africa.
Results continue to be driven by U.K.
operations which experienced slightly higher-than-expected mortality claims this quarter due to normal volatility.
Segment pretax operating income totaled $15 million including a drag of $1 million from currency compared to the prior year and net premiums grew to $319 million.
That's an increase of 3% quarter-over-quarter in U.S.
dollars and 6% in original currency.
Our Corporate segment reported a pretax operating loss of $7.5 million this period consistent with expectations and in line with the last several quarters.
So in conclusion we're disappointed with the charge to earnings this quarter.
We believe our actions have addressed the situation and will improve our earnings' profile and stability going forward.
We will continue to take actions to improve the environment in Australia.
We are managing through this situation.
We believe this to be an isolated situation with a unique environment in Australia involving a product we reinsure nowhere else in the world to any material extent.
We do not foresee any similar circumstances incurring in any other markets in other words in which we operate across the globe.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA and we'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I hope you can discuss the implications of the charge for your plans to repurchase stock over the remainder of the year.
You said in your comments that you remain opportunistic but given excess capital is down to $300 million.
Isn't rebuilding your buffer a key priority? And if that's true would it be fair to say that any buybacks over the next couple of quarters would any be normal in nature? Nigel this is Jack.
I'll take that question.
Let me start with the buffer.
We typically have commented in the past that we normally target a cushion in terms of excess capital of roughly $300 million.
But we've also cautioned or tried to suggest in the past that that's kind of a long-term goal that we don't feel it's a priority to maintain $300 million.
And if there's opportunities to attractively deploy capital whether it be through repurchase of stock at attractive prices or deployment into the businesses for attractive returns we would do that even if we don't yet have a $300 million cushion.
So maybe that's another way of saying that in terms of the repurchase we're happy to have in total $400 million total authorization.
As you know we've already bought back $230 million to-date.
So we've been recently aggressive but the capital or the redundant capital that is the excess capital level is down compared to where it was 3 and 6 months ago.
So we may be a little more selective in terms of the repurchase than we have been in the past.
But it remains to be seen we'll just have to weigh the opportunities as they present themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just a follow-up on Australia and the underlying assumptions you've built in to be charge.
You mentioned that you built in additional deterioration into the reserve that you established can we get some detail as to exactly how much additional deterioration or any other details that you could provide will give the comfort that the reserve's established are now conservative.
Well we'll let Allan Néemeh answer that one.
Yes Nigel I think you can think of the additional deteriorations representing a material -- a majority of the reserves that we booked.
A natural question could be why is it that we've got such a big charge since Investor Day and essentially we completed a very comprehensive claim study and the results I will say were materially worse than we expected.
It was a result we took as Greig alluded to a much more aggressive approach this time around you can think of it in terms of these 2 buckets.
One is reflecting the observed deterioration but then additionally we've changed our expectation to allow for additional potential future deterioration on both the existing blocks.
And we've also applied that to the premiums not yet received to the end of the premium guarantee periods.
And so that latter part is the majority of the reserve increase.
Our next question will come from Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So I guess first one just a follow-up on the last point in terms of what changed from Investor Day when I think your comment was you expected Australia to be modestly profitable in 2013.
So was it something new that you saw in the market? Or was this a claims study that you had planned to undertake but just hadn't completed at the time of Investor Day? It's more of the latter.
You can almost say that we're constantly doing claims studies when we get an update but we were completing a major claims study.
And it isn't so much that we saw a surge of actual claims as much as we saw older claims and an increase in incidents and when we triangle it out we get a clear picture of continued deterioration.
I think it's also fair to add so not only is there the increased incidence but there is the delay in reporting live[ph] which is increasing.
We've also factored in additional industry information on the back of the results of our claims study.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could just touch a little bit more on the individual business in Australia.
I think that had been weak this quarter and you've also seen some volatile results in recent quarters.
Just talk about the confidence you have in reserves for that business.
And just to clarify I think you said that there was no adjustment for individual reserves this quarter is that correct? Yes that is correct.
So results this quarter were weak on the back of a couple of large claims.
In terms of the reserving adequacy we are -- we do believe the reserve is adequate.
I did however mentioned that Investor Day that we are going through a repricing exercise of about 2/3 of that block of business and that's ongoing right now.
But certainly in terms of reserve adequacy we're comfortable with the reserves that we have.
Next we move to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Australia and accounting is this a premium deficiency reserve? This is Jack.
Yes part of the total reserve does relate to what we would characterize as a premium deficiency reserve.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Jack the accounting here I'm straining to remember I mean basically you've already assumed the loss on this business.
Does that -- I think if I got my accounting correct does that imply that Australia should return to profitability in the near future just because of the accounting? Well I think a better way to look at it is that we wouldn't expect any additional reserve additions that we've fully contemplated that sort of thing.
But yes when you think of a premium deficiency reserve or similar sorts of reserves what that really means is we've extended the development of our loss ratios out into all the future premiums that we expect to receive.
And essentially through booking additional reserves have recognized any potential loss for future -- that presumably accrue the future premiums.
We've recognized that loss now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the -- any loss comes out of the reserve so basically the in forces [ph] is going to be breakeven? Yes.
That would be right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right and then if you can here -- I'm just trying to understand I know from Investor Day from listening to Investor Day that superannuation funds are extraordinarily important and they have some serious market power over there and obviously they have more power than the sellers of the product.
Is that what's going on here with the TPD product or is there something special about the TPD product because you've been stressing that you don't sell TPD in other places.
You weren't stressing that there aren't superannuation funds in other places so if you can help on that? So this is Alain.
I think it's a bit of both.
The industry funds certainly are large buyers of the business and as long as companies compete that can drive prices down.
I think I think one of the issues that with the TPD product is if you go back in time we saw a good profitability on this business through to the end of 2008.
And right around that time as Greig mentioned there was some benefit improvement coverage increases and frankly pricing decreases as we go back and review our files and look at the industry activity.
And it was all at the same time as the economic fallout started.
I think we saw over time a more informed insured group and longer and longer reporting delays.
And that's really the one I think that's driving a large part of the uncertainty because when you go back in time and look at the data that we used to price and then look at that data today it's changed because of those lengthening reporting delays.
It's fair to say we didn't catch that in the pricing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Alain what is the difference between TPD and DI? TPD is a lump sum payment on total permanent disability as opposed to the recurring payments that you would see with disability income.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I may one more.
Just moving to the U.S.
you noted in the press release Jack or Greig that the benefit ratio in the U.S.
was pretty much similar to what it was a year ago but in my notes I have the year-ago results you saying that they were adverse unexpectedly adverse higher than the mortality results were worse than you would expect.
Can you talk to this quarter? Yes.
Mortality was pretty much in line with the expectations this quarter Steve.
The benefit ratio is adverse.
It's due to either the mix of business changing the acquisition costs or and/or there's some administration noise coming through because of reporting.
We move next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you could help us understand maybe a little bit more granularity of the $274 million.
I think it was pretax reserve increase in Australia.
I think you mentioned that maybe a smaller portion of that reflects the experience that you've already viewed in terms of the deterioration of the business.
And maybe a much larger portion of the $274 million reflects an expectation that there's further deterioration from here.
Could you give us a little bit more granularity on that? How much of the $274 million is just taking us -- taking reserves to the level based on the experience that you've actually seen versus how much is on further deterioration expected? So as [indiscernible] you can think of the existing deterioration as being about $50 million of that.
And then the rest of it as being a further deterioration as well as pushing that out through the premiums to be received right through to the end of the premium guarantee period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And can you just remind us what the -- from June 30 let's say through the end of premium guarantee period how much longer do we have to go? We've got about $55 million.
I mean -- and I'm talking now in terms of the big industry funds which really are the majority of the problem.
We've got about $55 million in premiums rolling off in November of this year about $70 million July 1 2014 and then about $90 million July 1 2015.
We'll move now to Jeff Schuman with KBW Investments.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could get a little bit better understanding of the nature of the higher disability claims.
I mean clearly it has something to do with pricing and terms in underwriting.
But I'm wondering to what extent there is actually a secular as you here as well.
I think in the past you've talked more about termination rates.
I think now you're talking about higher incidence rates.
So is there actually a secular change in Australia? I think it's fair to say yes.
I mean that we believe there has been what I would term a material dislocation in the underlying market.
I just want to be clear when we talk about termination rates we're probably -- we're talking about the disability income monthly-type benefits.
The TPD sort of one and done.
So what we have -- we have seen increased incidence on TPD but a larger part of the problem is the lengthening delays where on average now we're seeing about 2-year delays in reporting of claims but for one fund in particular that's lengthened out to both 3.5 close to 4 years now.
So in those terms I think that's probably the single biggest issues we would have missed when we go back in time and look at our pricing and it's not something that we appropriately contemplated.
Frankly not something I think we would have expected.
But that's part of the reason why we're suspending the quoting activity at this point because until we better understand what the underlying drivers are and how to fix that issue this is just not a business that we want to continue participating in.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay then the follow-on just to be clear what's happening on the renewals you made it very clear that you're not quoting on new business you've given us kind of a renewal schedule.
So what is going to happen at these upcoming renewals are you going to see big price increases or you're just going to let the business go? Or what is actually the strategy for those renewals? Well there's a requirement in the Australian marketplace to provide renewal quotes so we will be providing renewal quotes.
However if I go back to my earlier point until we either influence a change in the underlying products or better understand the lengthening of the reporting delays I think you can walk away thinking that we'll be unsuccessful in those renewals.
[Operator Instructions] We go next to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> On Australia it looked like outside of the reserve addition there may have also been about $25 million loss in the remaining businesses.
Was that all individual or was a percent of that group as well? No.
It's actually all individual and I think in my numbers actually the number was slightly lower it was a $17 million loss.
It was all individual.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about going forward seems like you're -- if your projections come true in the group business you're expecting essentially breakeven earnings there.
But I guess how should we think about the individual business? It seemed like -- has anything changed since Investor Day on the individual side or are you still expecting that to also be in the ballpark of breakeven near-term? No I would think of it in terms of breakeven as we continue to go through our repricing exercise which we would expect we'd have a better handle on where that lands us by the end of the year.
The individual business in Australia has exhibited a pretty volatile up-and-down pattern over different quarters.
Sometimes it's been very good.
Sometimes it's been very high but this particular quarter is not good.
We take our next question from Humphrey Lee at UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just another follow-up on the whole reserve deal issue.
So how much of a buffer are you creating with this reserve.
So in other words under what circumstances will another reserve strengthening be necessary? I think maybe Jack can address the question.
But before that I just want to say I don't think we can ever say we've got it all.
But we have addressed it very aggressively.
As I mentioned we have recognized its existing deterioration.
We've also assumed potential future deterioration and again right through the end of the guaranteed premium periods.
Yes.
Humphrey this is Jack.
I would certainly agree with that.
We don't look at it as setting up a reserve and then putting a buffer on top of that.
But when we look at the underlying assumptions that is the assumptions that underlie the reserve calculation.
We think we have been very aggressive in setting those assumptions.
So we end up with the reserve addition that we think accommodates the situation.
We don't expect to be going back to the situation.
Research Division</strong> And so maybe like think about in that way in terms of future deterioration are you kind of assuming at a worse pace than the current deterioration or kind of like kind of -- try something that is more in line with what you're seeing the comfort out.
[ph] No you can think of that further deterioration as we take a look at all what we have experienced to-date that is what we've observed historically.
And then we in our assumptions presume that it could get worse and markedly worse.
So we've been -- in our view fairly aggressively looking at further deterioration potential deterioration.
We'll move now to Sean Dargan at Macquarie.
I'm following up on Australia.
The environmental factors you referred to just to be clear you're talking about the environment of the insurance market and pricing.
And I asked the question because my colleagues in Australia said that there have been upticks in mental health claims.
So I just want to make sure there's nothing going on in the actual environment that's causing mental illness? No I didn't mean to imply it.
And I think when I talked about the environment I talked about products that have perhaps gotten ahead of themselves pricing that isn't commensurate with the risk on those products.
You're correct that there has been an uptick in mental health claimants but no I did not mean to imply that there was anything in the Australian environment that was causing mental health.
Got it.
And I just one follow-up.
Regarding the individual products in Australia I think we've seen some local primary carriers including AMP provision for future losses and they've cited incorrect assumptions around lapsation.
I just want to get it from your mouths that we're not going to see another shoe drop on the individual side? We do not believe -- let me say we believe that we're adequately reserved and we have taken some lumps on individual in the past.
But we don't believe there's anything coming.
We'll move now to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a couple other question in thinking through this.
I think Greig in the opening remarks you talked about kind of missing a fundamental change in the market.
But then you subsequently suggested that you aren't seeing anything in other parts of the world.
And I guess when you think about RGA it's obviously a very broad company a lot of different regions some different products mainly mortality-based a lot of smaller areas that aren't fully developed yet.
And I guess the question I have is how do you get comfortable that a situation like this isn't present in another part of the world that you just haven't figured out yet and does this experience force you to change kind of how you manage the business how you manage the company how you think about risk management? Good question Mark.
First of all this situation is unique for a couple of reasons.
First of all the prominence of these superannuation funds and -- who are big purchasers of large transactions does not exhibit itself in other markets that I can think of in anywhere close to the same sort of prominence.
And this particular product is one that is sold commonly in Australia.
It's bundled with life insurance.
And nowhere else do you see this product sold in the same quantities or achieving the same level of prominence nor do we have big concentrations of it.
So that's the basis of the comments we make.
We obviously do look at everything we do and you're right that we are into a lot of different markets all have their unique characteristics they're unique distribution systems they're unique products.
And we have to have a very vigilant and active product development and risk management capability.
In this particular case in retrospect as we sit here today as several years ago this business in Australia was in my opinion unpriceable.
Because the data we had was irrelevant.
It was changing under our feet in ways that we couldn't understand or anticipate.
And the data we have had that was used to price was not only not helpful it was actually misleading us.
Because the world was changing in Australia.
The patterns of claims were changing.
People are coming much more aware of these benefits.
There's been a cottage industry in trying to steer people to the superfunds which give them the best benefit package for their particular needs.
There's a lot of anti-select -- there's a lot of things going on in the market that changed.
And so while we've been in the market for more than a dozen years that it went very well for a while it's changed and it's become unpriceable in our opinion.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just back to the individual business in Australia.
Apologies if you have hit this pretty well.
But I guess what I'm still a little bit confused about is did the experience that you showed in the quarter change your view on the individual business in Australia going forward from what you previously thought? Or is it kind of more volatility that you typically see and it's -- your repricing it to improve it but there's nothing that you saw that really changed.
I guess I'm trying to understand what has changed if anything to your outlook on the individual block? Nothing fundamental has changed Mark.
It was not a good quarter.
There were some large claims and you remember the second quarter last year was like that.
Overall the year for individual lump sum business was pretty much as expected but it was up-and-down a lot last year.
This is the analogue to the fourth quarter in North America.
But there's a little bit potentially of seasonality in claims.
At least we've seen it in the last couple of years.
It was not a good quarter and every bit of new information does color our future outlook to some extent but we had not had a fundamental shift in our understanding or our viewpoint on where this business is going longer-term.
We recognize this is not a business without its challenges and we're working through a lot of those but it's not like the group business.
[Operator Instructions] We take a follow-up from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I don't know why I got cut-off so quickly.
The -- I guess the follow-up questions that I had were I think upfront Greig you mentioned that x the charge you viewed EPS in the quarter at around $1.70.
I don't get that number.
I get to something more in the $1.54 $1.55 range.
I was just hoping you could reconcile the 2.
Is really the big difference there the individual DI losses in Australia is on top of the reserve charge? Yes John let me take that.
That's exactly right.
The $1.70 is x Australia operations not just x the charge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
X all of Australia.
And I would just clear John it's not the disability in Australia.
It's more lump sum more individual death [ph] claims points than.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then my other question for you is just I wanted to go back to the roll off of this business the premiums coming off in July of '14 final level final amount of premium coming off in July of '15 it sounded like -- can you just help us understand do your liabilities remain ongoing from there or once the business -- once the premiums stop coming in you are no longer on the hook for claims from that point forward? We're certainly not on the hook for claims looking forward to the extent that the event date happens after the date we come off but we have to sizable IBNR to deal with claims that haven't been reported.
So any claims where the event date happens before would be ours even if they're reported afterwards.
Research Division</strong> So then maybe just the last question for you in terms of follow-up there is when you think about the total reserves for this business I think Greig mentioned earlier on in the call something in the neighborhood of $530 million what portion of that is IBNR? It would be about 2/3.
And for our next follow-up question we go again to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> More on Australia.
The individual adverse mortality Greig can you put a number on that? I guess just mortality and morbidity.
Yes mostly mortality but I think it's about $17 million for the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Alain if you can explain to us something you said kind of caught me by surprise there's normally 2-year lag in the reporting of this TPD claims and you've got one fund that's having a 4-year lag.
Why in the world does it take somebody 2 years or 4 years or whatever it is for a TPD claim? That's definitely something that we've been struggling with over the last little while.
You can maybe think about in terms sometimes of someone sort of going on disability and they go on short-term disability first and then they -- so that would be your monthly income benefit and they roll on to on a long-term disability benefit and then only after a certain period of time do they become totally and permanently disabled enough to claim the lump sum but frankly even with that in mind the delays are extremely long and Greig alluded to sort of the cottage industry of lawyers looking for some of these older claims.
It is one of the things I would say that we're aggressively working on to try and figure out how to rein that back in.
But at this point it does puzzle the mind a little bit to think why someone would wait that long to claim.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- the lawyers thing is interesting.
And then just -- I mean Sean kind of alluded to it maybe with the mental claims there are reports at least I'm not going to claim that I know that is going on in Australia but there are reports at least that the economy is deteriorating over there.
Do you see anything stemming from that? Well that would have been worked into our estimates and changing view if you wish of the future deterioration that might occur.
And we go again to Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to shift the topic a little bit.
So looking at the Europe and South Africa the U.K.
mortality experience was weak this quarter just kind of maybe you can quantify the track for the particular quarter? Yes.
Humphrey this is Jack.
Without putting to a fine a point on it it was roughly $6 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then back to Australia just more from a background information what is your market share in the TPD market in Australia? I don't know that I have that.
Our market share overall would be in the low 20s.
And I expect that on TPD we'd probably be somewhat similar to that.
But I don't know that I can point to a number.
I don't know that we've got industry data enough to sort of come down on a market share for a particular benefit.
Particularly as its our rider on life products.
Typically everything is packaged together.
And we take another question from Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I guess first could you just quantify the dollar amount of reserves for the individual business in Australia? I don't know if we have the individual total reserve Ryan.
We'll get back to you on that though.
John Hayden will get back to you.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess related to that I think lapse rate has been an ongoing issue on the individual business there.
I guess what can you tell us to get comfortable with the fact that -- I mean -- in other words how was that been projected into the existing reserves and is there any potential that as you continue to study what's going on in the individual side that you may need to make changes in projection on things like -- things like lapse rate that could have yet similar impacts to -- after you further studied the group business? I think what I'll say to that Ryan is going back to the Investor Day comments we are going through a repricing exercise on that business.
One of the key factors though I think that's very different on the individual side is we have confidence in the underlying data that we're using to price and to move forward and we don't see the reporting lags that we're seeing in this group TPD business.
So I don't -- my perspective is as I said earlier we're comfortable with the reserving and we do not believe that there's something lurking in the background that we're not aware of.
And we move now to Jeff Schuman with KBW Investments.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one for the clarification of -- I look forward to the additional reserve data that you just mentioned to Ryan but to be clear the $530 that is the total group reserve.
Is that what the $530 is? Correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's what that is.
Okay.
And then on capital management in very active buying back stock this year does that reflect less availability of kind of interesting transactions or is it more the case that there really are some pretty relevant transactions but when you sort of penciled everything out that the share repurchase was just a better way to go? Yes Jeff this is Jack.
I think the way you should look at that is we still have a fairly broad array of potential M&amp;A or block deals that we are constantly reviewing.
So that hasn't changed in any meaningful way.
But as you know it's very difficult to project if we'll execute if we'll be successful on so on and so forth.
So we don't want to be in the mode of continually waiting to see which block deals will be attractive and which we think we can execute and when and so on and so forth.
So we've been as you suggested more active in terms of deploying capital into buybacks.
We also think we have some degree of financing availability.
So that if we did have for instance a block transaction that was relatively sizable that we thought was attractive we think we can add further financing to attract that.
And when I say financing I'm really not talking about equity issuance.
I'm talking about senior debt and hybrid issuance.
Next we take a follow-up from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I think this is the first call I've ever done a second follow-up on.
And the question I wanted to ask is just a little bit more about how the TPD reinsurance works.
Is this more like a Stop-Loss where the primary insurance carriers are taking let's say the first I don't know $0.20 of losses on the $1 and RGA and maybe a few others are taking some level above that or is this a co-insurance type of arrangement where losses come in and you just get a certain percentage of them and it doesn't matter whether it passes the threshold? Yes it's the latter John.
And it's always the case that the direct insurer has at least as much risk as we have.
Research Division</strong> And then the question for you just because I don't know a whole lot about this particular piece in the market in Australia.
I mean how many direct or primary writers are really active in this business.
I think you mentioned that it's really a business that's coupled with group life so -- or packaged with group life how many carriers are really in that business or maybe said a different way how many carriers do you have reinsurance arrangements with? It's probably I think in terms of about 10 to 12 on the direct side in terms of who we do business with a number that's slightly smaller than that.
Research Division</strong> Any household names that we would know about? Yes.
You would know some of the names.
I'm sorry.
I just wanted to come back on the individual reserve number I have had some time to just look through my notes.
About $250 million of individual reserves at the end of second quarter of which about $160 million would be individual DI and the $90 million would be individual lump sum.
And then we have a question now from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I just want to follow-up on something Steven brought up and that's the economic environment.
I think up until now it's been over 2 decades since Australia was last in a recession.
I mean I'm just wondering what kind of assumptions you're baking in for adverse deviations if things get really worse from here and the mines close I mean do you have any experience or can you look to what happened to the last time there was a recession to see what happened to TPD claims? I am not sure we're on any miner groups first of all.
But the economy in Australia for a while has been very uneven.
In places it's been strong in other places it's been quite weak.
And that's been the case since the financial crisis started.
But we are factoring in all of our knowledge about what's going on in Australia and how it's changing into the reserve estimation that we did.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to you Mr.
Lay for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone who joined us on relatively short notice here.
We appreciate the interest.
And with that we'll end the second quarter earnings call.
Thank you very much.
Again ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to RGA's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Greig Woodring our CEO; and Alain Néemeh Head of RGA's Canada and Australia operations.
I'll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder of our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig's prepared remarks we will open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that would cause -- or could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on a pre-tax and after-tax basis for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release for quarterly financial -- and the quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
We are pleased to report a strong quarter one that was favorable in most respects and one in which we had good stability across our diverse regions and lines of business.
Mortality and morbidity claims experience was in line overall including a few regions which had very good experience including the U.K.
Our global financial solutions business had another strong quarter benefiting from higher spreads and ongoing transaction activity while our large block acquisition from 2012 has continued to produce strong results.
Finally there was incremental benefit from the effect of share repurchases and from a lower tax rate.
The net result was an annualized ROE of 13% despite negative currency effects again this quarter.
The operating EPS comparison of $2.14 versus $1.35 a year ago reflects strength this quarter versus the depressed result a year ago.
Premiums were up 9% in original currencies quarter-over-quarter and 6% in translated U.S.
dollars.
Book value per share excluding AOCI is up 5% this year despite the significant charge in Australia last quarter.
Our average investment portfolio yield of 4.75% was roughly even with the most recent quarter but down 23 basis points from last year's third quarter.
The ongoing execution of our capital management strategy continues to enhance key profitability and return measures.
We've opportunistically repurchased shares throughout the first 3 quarters of this year buying back an additional $31 million in shares during the quarter for a year-to-date total of $261 million or 4.2 million shares.
We still have about $139 million available under our current repurchase authorization.
Our excess capital position increased to approximately $600 million reflecting the buybacks and our recent $400 million senior note offering.
We'll continue to evaluate the most efficient uses for that capital.
Turning now to our third quarter segment results.
Our U.S.
Traditional business had a good quarter producing pre-tax operating income of $90 million that's a 24% increase.
All products outperformed the prior-year period due to improved claims experience particularly our group insurance line.
U.S.
Traditional premiums grew 6% reflecting primarily growth in our individual health and group reinsurance businesses.
Individual mortality premium growth of 4% was on the high end and we expect some moderation of this rate going forward absent the acquired blocks.
The U.S.
Asset Intensive subsegment reported another strong quarter exceeding its expected run rate as it has all year.
Pre-tax operating income totaled $38 million versus $27 million last year.
Improved investment yields boost the results in our fixed and equity indexed annuity businesses.
Fixed annuity reinsurance which includes the large block we acquired last year performed better-than-expected due primarily to our further opportunistically positioning of the investment portfolio.
Our U.S.
financial reinsurance operation reported $12 million of pre-tax operating income this quarter driven by a 35% increase in fee income.
Canada results were better than last year's third quarter with pre-tax operating income totaling $36 million reflecting improved claims experienced from a year ago.
A relatively weaker Canadian dollar reduced pre-tax operating income by about $2 million.
Premiums grew 4% quarter-over-quarter and totaled $236 million net of a $10 million foreign currency headwind.
Premium growth was 8% on an original currency basis.
In Asia Pacific pre-tax operating income was $13 million this quarter with good results in all Asian markets and breakeven results in Australia.
Nearly every country in this segment reported stable claims experience with particularly strong performance in Japan.
Segment-wide net premiums increased 4% to $343 million including a foreign currency drag of about $33 million.
On a local currency basis Asia Pacific premiums were up 14% of solid growth rate.
In Australia as you know we undertook a comprehensive analysis of our group claims liabilities in the second quarter which led to a substantial addition to the related liabilities of that time.
Group claims liabilities will run off over the next several years and we believe the adjustments reflected last quarter have stabilized that situation.
There were no changes to the assumptions embedded in those group claims adjustments.
And this quarter's breakeven performance net business was in line with expectations.
Likewise the individual business produced breakeven results this quarter also in line with our most recent expectation.
We continue to believe that we are out in front of the industry issue in Australia and are now seeing more evidence of negative FX reported by others.
In the meantime we continue to manage through our situation by taking action where we can on pricing and also by working with our clients and industry participants to effect change in the fundamental risk profile of the market.
Any significant changes will take some time to implement.
Outside of Australia we remain optimistic about the growth opportunities in the Asian life reinsurance space and expect that area to continue adding significant value to the RGA enterprise.
In our Europe and South Africa segment results were much like those in Asia with overall stable claims experience and good premium growth.
Segment pre-tax operating income increased to $40 million driven by favorable mortality and morbidity experience in the U.K.
this segments largest operation; and a new global financial solutions transaction in Continental Europe.
The new transaction was signed in the third quarter but included a retroactive origination date of January 1 and totaled about $11 million pre-tax through September.
Net premiums grew to $330 million an increase of 9% quarter-over-quarter in reported U.S.
dollars and a 12% increase in original currencies.
Our corporate segment reported a pre-tax operating loss of about $3 million this period versus $6 million last year reflecting slightly favorable overhead costs capital charges from internal allocation.
Our tax rate of 32.5% was below expectations due to various tax benefits and adjustments but we continue to expect a normalized rate of 33% to 34% in future quarters.
In conclusion we're pleased with our third quarter results.
A good top and bottom line performance across all operating segments providing good momentum heading into the fourth quarter.
We're equally pleased to report an operating return on equity of 13% this quarter.
We added to our capital base by issuing $400 million in senior notes taking advantage of favorable market conditions.
Our excess capital is now in the neighborhood of $600 million and we continue to evaluate the most effective uses for that capital.
We repurchased $31 million of shares this quarter all below book.
Excluding AOCI we are encouraged by improving results in our high-growth areas in Asia and Europe and look forward to capitalizing on what we believe to be excellent opportunities in those markets going forward.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA and we'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
The first one on the Asia business.
If you could talk about how the claims trends have been in Australia thus far.
I realize it's a short period but over the last few months versus the expectations embedded in the order charge last quarter.
And then related to that if you look at the earnings outside of Australia then was that a normal period? So as we think about what you're non-Australia business earns is this what we should be expecting going forward? And then secondly on -- Europe had a very strong results what level or what were the main drivers of that? It seems like the fee income was pretty high and you had good mortality and morbidity but the main drivers of that and how much do you think this quarter's earnings are inflated versus what you'd expect in a normal quarter? Jimmy it's Alain Néemeh.
I'll take the Australia question first.
I think it's fair to say Australian claims were high but we expected them to be high.
And so essentially they're in line with what we expected when we set up the provisions at the end of last quarter.
In terms of the other 2 areas Jimmy I think the commentary is similar for both of them.
The earnings in Asia outside Australia and for Europe were probably a little bit to the good of because of good experience.
In Europe we additionally had that one fee income transaction that was backdated to the beginning of the year and so we had a little bit of extra fee income in the quarter.
But that happens quite often with our business.
Research Division</strong> And then is the breakeven of your assumption for future periods outside or in Australia? Certainly when we look at 2014 that would be the case.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could ask one more on just -- what's your outlook for buybacks? You bought a little bit of stock in the third quarter you still have $139 million I think remaining on your authorization.
How should we think about the timing of when you complete that? Jimmy this is Jack.
We do have that much still available.
As we eat into that authorization we are a little more picky so to speak in terms of what price we're willing to pay.
So we will likely be in the market selectively.
If we do that would be a good value in terms of taking out some of those shares.
But I think as you saw this quarter you could expect somewhat of a deceleration compared to the buyback activity in the first half of the year.
So we'll be selective going forward.
And it's probably unlikely that we would eat through the entire authorization through the remainder of the year.
We'll take our next question from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
After completing the $400 million bond offering you have $600 million excess capital relative to I guess your target RBC.
As we think about your appetite for acquisitions should we think about it that you're more comfortable maybe adding on to mortality traditional life-type businesses than Asset Intensive? Because there are some payout annuity blocks out there in the market.
Sean our interest is fairly wide ranging.
It's true that we are probably extremely comfortable and conversant with mortality in all the shades and colors of it but that tends to be a very competitive auction at times and we've found that the returns on some of those auctions have not been to our suiting.
So at times it might seem like we are looking at things that are not in a sweet spot as mortality is but it has to do with the whole range of return characteristics comfortability with the risks involved in the transaction and so forth.
So we look at a wide range of things.
And a related question I think in the opening remarks you mentioned that the Hancock acquisition from last year was I guess performed well in the third quarter.
Is that trending better than your expectations at the time of the deal? It's trending probably a little bit better but it's within the range that we expected when we did the transaction.
And we'll take our next question from Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up tax benefit for this quarter was it FIN 48-related? No.
We didn't really have any reversal of taxes associated with FIN 48 because we didn't during the quarter end up with a release of a tax year.
So no we've done nothing with respect to FIN 48.
The lower effective tax rate had more to do with where our profits were emanating and some minor adjustments upon filing the 2012 return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I think from earlier this year you mentioned that there's -- the expectation is the modest benefit from FIN 48 likely in the first part of this year.
Is this still the expectation? And also kind of sense where it comes towards the end of the year do you have a better handle in terms of potential benefits for the year? Yes.
As we sit here today Humphrey I would expect that we would not have a FIN 48 release in the fourth quarter of this year.
We're not in control of that situation.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more.
So for the U.K.
favorable mortality and morbidity how should we kind of think about in terms of how much of a good driver for this quarter? It's about $5 million.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask first couple of questions about U.S.
financial reinsurance.
You've had good growth there for a few years now it seems to be accelerating further.
I think at your Investor Day you talked about 8% to 14% intermediate term growth.
You've gotten of a whole lot more than that this year.
Is it really due to just a few transactions or is there some sort of broad trend here for there just to be more industry activity? Jeff there's a little bit more industry activity and there's a number of transactions but it's not dozens.
It's a very discreet number of transactions.
A lot of them are financing of XXX reserves or AXXX reserves.
We've done a few of those sorts of transactions where our risks are very remote tail-risk.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then was wondering the 14% constant currency premium growth in Asia Pacific what was driving that this quarter? I think it was spread across the region pretty well Jeff.
We've -- the last several years we've been refilling pipelines in Korea and Japan as some of our treaties from earlier days which were sizable have expired and we pretty much come to the end of that period now.
So I think we're going to see a good premium growth throughout the rest of Asia.
We will also see though in addition Australia premium start to fall off in the future pretty rapidly in coming quarters.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So in this quarter were Australian premiums up or down? Group premiums were pretty much flat.
Individual premiums were up about 14%.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that the sort of growth you are targeting for individual or are you trying to kind of manage that more defensively in line with the group? We're definitely being cautious as we approach the business but recall that there's a step premium nature to the business.
And so premiums will increase year-over-year by about 10% absent any underlying business growth with the treaties that we have in place.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one we've seen an industry pickup in fixed an indexed annuity sales are you expecting to kind of participate in those increased blows or you're still looking more sort of for one-off transactions like Hancock? We would look at any flow opportunities that exist in the market.
Those don't always end up in the reinsurance market that we have been in the past on fixed annuity treaties but it remains to be seen what's available Jeff.
And next we'll go to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to stick with scenery here both in the U.S and international.
First in Europe and South Africa you said there was $11 million.
It sounds like a deal you did maybe was retroactive to January 1.
What should we be thinking about from that deal in the fourth quarter and going forward? Yes Steven this is Jack.
That was -- as you stated that was 3 quarters of fee revenues.
So roughly a third of that would be repeating and that's roughly a 3-year deal.
So there's roughly $0.03 $0.035 per share in terms of revenue you'd expect to see us reflect each quarter going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on the U.S.
re Greig I think you just mentioned that it was mostly XXX and AXXX financings could you maybe talk about what you're doing in this market? I mean is it -- are you providing promissory notes letters of credit what are you doing? We're not trying to take the role of the bank here.
We are working on transactions that get fairly complicated sometimes with a banking partner as well.
So it gets pretty complicated to structure these but a lot of them are involved in financing the various types using captives we're not.
But it's a sort of a wide range of things we would consider.
As I say most of the real activity in the U.S.
has been on the XXX and AXXX front in the last couple of years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But somehow or other you are interacting with the capital -- captive set up by the primaries? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I may just on Australia a quick one.
I think you put up $274 million of reserves if I remember correctly in the second quarter.
I don't know how to say this but how much did you take down how much is left? Yes.
This is Jack.
Let me comment on that.
Yes we put up additional reserves but you may want to think in terms of the entire reserves in the $700 million to $800 million range.
And virtually all of that still remains on the balance sheet.
And we'll go to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I had a question on the individual business in Australia.
At your Investor Conference earlier in the year you had talked about repricing effort in that business and I think a fair amount of the business was expected to be repriced by the end of this year so I was hoping for an update on how that's going so far.
I think fair to say we're still working through that process.
We're in the generally in the process now of working through negotiations with clients as to both timing and amount.
I think I'll leave it there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Is this something that will go enforced by year end and we'll get an update next quarter? I believe so.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then from the individual mortality growth of 4% in the U.S.
does that include any small block transactions or is that all slow business? There were some small blocks in there but nothing significant and noteworthy.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
This is David Motemaden.
I'm asking the question on behalf of Tom Gallagher.
Just wanted to get an update I know in the past you've said that there's a $300 million dollars cushion that you guys would like to have kept at the holdco.
I'm just wondering if that is still the case given the increase in excess deployable capital? Yes.
Well that $300 million is kind of a rule of thumb that we tend to guide towards and we haven't changed that.
All things being equal we would prefer to have that sort of a cushion obviously.
We have more than that in terms of a cushion currently.
Got it.
And then in terms of where you viewed the best opportunities in terms of deals.
Could you just give us a little color on that and also what your target return are -- there is? Best opportunities seem to be in Europe sometimes in North America.
There's a fair amount of activity that we're looking at.
The returns that we're targeting are sort of our historical returns sort of 13% type returns on a GAAP basis.
Got it.
And then I guess is there -- I know in the past there has not been much interest in any VA risk transfer deals just wondering if that is still the case? Yes.
We're not actively looking for VA at the moment.
We wouldn't rule it out if something really attractive came along but it's not that we're out looking for it.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us for the call and to the extent you have any other questions feel free to give us a call here.
And with that we'll end the third quarter conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does end today's presentation.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Fourth Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning to everyone joining us for our RGA's fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me this morning is Greig Woodring our CEO.
I'll turn the call over to Greig after a quick reminder of our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following Greig's prepared remarks we will open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various businesses segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig for his comments.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We are pleased to report another good quarter as fourth quarter operating EPS totaled $2.17 although down from an unusually good quarter a year ago.
Virtually every segment this quarter reported strong bottom line results highlighted by the strong individual mortality results in the U.S.
and Canada and a strong performance in our Global Financial Solutions business.
Our International segment together also performed well over all.
Asia Pacific was particularly strong although Europe and South Africa were slightly weak.
On a global basis mortality was favorable and vibrant financial markets provided a boost as well collectively more than offsetting a higher tax rate and currency headwinds.
Full year operating income totaled $358 million or $4.95 per diluted share compared to $515 million or $6.96 per share last year.
The full year results included of course the $184 million after-tax charge taken in the second quarter related to our Australian operation a disappointing event that detracted from an otherwise very good year.
Reported net premiums were up 1.5% for the quarter and 4% for the full year.
In original currencies those increases were 4% and 6% respectively.
Total revenues topped $10 billion in 2013 a record level and book value per share excluding AOCI increased 7% this year to $69.66.
Our average investment portfolio yield was 4.7% this period down 15 basis points quarter-over-quarter and 25 basis points year-over-year.
With rates stabilizing recently at a new money rate above 4% the downward pressure on earnings could moderate somewhat over the intermediate term.
We instituted a more aggressive capital management effort that added to EPS.
We returned 9% of the beginning of the year market caps with combined share repurchases and dividends through the year excess capital now is $600 million.
And we continue to evaluate the most efficient uses for that capital.
Turning now to our segment results.
The U.S.
Traditional sub-segment had another strong quarter in terms of premium growth and profits.
Pre-tax operating income of $121 million benefited from favorable individual mortality stronger investment income and controlled expenses.
U.S.
Traditional premiums grew 7% quarter-over-quarter better than expected and helped by strength in our individual health and group Lines.
We still expect some moderation of U.S.
Traditional premium growth going forward absent acquired blocks.
Over the past few years premiums have benefited from robust growth in individual health business which we believe could moderate.
Our asset intensive business in the U.S.
maintained its recent momentum gaining -- again exceeding its expected run rate this quarter with pre-tax operating income of $42 million.
Favorable financial markets boosted results so we still expect this business to produce $35 million to $40 million in pre-tax operating income per quarter.
Continued growth in the financial reinsurance operation boosted fee income resulting in a pre-tax operating income of $14 million this quarter.
In Canada claims experience was better than expected and pre-tax operating income totaled $47 million.
Not quite as strong as last year's fourth quarter but a good result.
You may recall that the fourth quarter in 2012 included a $16 million pre-tax reserve adjustment and a pre-tax operating income of 40 -- $54 million.
A relatively stronger U.S.
dollar produced -- reduced top and bottom line results this quarter as it has all year.
Translated premiums were down slightly quarter-over-quarter totaling $243 million net of $14 million foreign currency headwind.
Premiums grew 4% in Canadian dollars year-to-date excluding currency fluctuations premiums grew a solid 8%.
Asia Pacific also had a very good quarter.
Pre-tax operating income of $27 million with particularly good results in Japan as well as in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia.
All Asian markets performed well this quarter and Australia was roughly breakeven as expected.
There were no major developments in the Australian group market this quarter and we expect that situation will take some time to play out.
Our situation remained stable in that market since we increased reserves in the second quarter.
Segment wide net premiums were up 12% quarter-over-quarter in original currencies.
A generally stronger U.S.
dollar adversely affected the reported premiums by $33 million resulting in an increase of only 3% in reported premiums.
In our Europe and South Africa segment results were similar to the prior year fourth quarter with both periods reflecting some adverse critical illness claims experienced in the U.K.
That segment of the market continues to be very competitive and we are not winning many new quotes there.
Pre-tax operating income totaled $14 million for the quarter with strong operating performances in Spain and Italy reflecting typical claims volatility.
Net premiums were down quarter-over-quarter primarily due to single premium and forced transactions in Italy in the prior year.
Those transactions added nearly $100 million to 2012's fourth quarter premiums.
Our corporate segment reported a pre-tax operating loss of about $22 million this period reflecting lower investment income coupled with increases in interest expense and other operating expenses.
Our quarterly effective tax rate of 36.8% was above expectations due primarily to our inability to defer U.S.
taxes on certain foreign earnings.
Overall we're pleased with the fourth quarter and consider 2013 to be a very good year in many respects.
Our U.S.
Traditional and Canada operations posted solid results as did many of our many international operations.
Our Global Financial Solutions business performed particularly well in a period when our U.S.
Mortality business has faced a slowdown.
We continue to see good opportunities in other areas.
And we now have scale and enhanced capabilities on a global basis.
Having said that we intend to be disciplined and opportunistic in putting capital to work.
As expected interest rates were a net negative to us but there was some moderation in this trend.
The charge taken in the second quarter to increase reserves for the Australian group business was a major disappointment.
But this was necessary to address the problems there and the trends in the market there support our decision.
We continue to think that it will take multiple years to restore industry fundamentals and our defensive strategy is unchanged.
Ongoing execution of our capital management strategies continues to pay benefits in the form of improved return metrics for our shareholders.
At this time I'll turn it back over to Jack to discuss forward-looking expectations.
Okay.
Similar to last year we are providing guidance regarding our expectations over the intermediate term given the challenges associated with determining when capital will potentially be deployed into the business when we may take advantage of opportunities to repurchase shares et cetera.
We expect the operating EPS growth to be in the range of 5% to 8% and operating return on equity to be in the range of 11% to 12% going forward.
These targets are consistent with last year and assume a continued low although stabilizing interest rate environment and continued execution of our capital management strategies.
The continuing low interest rate environment is expected to have an adverse effect of about $0.10 per share in 2014 versus 2013.
Premium growth in the near term will likely reflect a reduction from our group business in Australia.
We would estimate that effect to be about something in excess of 1% of our premium base growth rate that is.
Although our bottom line results should not be affected because we've essentially in our view stabilized those results with the charge we took in the second quarter.
Our net premiums are expected to grow in the mid-single-digit range over the intermediate term.
Favorable financial markets provided a modest boost to our bottom line in 2013 and some of the extra income might not repeat itself depending upon how those markets perform going forward.
The vast majority of our success in the intermediate term will continue to be driven by our underwriting results.
Foreign currency is also a consideration and it's hard to predict over time but our near-term expectation is that it will present a mild headwind.
We expect a normalized effective tax rate to be in the range of 34% to 35% over the intermediate term reflecting an anticipated shift of earnings in our operations with various tax rates involved.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA and now we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First you mentioned Australia in your comments but obviously it will take a few years to determine a reserve adequacy but you've had a couple of quarters since the large charge.
Just wanted to get an idea on how claims are actually trending versus the assumption that you'd embedded in your charge? And then secondly maybe if you could discuss your use of captives and offshore subsidiaries you've got.
The Barbados company you've got Timberlake REIT.
How dependent is your business on these? And what would the impact be if there was a change in regulation in terms of captives? Jimmy this is Jack.
Let me start.
Relative to the Australia claims experience it's pretty much playing out as we would have expected.
So certainly we don't have any inclination to change our reserve that -- it will take some period of time before we get a better feel.
But certainly we think we're adequately reserved at this point.
On the captives issue first of all our suspicion is that captives are really not abused within the life insurance and reinsurance industry.
So I think there's been a lot of talk and consideration and deliberation around how companies are using captives.
We don't really think there'll be any major changes on that front.
There will likely there'll be a lot more disclosure which is appropriate so that investors and others have a better feel for how captives are being used.
But we don't really think that there will be any major changes there.
And to the extent there were changes that would have an impact on pricing within the industry.
But that would -- it would essentially affect everybody.
So we don't see any significant issues associated solely with RGA and how we would price this business.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a number in terms of how much of a benefit your RBC ratio has in it because of the use of captives? That's a hard one to answer.
Keep in mind RBC relates only to RGA Re our U.S.
operating subsidiary.
We're writing business all around the world.
So certainly there is a benefit but it's kind of hard to quantify.
And I think it may be ultimately a meaningless number because any risk that is moved as all reinsurers do would not ultimately come back to the U.S.
operating subsidiary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could ask one more.
You didn't repurchase stock in the fourth quarter.
You obviously did have the capital during the quarter as well.
So you mentioned $200 million to $400 million in terms of your capital deployment goal on an annual basis.
Should we assume that if there isn't a deal then at some point during the year you start using that for buying back stock? Or has the increase in the stock price made buybacks less likely? No I think your former statement is appropriate.
To the extent we don't see opportunities to deploy capital into the business then that would make stock buybacks more attractive.
We don't have really a particular point at which we do or don't buyback stock.
We just try to do it opportunistically.
But as I said if we don't have other opportunities to deploy capital then the buyback becomes more attractive.
And we'll take our question from Nigel Dalley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question just a follow-up on the capital.
Excess capital at $600 million didn't change despite the strength of results.
Perhaps you can just discuss why we didn't see any growth in this quarter? Yes.
This is Jack.
I'll take that.
It actually did increase.
We peg excess capital right now at probably $650 million to $700 million -- we had indicated that we were an excess of $600 million in our introductory comments but it's likely closer to $700 million.
I say likely because we haven't yet modeled -- we don't have all the information available yet to model exactly at year end.
But you can presume the excess capital did increase during the fourth quarter because of the earnings retained within the capital structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question on the guidance.
The EPS growth to be the range of 5% to 8%.
That comment was made that it should be applied to normalize EPS.
Obviously there's a lot of noise in 2013 Australia being the most obvious.
Although there's the strengthened market from these taxation distortions bunch of other smaller items.
Can you help us come out with what a normalized base of EPS for 2013 would be? Sure.
That always gets to be a difficult process because at some point you don't know what should be pulled on and what should not.
Obviously the situation in Australia was significant and just reflecting that -- added back in the earnings would take the operating results into the mid-$750 million range or so.
On top of that you can layer on -- the extent to which we benefited from positive mortality somewhat during the year.
Certainly the positive capital markets we wouldn't necessarily expect that to repeat itself.
So as I said it's hard to determine where to stop but I think maybe a run rate for 2014 would have been in the $750 million to $760 million range.
Sorry 2013 is what I meant to say.
And we'll go next to Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the level of activity you're seeing in the block transaction market right now? Maybe how is competition for transactions picked up given either the entrance of private equity or just the relatively high level of excess capital across the industry right now? Yes.
We have been looking at a few small blocks very small blocks.
And we actually closed a few of those minor transactions during the course of 2013.
We were happy to see that.
It supplemented our normal business activity in the U.S.
mortality market.
We haven't really seen any real good opportunities for us in the annuities space recently.
There is heavy competition from some of the private equity people to take a little bit more aggressive posture on than -- investing than we do.
So that's a pretty tough competitive landscape in terms of closing transactions on the asset-intensive side.
But overall we normally expect to see a flow of transactions in force blocks of one sort or another that present themselves.
Some are small some are large.
The larger they are the more difficult it is to predict whether it's going to happen in any given period of time or at all.
The smaller transactions seem to close a little easier with less muss and fuss.
So generally speaking I think 2013 was a year where we were a little bit light on in force transactions.
But we did do quite a number of them they tended to be small though.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I mean is the type of properties available changed at all? And I guess as you're seeing -- are you seeing more blocks sort of have guarantees or other features that I guess may make them either more or less attractive? Yes.
The blocks have changed a little bit over time.
Clearly there's a lot of -- a lot in the market of variable annuities business we weren't particularly interested in those blocks.
So it depends on what companies are looking to divest.
In what direction they want their future core businesses to function.
So we're seeing a little bit of activity in lines of business that are probably problematical to some.
And that's been the case for the last couple of years.
Actually I think we're getting towards the end of that.
We're seeing less of that and more what I would call normal blocks a little bit more in line with the strategy decisions made by the companies that want to divest them as opposed to getting out from under problem situations.
So we're seeing a little bit of a change there but I wouldn't go too far with it.
And we'll go next to Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the last question.
So what lines of business or geographies in particular are you seeing the most opportunity for M&amp;A or large block deals? There's certainly a lot of activity in Europe.
There's a fair amount in North America as well.
But I think there's quite a bit in Europe.
And it tends to run the gamut.
There's really not a lot of commonality it seems with a lot of these blocks we see.
We see blocks of all different types that emerge.
And sometimes blocks together different types of business.
So I'm not sure I can give you a good answer in terms of what kinds of business standout.
Like I said there was a period of time when variable annuities were pushed around the marketplace and structured settlement annuities.
Some things that didn't seem to have too many buyers.
But we're not seeing much of that at the moment.
We're seeing more traditional type situations.
It's still complicated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So are you seeing Mortality business? Mortality tends to be a smaller component of most of the blocks that we see.
Although like I said we did close a couple of small mortality blocks in 2013 that were strictly mortality.
So there's a little bit of that activity that has to do with some special things going on in the marketplace.
But mostly it's asset-related.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just following up on your interest rate comment.
How high would interest rates need to rise before that would become a tailwind to your earnings? This is Jack.
It would probably need another 75 basis points or so.
And we'll go next to Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Asia Pacific.
So can you remind us what percentage of the net premiums now come from Australia given the strong growth that you've seen in other regions for -- in 2013? Yes.
Humphrey the Australia premium base is roughly $700 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at Australia's performance so it was breakeven for both 3Q and 4Q.
And for the other market in the region kind of report a strong performance for both quarters.
However the operating earnings has more than doubled in the fourth quarter.
Can you provide some color in terms of the variance between the third quarter and fourth quarter? And how should we think about it? Kind of on a normalized basis going forward assuming Australia stayed at breakeven? Yes.
This is Jack.
I think we would characterize the fourth quarter results as a little bit higher than the typical run rate.
But I think that's probably the best way I can respond to that.
That we're in a number of markets there and you see variances in every market.
But if you put it all together we would characterize the run rate in Australia is probably exceeding our expectations in 4Q.
In Asia.
In Asia.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question on Europe and South Africa.
So for U.K.
it's once again reported kind of unfavorable mobility.
And it's now being what? 6 of the past 8 quarters.
Are you concerned with the experience in the U.K.? And what has been the major cause for this trend? And how should we think about this the performance going forward? Yes Humphrey.
We've been watching the critical illness experience.
Especially in the U.K.
for some time and have done a couple of extra studies on that.
We've concluded that the fluctuations we've seen so far are within the range of just fluctuations although it is concerning that the business has not performed in the longer-term to our pricing expectations.
We've not been terribly competitive in that marketplace for some time.
And our assumptions are fairly high as far as the market standards go but still they don't seem to be quite performing.
It's not a situation like Australia where this business is explosive.
We're just sort of seeing less profit than we would have priced for and would've liked.
And we've had some good quarters in the same time too.
I think the third quarter of this year was exceptionally good in the U.K.
So there's been a little bit of ups and downs and it has gone both ways.
But generally we're not really thrilled about the -- especially the critical illness experience in the U.K.
over the last 3 4 years if you put it all together.
It's not terrible but it's not what we would like.
Research Division</strong> And usually what are the terms for this treaty.
Are they kind of have any repricing opportunities for you guys? Or how do they work? How do the treaty's work? Research Division</strong> No.
For the block.
Do you have any opportunity there to reprice or...
We have some limited opportunities to reprice and we will take advantage of those when we have them.
But mostly the business is not guaranteed for the longer-term but there's certain limitations into how much you can change premiums and at what times and so forth.
But we're looking at all those repricing possibilities in the U.K.
book.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First just a little clarification on the tax rate outlook.
I assume your new kind of tax rate guidance contemplates eventual renewal of the AFE is that correct? Yes it does Jeff.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you give us kind of any rough sense at all of kind of what that's worth to you at this point the AFE? Yes.
The AFE is not as significant as it was at one time.
I would argue it's probably less than $10 million impact right now.
Whether it's renewed or not.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jack you made a number of comments about the top line.
I was just hoping to kind of review those and kind of tie it all together.
Last year at Investor Day you talked about intermediate-term expectation of 5% to 8% top line growth.
I think you've talked about -- maybe a few headwinds that have emerged.
Obviously Australia is sort of more defensive.
U.S.
mortality continues to mature.
I think there was a comment about U.S.
health maybe moderating from here.
And then I think I heard you say something about mid-single-digit.
So is it fair to say that maybe the intermediate-term expectation is maybe a point or 2 off the range you articulated a year ago? Or how are you thinking about that? Yes I think that's fair.
It's always hard to call because it's hard to determine what block opportunities will present themselves.
But I think if we take a step back because there are certain headwinds.
I think it's fair to characterize that it is perhaps a point or 2 off that prior range.
Yes.
I think it's worth pointing out Jeff.
In 2013 if you take away the effect of in-force blocks and you take away that happened in 2012 and you take away the currency effects we're closer to the top end of the range.
I would expect that it would be closer to the bottom of the range for 2014 because of the currency headwinds and because of the retrenchment in Australia.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because you've said earlier that the constant currency for 2013 is 6%.
But you're saying if you adjusted for differences in block transactions that actually would've been higher than 6%.
Yes.
Remember for example those -- the $100 million of single premium Italian business that came in the December of last year.
You start taking those blocks and maybe you add a little bit for the mortality blocks we added in 2012 back and you're still a number closer to the top end of that range.
And we'll go next to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I was hoping to get an update on the repricing effort on the individual business in Australia.
Yes.
That's -- I think our basic work has been done there those negotiations I think are mostly concluded if not entirely concluded.
And not all the effects have been seen at all in the fourth quarter.
I expect we'll see some effects going into 2014 and some of the effective dates may stagger out through the early part of the year.
The upshot is that we will collect a little bit more premium on the business.
We also though had some business recapture.
So net-net I think we're going to be happier with the position we find ourselves in on the individual side in Australia in 2014 than we had been.
LLC</strong> Is the expectation for Australia in 2014 still breakeven overall? Or did the individual repricing cause a little bit of upside to that? Ryan this is Jack.
I'll take that.
We would expect -- probably the best way to characterize it is a modest profit in 2014 on Australia.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick one on the corporate segment.
It seems like there is some moving parts in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us some sense for what a more normalized level of earnings in that segment would be? Yes this is Jack again.
That does bounce around quite a bit quarter-to-quarter.
I think if you go -- going into 2014 I think our run rate and it will vary every quarter but likely at end-of-the-year we will be close to this.
So run rate would be about at $10 million loss pre-tax on a quarterly basis.
And we'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jack there was -- Greig mentioned a number of times about a really strong individual mortality results in both U.S.
Trad and Canada.
Could you put numbers on that? How much you think you benefited from better-than-expected mortality? Yes.
If you look solely at the U.S.
it was probably for the quarter $0.17-or-so per share.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right $0.17.
In Canada? Canada certainly less than that.
I'd say $0.05 to $0.06 positive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $0.05 to $0.06 okay.
And then I take it from Jeff Schuman's question the active finance exemption was not renewed in the fourth quarter.
It sounds like your guidance is assuming it gets renewed to take care of this year.
Do you assume I guess to you get both benefit from this year and for 2014? Yes.
Well it didn't affect 2013.
It needs to be extended in 2014.
And yes as you suggested we are presuming it will be extended.
Even if it's not because of our mix of business it doesn't have as a significant affect -- of an effect as it would've had a couple of years ago.
But as I said we do expect an extension this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I get that.
And then finally a more general question.
The question of captives came up early.
You do have a Barbados captive.
A number of companies lately have redomesticated their offshore captives from Bermuda or Barbados.
I guess the question would be what's the advantage today of having that captive in Barbados as opposed to bringing it back on shore? The primary advantage -- and we have several companies in Barbados.
The primary advantage is you get more of an economic look at reserves and capital requirements and that sort of thing.
Much more capital efficient.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If my understanding is that whatever reserves you seed over there.
My understanding was you seed that U.S.
Treasury Reserves you still have to have some type of -- you have to have some type of asset that equals the reserve that you seeded on a U.S.
statutory basis.
Is that true? Yes.
that's true.
You have to have collateral.
Yes.
You have to have collateral in the form of assets entrached [ph] or letters of credit or something that will back those lines...
But Steve Steve still it's much more efficient than actually...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I don't understand why that would be -- since you don't really I mean you don't think of yourselves that way in terms of consolidated RBC and excess capital.
I mean I understand the reserves might be less but that really helps you? You're right.
We do have our own economic capital formula.
We run our business using that formula.
But in terms of capitalizing individual operating subsidiaries we do look for the most efficient means possible because that means less financing costs if we didn't move business around.
So it is part of our operating model.
And we're not alone in that respect.
But we do take a step back and run the company and price business more broadly using our own economic capital methodology.
And we'll go next to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to go back to the captive but maybe from a different angle which is is this in any way influencing and I understand your points Jack that and your view on it.
But is this in any way influencing your discussion with counterparties? And if so is it having any positive or negative effect on your outlook for the U.S.
business? The answer Mark is no.
I mean it really doesn't -- in terms -- when you say counterparties are you talking about our clients I presume? Research Division</strong> Your clients.
Yes.
No it rarely comes up.
Our clients presume that we will finance and back our business whatever is most appropriate under the circumstances so no it's not part of that discussion.
Research Division</strong> And more thinking about of it in terms of how you they think about their own captive and their use of XXX and AXXX support.
We haven't been co-insuring AXXX ever.
We have not been co-ensuring much XXX business for quite a while because the market has moved away.
There are cheaper ways for primary companies to finance that rather than to put it into the reinsurers and have them finance it.
And so we get a little bit of that but not a lot.
And I don't think it makes that much difference if that disappears.
It's been a little bit of a financial reinsurance benefit for us to participate in the marketplace on XXX and AXXX business.
But it's not something that's really critical.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just give the outlook on the financial reinsurance business? I know you did the bigger transaction in the third quarter retroactive to 1/1.
What is your outlook on that? And where do you see the opportunities? On the financial reinsurance we've done financial reinsurance now pretty globally.
There's a fair amount of it that we do in Asia.
There's an increased activity in the U.S.
over the last couple of years in particular and a little bit now in Europe.
And we see that that marketplace has become more active.
It's very sophisticated market.
I think we have a lot of expertise in that and it plays very well.
Discussions with companies are continuing along.
We did a lot of transactions in the fourth quarter on financial reinsurance basis.
Some of them will not even take effect until the beginning of this year or early parts of this year.
And so I think we're very pleased with that.
We never can predict how that business is going to grow.
Sometimes it grows quickly and sometimes it stagnates for a while.
It depends on needs in the marketplace.
And those vary from time to time.
And we'll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I just have a question about your capital generation.
So it sounds like your outlook for top line growth is just moderated.
When we think about the $200 million to $400 million of excess capital deployment baked into your guidance should we think that you're capable of generating that much above what you need to invest in your business? Yes Sean this is Jack.
Our run rate is probably right about $300 million.
That can vary year-to-year but that's -- that's -- call that redundant capital above and beyond what we would need just to support the business.
So yes we certainly would expect in a normal year to generate that amount of additional capital.
And then -- question about asset intensive.
I'm sure 2013 results benefited from prepayments and probably some favorable market activity.
But nevertheless it seems like every quarter came in above what you were talking about as run rate before.
What should we think about in terms of a run rate earnings progression in that line of business going forward? This is Jack again.
Our best estimate would be in the $35 million to $40 million range per quarter.
And we'll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess so many questions have been asked and answered.
So Greig I'll just ask this question.
I mean you just made the comment that you haven't really done anything on in terms of coinsuring universal life with secondary guarantees or AXXX type of business.
And you've done a whole lot less on the XXX side over the last couple of years.
I'm just interested in your opinion as to whether all the pricing adjustments in the universal life insurance market especially here over the last 12 months or so does it make you a little bit more interested in reinsuring new business there should you get the opportunities? Or do we still have further to go in your opinion? That's a good question John.
I'm not sure I have an informed answer on that because I haven't looked at exactly what it would take to reinsure those blocks of business.
We have not been comfortable with the lapse rates that we would have to assume in the policyholder behavior assumptions we would have to make to get comfortable for such long-term risks as AXXX.
Now we'll do some way out of the money cat business on AXXX and I feel very comfortable with that.
But the modeling on some of the newer benefits is getting closer to realistic but I don't know how far we are off from that.
And I would hesitate to guess on it.
It was no active project on RGA's part to try to look at that at the moment either.
It's just not on our radar to try to reinsure at the moment.
Research Division</strong> I think that says enough all by itself.
Well maybe we're missing an opportunity but maybe we're just not comfortable yet with where it is.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then I'd like to ask the -- I'm actually more interested in the other side of this captive discussion.
Because my guess is the primary company is to the extent that there is really any scrutiny incrementally from here.
It's really -- it's going to be on the primary insurers I think.
I could be wrong on that obviously but are you seeing any new opportunities for deal flow? You mentioned financial reinsurance but thinking more about traditional reinsurance as a result of some of the companies here really making some changes bringing the offshores onshore Met's got obviously the big project that they are consolidating several insurance subsidiaries.
It's things of that sort.
And obviously I wouldn't expect you to talk about a specific name but wondering if you're seeing any incremental opportunities just as a result of that flow? No I don't think John there's much incremental opportunity from that trend.
I think we have seen some financial reinsurance opportunities that come about because companies are trying to get everything buttoned down in anticipation of where the future might be get out ahead of everything.
And so there's been a little bit of a land rush at the last minute.
So that's part of what's driving some good strong financial reinsurance demand at the moment.
In terms of generating more risk transfer mortality business in the regular marketplace.
We continue to believe that overall the amount of mortality risk reinsured is going to continue to drop a little bit.
It's dropping at a much reduced rate from a number of years ago but it's still not increasing.
It's pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> That's a U.S.
comment Greig? That's a U.S.
comment.
It's also a little bit of a Canadian comment.
It's definitely not an Asian comment where we're seeing good growth and mortality risk acceptance and transfer.
But it's part of the reality of the marketplace right now that a lot of available U.S.
business is going down.
It makes competition -- competition is actually causing us a little bit of the concern right now.
It looks a little bit like a mild version of what we saw at sort of the '99-'04 years or '97-'03 years depending when the competition was.
The number of competitors in the U.S.
market competing for a smaller amount of business is heating up competition a lot.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could sneak one last one in.
Greig I appreciate it.
Just thinking about capital management capital allocation.
I know you guys have spent more time I think incrementally more time over the last 12 months or so really thinking about this particularly given the free cash flow generation of the business.
Do you have a payout ratio or some kind of way that we should be thinking about your return of capital particularly on the dividend side that you and the board have come to any conclusions there? John this is Jack.
I don't think we have quite sharpened our pencils to the point where we can articulate it as a payout ratio.
Keep in mind that that sort of thing is influenced by other opportunities for capital deployment.
I'm talking about the dividend rate as I make these comments because the buyback opportunities and the opportunities to deploy into the business also have an effect.
So I don't think we've quite gotten it down to a payout ratio.
Perhaps we will in the future but we're not quite there now.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on U.S.
and another one on Japan.
So U.S.
mortality I know you mentioned it was favorable this quarter.
But if you look at trends that we've seen over the last few years on the primary side actual to expected has gotten worse across the board.
Swiss Re I know is taking some pain on U.S.
mortality.
Just curious what you're seeing underneath the covers on trends there including this quarter but also more importantly over the last few years.
And then secondly Japan.
Can you comment on what drove the better results there? Was it volume? Was it margin? Was it both? Sure.
Mortality for the quarter was good but mortality for the year was good as well Tom.
It was the second year in a row where U.S.
mortality has been generally favorable.
In particular the fourth quarters have been extremely favorable compared to other quarters in terms of just the raw experience.
It's -- the strange phenomenon maybe.
But there's one particular month that's been -- it's been very good for the last 2 years.
You never know how those things are going to work out.
No we're happy with the U.S.
mortality.
We have a lot of data a lot of information.
Our blocks are very stable.
We can look at our experience on that troubled '99 to '04 business and we can say we're making money on that block.
It's just not as good a return as we would like but we know where that is.
It's a mature block of business and it's now gotten very stable.
So we think that the impact of that block has gotten less over time.
And so that's created some pretty good results in the last 2 years.
And we expect that this slowly -- returns on our U.S.
mortality business are actually moving upward.
In terms of Japan you're right.
It's a little of both.
The business flow has been nice.
There's been some very strong developments in terms of new treaties new flows of business in 2013 generating quite a bit of business that's performed better than expected.
The business is a mix there of some financial reinsurance some facultative business and some other special product development or special program features.
And together they're all performing well.
It's been a good market for us and we expect it to continue.
Research Division</strong> So the outlook for growth in Japan continues to look pretty good? Yes we think so.
It's such a big industry there.
And companies have historically not reinsured very much.
But we're slowly and I have to emphasize slowly because it's not something that's happening at anything like the pace we would like to see.
But it is slowly happening that companies are beginning to see the advantages of tapping into expertise and knowledge that reinsurers may have.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one final follow-up.
Just -- and I know you'd mentioned earlier competitions heating up a bit.
And I'm not sure exactly which markets you're referring to.
Can you talk a little bit about where there is the best opportunity for the best margins that you see in which regions? And how is that influencing your business plan? Well let me phrase it this way Tom.
I was speaking of the U.S.
in particular.
Competition has gotten heated in the U.S.
We still expect to collect our margins.
We still expect to stay very disciplined in all these markets.
The U.K.
has been a tough market for the last many years very competitive very difficult.
But I would say the Asian markets and other markets have been generally favorable for us.
We see markets that are growing and appreciate the things we bring to the table as ones where we can collect a little bit better margins than where it becomes a commoditized price competition.
Sometimes that happens.
That right now looks like where the U.S.
has starting to head and the U.K.
has been in that mode for a number of years now.
And gentlemen we have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks to everyone who have joined us this morning.
To the extent any other questions come up feel free to give us a call here in St.
Louis.
And with that we'll end the fourth quarter conference call.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America First Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning to everyone and welcome to RGA’s first quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me this morning is Greig Woodring our CEO.
We’ll discuss the first quarter results after a quick reminder of our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared comments we’ll open the line for your questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during the call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various businesses segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
We’ve aligned certain business operations and management responsibilities to better fit within our geographic-based segments two of which have also been renamed.
All comparable prior period results have been adjusted to conform with the new reporting ornament [ph].
With that I’ll turn the call over to Greig for his comments.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
I will provide some general comments on the quarter and some industry dynamics.
Then Jack will go over the financials and finally we’ll open it up for Q&amp;A.
This quarter was a bit below our expectations.
We experienced adverse mortality results in our North American operations.
It’s common for our business to have volatility in claims in the short-term but the magnitude of the effect on this quarter was on a high end of historical and expected ranges.
Our first quarter often has some seasonal effect too and we generally have had higher mortality claims that indicate some relationship to the winter months in the northern hemisphere.
We will have some additional comments on the claim shortly but otherwise the results reflected premium growth that was on the high end of our expectations in the US continued momentum from global financial solutions and strong overall results in the Asia-Pacific operations.
The results in Europe were somewhat weak overall with slightly adverse mortality results in the UK offsetting strength in continental Europe and in South Africa.
Benefited from a lower than expected effective tax rate and lower corporate expenses while currency fluctuations have fairly material negative effect to both top line and the bottom line.
So Australian operation had another quarter with bottom line and reserve development [ph] were more or less in line with assumptions we made out of the second quarter of last year.
Moving back to the mortality result for a second I’d like to provide some initial thoughts based upon our analysis today.
Underwriting experience was about $30 million worse than expected in the US about $15 million worse than expected in Canada.
Canada’s severity was the main issue.
There’s a relatively small number of large claims accounted for in short term.
In the US frequency of claims increased in the first quarter.
Severity was the bigger issue with a number of large claims – large claims being defined as $1 million and over – coming in at about 125 claims versus an average of 90 these larger claims were concentrated in our facultative book.
There was a particular elements [ph] from older issue age [ph] policies and long duration policies.
These policies were old seasoned but came from various different periods from our history.
Our facultative policies are individually underwritten and tend to be larger in size hence providing more volatile results.
But this has always been an important part of our business and our results overtime from the facultative focus have been excellent.
We’re not concerned with the performance this quarter and historically our mortality fluctuations move out nicely over time.
That identified any other issues in terms of concentration by client cause of death or otherwise.
I mean we did not see this quarter as negative brand [ph] in the beginning or of a systematic problem.
Given the severe winter that we had this year we suspect it was an unusually prominent seasonal effect but this is always difficult [indiscernible] cause and effect.
We believe that there will be some natural recovery or reversal in future quarters.
While short-term claims volatility could be frustrating at times remember this is an integral part of our business and in fact an important part of the value preposition we provide to our clients.
We’re quite comfortable accepting short-term volatility risks while considering the longer term nature of our business we remain confident in the long-term performance [indiscernible].
In terms of industry dynamics we see no significant major changes in the environment in the various regions in which we operate noting that the US life business remains somewhat competitive.
We continue to find ways to be helpful to clients and our premium have been tracking and been ahead of expectations.
Annual Society of Actuaries survey for North America showed that life reinsurance premiums were basically flat in 2013 after multiple years of decline.
And we note this is a positive environmental factor.
As I mentioned premium growth in the US traditional segment was above expectations benefitted from better persistency in the underlying policies of somewhat recent trend that we hope is one that continues.
In terms of M&amp;A we have continued to be actively evaluating opportunities but we don’t have anything material to announce this quarter.
On the other hand we’re not spending out our capital and we’re fairly aggressive in share buybacks during the first quarter.
With that I’ll turn back over to Jack to discuss financial segment.
Jack? Okay thanks.
We reported operating income of $115 million this quarter or $1.61 per diluted share that’s down from $123 million or $1.65 per share a year ago primarily reflecting the items that Greig just described.
As we indicated a relatively stronger US dollar affected our results to some extent as we gave up about $0.06 per share in operating earnings when compared to last year’s first quarter because of debt foreign currency translation difference.
Net premium growth was solid and increased 6% for the quarter in translated US dollars and 9% in original currencies.
Book value per share excluding AOCI increased to $71.51.
Our average investment portfolio yield was about 4.7% this period which reflects a decrease of about 9 basis points quarter over quarter.
Our new money rate was just below 4% this quarter and a bit below that we reflected in the fourth quarter as investment yields retracted a little bit during the first quarter of this year.
We continue to successfully execute our capital management strategy and bought back 1.45 million shares for about $113 million during the quarter.
We estimated our current excess capital position to be at roughly $550 million and we continue to evaluate the most efficient uses for capital.
Turning now to our segment results the US and Latin America traditional subsegment reported pre-tax operating income of $48 million compared to $72 million last year reflecting the adverse mortality upon which Greig commented earlier.
Premium growth was strong increasing 8% quarter-over-quarter a little better than we expected.
And we also had a little bit better expected result in our individual health and mortality lines.
Our asset-intensive business in the US reported pre-tax operating income of $41 million primarily reflecting favorable spread performance in the fixed annuity reinsurance.
Our financial reinsurance line showed continued fee income growth and added about $12 million to our pre-tax operating income this quarter.
Canada also experienced adverse mortality as was mentioned earlier and posted pre-tax operating income of $22 million.
Similar to the US the adverse experience was driven primarily by large claim volatility.
The relatively stronger US dollar versus the Canadian dollar reduced top and bottom line results to some extent.
Translated premiums fell 5% quarter-over-quarter to $231 million including $22 million of foreign currency headwind.
Local currency premiums increased 4% over the last year which was a difficult comparison considering a favorable accrual adjustment in last year’s creditor business premium.
In our Europe Middle East and Africa segment pre-tax operating income of $14 million was stronger than last year’s fourth quarter.
But both periods fell short of our expectations due to adverse claims experienced in the UK as mortality claims were higher than we expected.
Segment wide our net claims experience was about $12 million pre-tax worse than we would have expected.
We had favorable experience in France and South Africa which was offset in part the shortfall.
Okay this is Jack Lay again.
My apologies.
So we currently were disconnected.
I’m going to pick up with my comments.
I was starting to comment on Europe Middle East and Africa segment.
Pre-tax operating income of $14 million was stronger than last year’s first quarter but both periods fell short of our expectations due to the adverse claims experience in the UK as mortality claims were higher than we expected.
Segment wide our claims experience was about $12 million pre-tax worse than expected.
We had favorable experience in France and South Africa which was offset in part by this experience in the UK.
EMEA premium growth was strong with premiums increasing 16% quarter-over-quarter.
And original currencies premiums were up 13%.
Asia-Pacific had another good quarter with pre-tax operating income of $25 million.
Nearly every market in the segment performed better than expected led by strong performances in our India and Japan businesses.
Segment wide net premiums totaled $382 million up 9% present in original currencies.
Our corporate segment reported pre-tax operating income of $3 million this period a notable improvement versus last year in the fourth quarter as there were various moving parts with the most prominent being lower corporate expenses due to accrual adjustments related to the refinement of our annual incentive compensation since it is paid out in the first quarter for the prior year.
Our effective tax rate of 30.7% was below our expected rate of 34% to 35%.
I would suggest that that rate is continually affected by the cash flows underlying some of our international treaties.
So it’s always a little difficult for us to project that the effective tax rate on a quarterly basis.
It’s little earlier task to reflect what we expect on annual basis.
And I would say at this point probably for the entire year of 2014 roughly a 34% effective tax rate would be our best estimate.
Overall then adverse short-term mortality volatility investment yields and not foreign currency fluctuations went against this quarter but we were pleased with continued strong performance in many markets.
We’re not concerned with the periods of mortality experience and expect the volatility to level out over time.
We’re also pleased to report the ongoing successful execution of our capital management strategies and we continue to simultaneously evaluate global block [ph] acquisitions and return of capital opportunities.
As a reminder we’re hosting an investor day conference in New York on May 20<sup>th</sup>.
We hope to see many of you there.
We thank you for your time this morning and appreciate your support.
And with that we’ll open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Right thank you good morning.
So we see adverse mortality and consider this to be worst conditions were the claims perhaps focused more in the north east whether it’s more [indiscernible] than another location or did you see any patterns [indiscernible] mentality? (Operator instructions) Mr.
Dally you may continue with your question.
Right thanks.
Just on the adverse mentality and the linkages to this with the weather were they claims focused in the north east or some of the other areas that had this [indiscernible] weather or any patterns with regards to the cause of mortality and perhaps being linked to weather-related factor that’s influenced it.
Any color there would be helpful.
Yes Nigel I actually don’t know the answer to that.
I don’t know that we really study that.
In fact the seasonality of claims is not usually more pronounced in the cold areas.
It’s actually more pronounced in say the southern states of the US which have warm summers and cold winters.
But I don’t actually know this quarter where they came from.
And like I said it’s really difficult to connect the dots with any confidence that the cold winter caused it.
When you’re dealing with an extra 35 deaths of large cases that that could happen any quarter I suppose.
Which just often does happen in these quarter and nothing we’ve overly concerned about because when you look over a reasonably short period of time all those things smooth out and we’ll be back on expected overall.
Yeah Nigel this is Jack.
Maybe I just could just add that if we get the claims in it’s not always clear where the individual was residing at the time of their death.
So it’s a little difficult as Greig was sentimenting [ph] to kind of confine it to various regions.
I’d also point out that really it wasn’t just the northeast region.
It was entire US for the most part that had a very difficult winter.
So I think it’s likely not going to be if we did – to the extent do get better information it’s not likely going to be a regional issue but certainly from the standpoint of the northern hemisphere being – going through to a fairly cold winter that we suspect that we did have some – that that did have some implication on our claims.
Okay thanks.
And then the second question with regard to your capital management strategy clearly I could have been buying back stock but your leverage ratios or amongst the highest in the industry.
[Indiscernible] debt reductions and [indiscernible] to you priorities as well.
Yeah.
This is Jack.
I’ll take that.
Our leverage we don’t view it as particularly high.
But we also in term of our ratings don’t think we have a whole lot of leverage ability right now.
And when you take a look at our leverage ratio some of that is hybrid securities which have a more benign treatment from the rating agencies than some of the just pure senior debts.
So we don’t feel over levered but we don’t have a whole lot of leverage ability at this point.
And in fact if we were to go out and try and finance a large acquisition that needed financing above and beyond our current return on capital likely we would want to look at a security that did have some equity treatment like a hybrid [ph].
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Hi good morning.
First on just the mortality just following up on the previous question was there anything related to an interest of percentages [ph] or was it spread across? Like I just want to get a feel for better than this – the business had experienced poor results was related to what you sold in the late-90s or early 2000s.
And then how much of this do you expect to continue or have you seen it continue into this month? And then secondly on buybacks do you expect to remain active throughout the year or given what’ you’ve done already in the first quarter are you going to wait and see what’s the – other opportunities are before pursuing buybacks? And then finally on the 34% tax rate does that – I’m assuming that you’re implying that that’s where the renewal of the active premium finance legislation.
So if that isn’t renewed how much would the impact would be on the tax rate then.
Okay Jimmy.
Let me talk about the mortality.
The mortality was spread overall the areas.
As I said it tended to be a little more facultative business than automatic business.
A lot of it was some very profitable areas that sort of go back into the mid-90s and earlier.
So I don’t think we draw any conclusions about where this was coming from policies had been enforced generally speaking an average of a long time.
So pretty good on that front.
So we don’t really draw any conclusions from that from what we’ve seen.
Yeah Jimmy on the buybacks I’m sure you’re aware we’ve got an authorization for about $300 million for the year.
So that’s likely the maximum amount we would want to buyback during the year.
And certainly going forward we’re always influenced by the extent to which we think we have other opportunities for instance investing in merger and acquisition support and that sort of thing.
So we had a fairly robust buyback in the first quarter.
We will pick our spots going forward and we’ll be influenced by how much redundant capital that we’re generating and the extent at which we expect to have other opportunities for deployment.
Just on that is it fair to assume that you would intend to complete the authorization this year or not necessarily? I wouldn’t put too fine a point on that.
In other words the goal is not necessarily to complete the whole 300.
The goal is more to make sure that we don’t continue to build up a lot of redundant capital.
And so 300 is not a bad estimate.
But I’ll let you the goal we won’t be disappointed if we don’t buyback all 300.
On the other hand if don’t deploy into other opportunities it’s likely we will take advantage of much – perhaps all of that authorization.
In terms of your question on the tax rate yeah the active financing exception has not been extended.
It’s being discussed currently.
I think based upon the input that we get – we kind of expect it to be extended this year.
So my comment on extended tax rate does reflect an expectation that there will an extension there.
For the first quarter it didn’t have a dramatic effect on us.
Certainly it hadn’t been extended.
So we couldn’t reflect our tax provision.
And that’s actually drove off our tax provision by a little less than 1% in terms of the effective tax rate.
Now that was overtaken by other issues that drove the effective tax rate back down.
But that’s the size that was the amount of the additional provision we had to provide.
Okay then finally I recognize it’s early but have you seen the elevated claims continuing to April as well or not? Yeah the trend of spend each month has been a little bit better than the preceding month this year but first that doesn’t form any pattern that you can rely on.
Things bounce around and so forth.
April is okay so far.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Erik Bass with Citi.
Hi thank you.
You talked on the call in the last quarter about seeing increased competition in the US and Canada and can you just provide us some more detail on what is driving this? Whether it’s just a function of the market shrinking over the past few years or is it more aggressive competition from some of the newer players? And in terms of the impact in RGA are you seeing that in terms of lower close rates or is there pressure on your business margins? We’re sticking with our margins.
We don’t see any reduction in margins.
This increased environment mainly due to the fact that the US – in US it may be due to the fact that the overall market size is shrinking a bit and people are competing harder over what’s left in a smaller pond.
We’ve seen our market share fall over the last couple of years.
And we’re okay with that.
We’re not concerned about that at the moment.
The fact is that this environment is a little bit more competitive but we wouldn’t carry that too far.
It’s not by any means the worse market you’ve seen or anything like that.
In Canada the situation is a little different and that there’s a couple of new entrance center that are occasionally taking some business making it a little bit more competitive [indiscernible].
But again it’s still a very attractive market in Canada.
Okay.
And premiums in US and Latin America were up about 8% this quarter.
And in general your comments I think on new business I think are relatively positive.
So can you just talk about where you are seeing growth opportunities in the US particularly in light of the competitive dynamics? We’ve done a few small in-force blocks.
We’ve seen pretty steady growth in our group business and in our long-term care business.
And both of them had excellent results in the first quarter.
Effective that persistency that I mentioned in my earlier comments I think is also a little bit different.
Now we’re seeing that for nine months or so where persistency has just gotten a little bit better industry-wide which with our cross-section it helps us considerably.
And so that’s been a nice feature and we’re happy to see that.
All those things combined can make it a reasonably strong by our estimation premium growth quarter for the US.
Okay thank you.
We’re going next to Sarah DeWitt with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
Just following up on the competitive landscape are you seeing any increased competition from European reinsurers because historically is PNC reinsurance prices have softened.
They kind of tend to be a bit more competitive in life reinsurance.
Are you seeing that dynamic at all? Most of our competition is European based.
So yes I guess we’re seeing competition has increased a little bit over the last little while.
It’s basically from the same group of people that have been here for four years.
But having said that there isn’t a sharp uptick.
Don’t get that impression.
This is just a slow gradual build up over the last couple of years I suppose.
Nobody is changing character in rapid fashion or exhibiting characteristics that are different from one quarter to the next in a big way.
It’s just a slow build up over time.
Okay great.
And then do you expect any – are there implications of Walton Rasing [ph] acquired by Canadian Pension Plan for your business whether that’s increased competition on block deals or even existing business? Well I suppose that could happen in a specific situation.
Walton [ph] is a good company.
And I think they are – and that we’re pleased with where they’ve ended up in this funding round.
And so it could happen but I’m not expecting that we’re going to see that it as a major at all in the next little while.
Okay great thank you.
We’re going to take our next question from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Thank you and good morning.
As we think about demand for life reinsurance over the next few years with principal base reserving being implemented and then in the [indiscernible] will a change be reserving requirements for triple X sort of companies have the whole blast redundant resources is that going to be a factor? Does that factor into the reasons why primary care is pilot for new entrants? I don’t really expect it to have a big impact.
In fact most direct carriers reinsurers are triple X business not on a coinsurance basis.
In other words they don’t transfer that redundant reserve to the reinsurers.
They keep that redundant reserve and have used capitals and other things to help finance that in policy [ph].
Works out to be a little bit cheaper for them to do it that way.
But I don’t really expect that to have a big impact on the overall size of the marketplace.
You could have a little bit and there could be some business that is lost to the principals base reserve.
But if there’s a movement to I guess restrict new capitals and the primary carriers do not capitals to the extent they have in recent years would that benefit your business? Well again it depend on what the reserve level that they have to hold to keep this trade off to eliminate the redundancy of the reserve and that’s the piece that makes everybody accept the provision of capitals in that use then yes it doesn’t change anything.
Okay thanks.
And just modeling question.
I think you said that Asia-Pacific was more or less normalized this quarter and I think some countries are moved around between segments.
What should we think of those as perhaps from run rate in the Asia-Pacific segment? The Asia-Pacific had another very good quarter.
They’ve had a growth store rate [ph] for the last couple of years.
It’s been a little bit nasty because we have Australia reported in that segment for a while part of that period.
And if we take Australia out we can see a nice results coming out of Asia-Pacific.
And in fact good results across the board there.
So we expect this is a little bit better than we expected in the first quarter but we do expect to have pretty good results in Asia-Pacific this year.
Okay thank you.
We’re going next to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Good morning.
Greig you talked about persistency as being one of the kind of drivers of better growth in the US and I have a second question on that.
But how are you looking at this improved persistency? On the one hand you’ve got warranty which applied benefits and the other coinsurance lots [ph] supportive products like – do we look at this improving persistency as a net positive for margin or how are you thinking about that? Oh yes it’s absolutely a net positive for margins.
Not only do you collect more premiums over time but the more persistent the better the mortality in a block of business.
And conversely this is really – most of our business is warranty.
There’s some coinsurance but it’s dominantly warranty.
And so good persistence for you is a good thing.
Okay.
And then I guess just on the grid I guess I’m still struggling a little bit with just the size of the growth.
I get on the LTC [ph] newer area you’re going at reasonably rapidly group business sales I understand.
But I mean it’s still a life-dominated block.
And when you think about the growth rates and you think about persistency not being a seismic change I assume but rather a kind of a steadier improvement I guess I’m still struggling with why the growth was so strong and what is kind of a structurally declining at least for a new business reinsurance market.
Well I would say that in any given quarter there’s always a bit of noise due to policies reinstated reporting that sometimes gets caught out where we don’t get a report in one month we’ll get two in the next month and we’re estimating the first one of those.
And so there’s always a little bit of noise in there.
So it’s hard to pick anything much on one quarter.
But [indiscernible] with the level of premium growth in the quarter and that we noticed a few effects that [indiscernible] some of the [indiscernible] what we hope are sustainable [indiscernible].
Okay.
And then just one more quick one Jack.
Could you explain capital is over $500 million last quarter you kind of gave a framework for how much over I think it was 600 any sense on this quarter how much over the 500? Yes I think that [indiscernible] $550 million over right now.
That is $550 million of redundant capital.
Okay thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Just a question on the large claim issue in the US.
Over $1 million has been the primary cause of the weaker results this quarter.
I get the frequency seasonality but not exactly sure what’s happening on this larger claims issue because we’ve heard the same issue pop up for a few other companies over the last year or two.
And just curious if that’s something you spend any time focused on analyzing in terms of what’s driving that.
Oh yes we do Tom.
But really the answer is that we do get spikes like that and then we get also periods where it’s a lot less.
It’s pretty predictable.
If you look at say any 24-month period large claims are pretty pretty much right on track.
So if they die in the winter they don’t die again.
They don’t die in the summer time.
Yes I mean when it comes to the sustained elevated large claim pattern we can get it for three quarters in a year and that’s above average.
That can usually happen.
But we don’t really see any two to three-year runs of large claims over expected.
So there’s – I guess where I was going with that is if you look at over a multiyear period it’s actually not that larger claims are becoming a larger portion of the overall pool if you will it’s that you’re just seeing greater standard deviation of those or – Yes our mortality results in the US have been very good for the last two years.
And the driver or good or bad in a given period of time is always large claims.
It’s not really frequency that’s quite predictable with the large – the millions of policies we have in quarters.
But when you’re talking about the difference that the [indiscernible] extra claims to make well that’s a pretty small number.
And you can’t predict that from quarter to quarter.
Understood.
So you don’t see this as being a solely issue that’s sort of now coming more into fruition or anything like that? No we really don’t.
That sort of average amount of large claims in the US 90 will tend to rise over time as you get more and more big policies issue.
So that’s the driver of it is not – and as long as large policies start to reach people age 80 age – even age 90 they will die eventually and they will become claims and that’s what we’re in the business for.
Okay.
And then just a question as well if you can comment on what are you seeing from the primaries in terms of retention and pricing and I know you said the market’s been somewhat competitive.
But how about from the primary side are companies generally seeding more retaining more? What’s been happening on that end? Well as I mentioned earlier the overall marketplace that was about level in 2013 over 2012 it was very close to the prior year.
So companies are new to retaining much more or for reinsuring much more.
It’s pretty steady.
We don’t see – the competition in the marketplace is not so strong that companies feel that they should reinsure lots of business because the reinsurers are taking business at a loss.
There’s not a movement to reinsure vast quantities into a marketplace.
It’s too hot.
So it’s a fairly normal but still a little bit elevated temperature competitive environment.
I think that would be how the primary has mostly been.
Okay thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks for the bit of coverage on the US mortality.
I was just wondering you talked about a little bit more on the Canadian the [indiscernible] mortality for the quarter.
On the Canadian side again they have elevated mortality due to a few large claims.
The Canadian business has had a wonderful experience for a long stretch of time.
We really haven’t had too many wobbles in the Canadian experience but this quarter was one of them and they do have a lot of large cases enforced as well just like the US market that in many ways is similar to the US.
It has its differences but in many ways it’s very similar to the US and smaller.
But you can get quarters like this and we just had a result that reflected a pretty bad experience in the book this quarter.
Okay.
And [indiscernible] concentrated in [indiscernible] advantages or how do those claims spread on a [indiscernible]? Yeah I don’t think that numbers we’re talking about are big enough to really draw any conclusions at all Humphrey.
I think that that in Canada that the business is pretty well spread out over the marketplace.
We have a big block of business but these extra claims these extra large claims were coming from – were not enough to draw any conclusions from where they’re coming from or how they’re coming at this stage.
Okay.
Shifting to asset in [indiscernible].
So I think you mentioned in the past kind of run rate would be somewhere between $35 million to $40 million in the quarter.
And then first quarter equity market was not as positive and the sort of the decline.
I was a little bit surprised by the [indiscernible] performance [indiscernible] suggested run rate.
Is there any color for this kind of strong results for the quarter and what’s bond prepayment income [indiscernible]? Yeah Humphrey I’ll – you cut off a little bit so I’m not sure I got the whole question there.
But I think you were referencing the run rate on asset intensive [ph] what can we expect.
Our best estimate right now would be a run rate of about 150 million for the entire year.
So a little bit stronger performance than we would have expected in 1Q but if we had to peg it right now that’s the best estimate I could give you.
I guess the second part was bond prepayment income a benefit for this quarter? Yeah but why we got that performance Humphrey? No no no I mean did you get any like a bond prepayment in the quarter? [Line disconnected] Please stand by.
Caller you may continue with your question.
Yeah this is Jack.
Let me apologize.
I’m not sure why we continually get disconnected here.
I know it’s very frustrating for everybody on the call but hopefully we’ll get it resolved before the next quarter’s call.
Yeah I think the second part of my question was bond prepayment up in the [ph] fourth quarter.
Humphrey could you repeat that.
The connection isn’t real good here.
Okay.
Did you get any bond prepayment in the quarter? Oh yeah we got some but not above and beyond what we would expect so I’d say in terms of that variability on investment income it was pretty much as predicted.
Okay.
If I can sneak in one more.
So for Australia in the press release you mentioned that it was in line with your expectations.
So was it like least [ph] profitable in the quarter? Yes it was.
We were in several million dollars there which is about what we expected.
So it wasn’t dramatic but it was pretty much on the run rate that we expected.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Good morning.
A couple of quick questions.
Greig I’m just wondering how you’re thinking about acquisition opportunities at this point relative for instance to let’s say a year or two or even three ago.
My sense is that the competition out there for potential deals is significantly heated up relative to where it’s been and in particular I guess the sort of new entrant if you can sort of isolate on one is of course resolution which has made it very clear that they have huge interest in acquiring existing blocks of business.
So I’m just wondering if you had to think about – you had to sort of peg probability of getting a transaction done today versus even a couple of years ago I’m assuming that probability is lower.
Maybe you can comment? Yeah yes John I think that’s a fair observation that if you’re looking at the large headline-type acquisition the number of people that are interested in that marketplace is increasing a bit.
We actually expect that there’s going to be more opportunities on the smaller end that we’ll be tackling.
Some of them may not even rise to things we’ll announce because they’re not that big.
Others might be things that we notice we use a chunk of capital.
It’s noticeable for us but falls well below the radar screen of other places.
Okay.
And we continue to expect and see the beginnings of a lot of the companies in Europe beginning to address their changing strategy with respect to mix of business after Solvency II becomes effective.
And many of those companies we expect will be looking to sell pieces of their business or blocks of their business and those may be small enough that they don’t attract widespread competition maybe two or three bidders at a given time.
And we think that market is going to be pretty active in the next few years; maybe not so much this year but really opening up in 2015 and beyond.
Okay I mean I assume there’s already – you’re already have a lot of discussions with some of these management teams sort of setting that process up I assume.
Yeah we are.
We are.
Okay.
Just maybe it’s more of an accounting question and it might be better to take offline but I’m just curious about this.
In larger death claims or frankly just in death claims in general of older – at older ages I’m curious why we even see that show up in your numbers just given – just given that I think I would imagine that the death benefit reserve by the time you get to an older age like that should be at a point where it’s all but covering the actual death claim am I wrong on that? Yeah you’re wrong on that.
That’s probably true for the primary companies that issue universal life or whole life policies.
Remember most of our business is wired fee.
And our reserve is basically – Got it.
– under premium.
Yeah.
So our premiums [indiscernible] and premiums get fairly large but they get nowhere close 1 000 per 1 000.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just a numbers question a ballpark number would be helpful.
I mean just in general when you’re talking about 90-ish on average larger claims per quarter I mean so 350 360 for the year how does that compare to the overall number of policies you’ve got on this – in the facultative book? Oh well it’s like [indiscernible].
Yeah let me say that in the – the last number I remember on the number of large policies and I really haven’t got that number updated recently that I remember hearing.
It was in the tens of thousands.
It’s not a small number but it’s not a huge – it’s not in the millions.
Okay.
All right.
That’s helpful.
And then I just wanted to comment that I’m scared enough about dying once.
I’m so glad we won’t be able to die twice.
Yeah well that’s good.
Thanks.
We’ll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Hey good morning everybody.
Jack first a couple of numbers questions.
The tax rate that you talked about 34% is that for the year or is that for the remaining 9 months? No I was trying to give an annual sort of argument [ph].
So that’d be for all four quarters.
Okay.
And do you know off the top of your head the accrual that occurred that you sighted incorporate another [ph]? The refinement of accruals in corporate? Yeah you mentioned that that was – Yeah yeah that was roughly $8 million or so pretax.
8 million pretax.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just to follow up on the comment Greig that you just gave to John I mean this does explain because these are generally – I would assume older people because this is [indiscernible] that were written in the 80s and 90s.
I would assume that this explains why we haven’t really seen this from the primaries because if this was written on a whole life then the reserve would be there.
You write on a YRT therefore you take a hit given how you write these policies.
Is that an accurate statement of really what’s going on and why we’re not seeing this on a primary side? Yeah a couple of things.
It could be Steven it also is the case that on facultative business the preceding [ph] company very often doesn’t keep any of the case [ph].
Okay.
That was my other question.
So we underwrite the case.
It’s our underwriting.
We keep the entire risk.
And so they wouldn’t have these particular policies necessarily.
Okay.
And one might think that older people just trying to connect the dots one might think that older might be in the south.
Jack mentioned that you tend to see this in the south and of course older people are going to be more susceptible to things [ph].
Well yeah and yeah – let me – if I left the wrong impression let me correct it.
This business was spread out a bit.
It does have a lot of contribution from those older vintages that you mentioned but there are some newer ones too.
Okay.
All right.
That’s all I had right now.
Thanks guys.
We’ll go next to Randy [ph] Krueger with KBW.
Oh hi good morning.
It’s Ryan.
Just one follow up question on the Canadian pension plan acquisition of Wilton Re.
Less about that specific transaction but more broad – we’ve seen a lot of pension money come in to the property as of today.
It would seem like given that pension plans have a lot of longevity risk and mortality risk would be a natural offset.
So I’m just curious if you think longer term we’ll see more pension money come in to the life reinsurance space.
Well I don’t know how to answer that Randy [ph].
It could well be.
It’s hard to guess but there’s always a lot of basis risk when you try to match up their longevity risk with an underwritten insured population mortality book.
It’s generally reverse correlated but it’s not a direct offset and it depends.
You can probably guess as well as I can what people will do especially if the trend starts and people start following.
Yeah Ryan this is Jack.
We could probably build a case that we’ll see some accelerated opportunities there but you could also build a case that would have really very little influence.
So it’s just a hard one to call.
Okay.
That sounds like this is kind of a one-off transaction at this point.
Well yeah we don’t.
At this point yes that’s what we’d say.
Okay.
Thank you.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
All right.
You’re live with your listening audience.
Yeah I don’t know if anyone is left on the line.
I was just – this is Jack.
I was just going to suggest that we wanted to thank everybody for joining us.
Sorry for all the technical problems here.
We’ll try to get that resolved going forward.
But to the extent you have any questions feel free to give us a call here in St.
Louis.
And with that we’ll end the call.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Second Quarter 2014 Results conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay thank you and good morning to everyone joining us for RGA’s second quarter 2014 conference call.
Both Greig our CEO and I will be addressing the call this morning.
We will discuss the second quarter results after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared remarks we will be happy to take some questions.
To help better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of the call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measures under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in our press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional financial information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I’ll provide some general comments on the quarter Jack will go over the financial results and then we’ll open it up for Q&amp;A.
Our second quarter results were strong benefiting from an increase in the diversity of our sources of income as our international and our global financial solutions businesses continued their recent momentum and the U.S.
individual mortality business was back in line.
Operating earnings per share were $2.23 and operating ROE exceeded 12%.
Premium growth was a solid 7% in both the current quarter and year-to-date and our new business activity was strong.
Overall underwriting experience was in line with expectations.
While we continued to have some normal short-term claims volatility in individual segments the diversification benefits of our wide geographic base and product suite provide relative stability.
Our Australian operation had another quarter where bottom line and reserve development were generally in line with the assumptions we laid out a year ago.
On the capital management front we continued buying back shares in the second quarter bringing the year-to-date total to about 2.3 million shares for a total cost of $177 million.
We are also pleased to report a 10% increase in our shareholder dividend and continued growth in book value per share which excluding AOCI increased over 5% so far this year and has increased 11% since the second quarter of last year.
From an overall macro standpoint the outlook remains good as we continue to see good demand for our solutions on a global basis.
Recognizing that we have a robust product suite we’re leveraging our capabilities across our global platform and we have strong positions in most key markets a good balance across our range of businesses and geographies as more developed markets provide us with solid profit streams and excess capital generation while other markets offer more vibrant opportunities due to market growth regulatory change or demographic influence.
The U.S.
individual mortality environment is unchanged – that is to say competitive but rational – and we continue to find ways to be additive to clients in the marketplace.
Our new business activity was solid in the second quarter.
Currently GFS and Asia Pacific exhibit strong market demand matching up well with our capabilities and our market position.
Though we remain optimistic as we look forward we’ll remain diligent in focusing our incremental capital and our efforts on the areas with the highest potential.
We continue to evaluate a range of opportunities to deploy excess capital and our organic growth is currently very healthy.
We still face some headwinds with interest rates being the most obvious but we hope to see moderation of that trend.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Jack to discuss our financial and our segment results.
Okay thanks.
We reported operating income of $155 million this quarter or $2.23 per diluted share versus a loss a year ago when we took a significant charge in Australia.
Overall the effect of foreign currency fluctuations was minimal relative to the second quarter of 2013.
Net premium growth was again solid at 7% in the U.S.—or I’m sorry in U.S.
dollars and 8% in original currencies for both the quarter and year-to-date periods.
Our average investment portfolio yield was 4.79% this period a slight increase over a year ago quarter and versus the first quarter of 2014.
New money investment rates average a little more than 4% for the quarter.
While these yields are in line with our expectations as of the beginning of the year rates have obviously moved back somewhat so we could face some slight downward pressure on portfolio yields as the year goes on.
We repurchased about 800 000 shares this quarter for roughly $64 million.
We estimate our current excess capital position to be a little north of $500 million currently and we continue to evaluate the most efficient and effective uses for that capital.
Now turning to our segment results the U.S.
and Latin America traditional sub-segment reported pre-tax operating income of $89 million which was up slightly from $87 million last year.
Individual mortality claims – experience was much improved versus the first quarter and back in line with our expectations but the segment was a little below expectation as our group operation was off somewhat and we had some client reporting adjustments in the individual mortality business that went against us as well.
Premiums grew 5% quarter-over-quarter with all traditional products contributing the growth.
Our asset intensive business in the U.S.
reported pre-tax operating income of $44 million above the recent range as favorable spread performance continued and relatively stronger equity markets provided a boost.
Our financial reinsurance line continued to report strong fee income growth up 14% in the quarter and 30% for the year due to the continued build-up of treaties and the fairly high level of activity this quarter in particular.
Canada had a challenging quarter and posted pre-tax operating income of $31 million as we again experienced an above average number of large claims although at a reduced level compared to the first quarter.
The claims experience did improve in June and we continue to think this is just normal volatility as there was no pattern that suggested any systemic underlying trend.
Additionally a relatively stronger U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian dollar lowered pre-tax operating income by about $2 million.
Premiums were up 6% quarter-over-quarter reflecting a significant adverse currency effect whereas local currency premiums increased 13% over the last year.
In Europe the Middle East and Africa segment pre-tax operating income totaled $45 million above our expectations with very favorable claims experience in the U.K.
this quarter being the primary driver and collective strength across most of the other markets in this segment as well.
The EMEA premium growth was 17% including a foreign currency tailwind of $21 million.
In original currencies premiums were up 9%.
In Asia Pacific pre-tax operating income totaled $29 million versus a significant loss last year.
The results were stronger than expected due to ongoing underlying growth across most markets along with a boost from higher fee income associated with a transaction in Japan which contributed about $11.5 million pre-tax.
That transaction involved the conversion and reinstatement of an existing treaty.
Net premiums totaled $394 million up 11% in translated currencies and 14% in original currencies.
We saw good premium growth segment-wide particularly in Korea and Japan as these two markets our second and third largest markets in the region respectively have overcome some previous headwinds and have reaccelerated their growth.
Segment premium growth also reflected premiums in Australia that were flat versus a year ago including the net effect of some runoff of treaties premium rate increases and other adjustments.
As Greig said Australia had a small gain for the quarter just above break-even as we continue to work through a fairly fluid process including the consideration of renewals and related repricing and other ongoing actions and effects and response of the evolving market conditions there.
In this quarter we executed a treaty recapture and various other transactions significantly affected several income statement line items including other revenue claims and other policyholder benefits and policy acquisition costs.
Our corporate segment reported a pre-tax operating loss of $14 million this period compared to $7.5 million last year.
The current period includes about $5 million of interest expense associated with the senior note offering last September and some modestly higher corporate expenses for incentive accruals.
In terms of run rate we would expect a pre-tax run rate of roughly $10 million to $12 million in terms of losses each quarter from that segment although it can be somewhat lumpy.
The company’s effective tax rate on operating income was 34.6% for the quarter and 33% on a year-to-date basis.
Our best estimate of the effective tax rate on operating income is approximately 33% to 34% going forward.
This change relative to our previous expected range is primarily due to the ongoing changes in the mix of income in terms of which countries are generating that income and some of those countries have lower corporate tax rates.
In summary we are pleased with the strong overall quarter recognized the $0.11 per share lift from the fee transaction in Japan.
Individual mortality experience in the U.S.
rebounded from the first quarter and underwriting results were much improved in the U.K.
and across Europe.
Our capital management efforts have been meaningful noting the 4% reduction in average shares outstanding and 10% dividend increase that we announced in the press release.
We thank you and appreciate your support and with that we will take questions.
Hi good morning.
First just on the capital deployment I think you bought back about $177 million of stock this year so more than what we would have assumed.
What are your expectations for buybacks in the second half of the year and any views on when you expect to complete your remaining program of $123 million whether it’s this year or next year? And then on Australia if you could comment on how much of the block is running off versus what you’ve been able to reprice.
It seems like you might have been able to reprice more and the premium decline in that business might be lower than what were the thoughts when you took the charge initially.
Jimmy this is Jack.
Let me take the question on capital deployment.
Yes we have accelerated a little bit if you take a look at the first two quarters of this year of our buyback program.
I think you should anticipate that we will moderate that program in the second half of the year.
It’s unlikely we’ll continue to buy back at that same rate particularly since we continue to look at other opportunities to deploy capital into the business.
So we’re always trying to weigh the potential for a buyback against deployment into the business and as I said we continually have discussions underway in terms of potential block transactions.
So long story short you can expect us to diminish at least somewhat the buyback program in the second half unless we’re really presented with some significant buyback opportunities.
On the Australia situation and the roll forward we’ve essentially repriced most of the individual life business.
If you remember the Australia marketplace for us is about equal more or less equal individual and group business.
The group business is where we set up the big reserve last year although the individual business was something that was not performing as we would have liked it to as well.
We put through increases on the individual side and there’s been a fair amount of noise on that but that’s pretty well in hand at this point.
The group side some of the group business has rolled off.
We extended one treaty for a year beyond where we would have ultimately had to take it but we did it at a very large premium rate increase and so there’s a little bit of mixed reactions there too.
But the business is overall showing Australian premiums pretty much stronger than we would have expected a year ago but they are all very conscious decisions on our part about when it makes sense based on the conditions and our experience and our understanding of the marketplace.
Okay and the last one on asset intensive the earnings the past couple of quarters have been better than what you had guided to initially so is it the business is performing better or is it just the benefit of the strong equity markets and has it caused you to review your guidance for that business? I think it’s really a little bit of both.
Equity markets have been strong.
We don’t have an overwhelming effect of equity influence in our business but every little bit helps; and just the general lock-in margins have been pretty good and we’ve taken opportunities to tweak our business and to ratchet those margins up when they present themselves.
So we continue to work at it their treaties that we can continue to execute on.
Thank you.
Hey good morning.
A couple of quick questions for you.
So it’s interesting – you characterize I think overall on a company-wide basis that underwriting results were roughly in line with your expectations.
Do I have that right? Yeah that’s right.
Pretty much.
Okay so if I think about the EMEA segment—I mean how much favorable relative to your expectations in rough terms was EMEA this quarter? This is Jack.
That contributed about $12 million to $15 million of favorable variance.
Okay so then the offsets are really more in the Canadian-U.S.
group.
Anything else? No I think you pegged it pretty well.
It was the Canadian operation and the group part of the U.S.
operation.
Okay.
Greig – boy top line growth was really impressive this quarter.
I guess even year-to-date it’s been pretty good Japan and Korea really contributing to the pick-up in Asia Pacific.
My question – and maybe you can take this more at a regional level – how sustainable do you think that is as you look out to the market opportunities right now? I imagine you have a reasonable amount of visibility at least over the near term.
Yes in particular the Asian growth take Australia out of it it’s a little bit of a wildcard in a different special situation of course.
But Asia growth has been very strong for several years and it just continues to move along in fine fashion.
Now what’s actually happened and made some things visible is in Korea and Japan as we talked about we had some treaties that came to the natural end of their life and we had basically holes that we had to refill in the pipeline but the underlying growth was pretty good even in Japan and Korea in the last couple years if you take where we were in those situations into account so we’re pretty pleased with that.
We think that the Asia growth is sustainable in the intermediate term.
In Europe some of the growth is longevity some of it is related to regulatory changes in GFS but we’re seeing good opportunities in Europe and overall we’re pretty pleased with where growth has been this year.
Okay and maybe could you expand a little bit on Japan and Korea? I know you had a couple of those treaties that you had big—maybe you had coinsurance arrangements is that right that those products sort of ran and ran out I suppose.
But what are you seeing driving the growth now? Is it similar coinsurance type arrangements or has it been more on the block side? No it’s more organic growth.
It’s coinsurance.
There’s a lot of product development there’s a lot of high net worth business in Asia there’s some underwriting oriented production in some of the markets.
It’s a mixture of a lot of different things.
Our Asian teams are very proactive very creative and very skilled at assessing and helping customers meet the needs that they have.
Okay.
One last one just thinking about the U.S.
group side.
Could you characterize what the weakness was? Was it a matter of incidents severity a combination of the two any particular products in particular there? Yes it was on the health side this time.
The group business runs about four sub-businesses and there’s one particular that was sort of off track a bit.
The group business has performed very well for us over the course of time but there’s a lot of variability in that and the thing about the group business is it’s very short-term fixable.
So when things get out of whack they’ll come back into whack as soon as we get through repricing of if it’s just a fluctuation we’ll note that too.
We don’t see anything alarming in this.
This is not a business that we’ve had bad experience on over an extended period of time.
It’s just not very good this quarter.
Last year it was frankly the group life business that was the weakest of the four businesses and so the others were pretty strong.
Thanks very much for the answers.
Hey good morning.
I wanted to follow up on the EMEA underwriting answer I guess because if I subtract $50 million or so of outperformance on underwriting that would still suggest about a $30 million quarterly run rate for the EMEA segment which is quite a bit above where it’s been the last few years.
So I just wanted to confirm that or maybe there was something other than underwriting that drove strong results in the quarter.
Ryan this is Jack.
My response on the question and I may have misunderstood related to the U.K.
part of EMEA so we did have some other positive influences in terms of mortality variances segment-wide so maybe that’s why you’re having trouble reconciling.
Oh got you.
Could you quantify how much the other areas outside the U.K.
contributed relative to expectations? Yeah going from recollection it was north of $5 million probably $5 million to $8 million.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Then it seemed like you may have in your answer to the buyback outlook – I don’t know if I’m interpreting this correctly – but it sounded like you might be a bit more optimistic about block opportunities going forward.
Was that the case? Yes I would say—well that may be putting too fine a point on it.
Since we’ve already bought back about $177 million you can look at it as we kind of front end loaded some of that buyback activity and so maybe we’re a little more circumspect with respect to other opportunities to deploy.
So you know I don’t want to make it sound like we’re about to execute on some major transaction – that would be nice and it may happen but I wouldn’t look at it like that.
I would look at it like we have been able to accelerate some of the buyback—you know the deployment into buyback opportunities so it’s just unlikely we’ll maintain that pace.
Okay got it.
Thanks a lot.
Hey good morning everybody.
Just some follow-ups if I could.
First on the U.S.
group Greig you said it was health business.
Were you referring to major medical or were you referring to something along the lines of vision or dental?  No major medical.
And we’ve had this before already with one company – is this the hepatitis C drugs? I don’t know the answer to that.
Okay.
Then what else did I want to ask? Oh Canada – you noted it was challenging.
You said that operations or that experience improved in June.
Was June back to normal or was it just better than the last five months the previous five months? June was not—I don’t believe June was quite back to normal but particularly the last couple weeks of June brought it back close to normal.
Okay.
One more if I could – we always ask this.
Jack asset intensive what would you consider a normalized run rate there? Probably about $40 million pre-tax I think.
You know it’s going to—depending on what the markets do it will waver a little bit but I think that’s a good run rate estimate right now.
Okay excellent.
One more if I may.
Back on Japan and the activity there would that be with domestic companies or would that be primarily with foreign companies? It’s with both.
With both – okay.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
About the Royal London transaction I think in the press release you talked about the earnings contribution for the quarter was pretty minimal.
Just wondering – where you are in terms of portfolio positioning and when do you expect to achieve full earnings power for the block? Humphrey this is Jack.
We’ve essentially repositioned that portfolio already – that’s been accomplished so we would expect going forward to be more run rate in terms of earnings on that transaction.
Okay got it.
And then in terms of the premium growth in U.S.
and Latin America traditional I think in the press release you mentioned how you’re seeing growth in all product lines but any particular product line that’s been a major contributor for the quarter? There was nothing out of the ordinary so I guess maybe a better way to answer that is it was pretty well spread across all the lines within that operating segment.
Okay so kind of like a mixture of the morbidity products and mortality products were kind of helping the growth? Right traditional mortality as well as the health and group businesses and so on.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
Hi thank you.
As you look over the next few years what role do you see alternative capital playing in the life insurance and reinsurance space? Do you see private equity continuing to be a bigger presence in the market and could you see the securitization market come back and how do you think about the risks or opportunities for RGA related to that? Well Erik yes I think it’s very possible that alternative capital still plays a large role in the coming years.
They’ve demonstrated an appetite.
I think they’re still interested in the marketplace.
There are others looking for runoff solutions.
That provides us with more competition maybe some more opportunities at times because of partnership arrangements but mostly it’s a little bit off to the side of most of the activity we do.
We would view all this as competitive but not unduly disruptive of our intents in the marketplace.
Thanks and anything that you’re seeing on the securitization front? That market has been pretty dormant since the financial crisis but anything kind of percolating there to keep an eye on? I don’t know that there’s anything that I can see that’s really percolating but I think there’s a little bit of discussion about it.
There’s certainly an awareness that the demand for non-correlated assets that can yield some return is high so there’s a little bit more awareness and thought given to it.
But these securitization efforts take a fair amount of work so I don’t know of anything that’s off the ground or close to the finish line yet.
It could well be that that’s something that picks up in the future.
Got it.
Appreciate the thoughts thank you.
Thanks and good morning.
I guess this is another way to ask the question about the pace of share repurchase but given commentary at the investor day I was thinking that maybe you would have raised the dividend by more than you did.
Is that just being cautious to conserve cash in case there are any acquisition candidates that pop up over the back half of the year? Sean this is Jack.
No I wouldn’t say it’s a consideration of cash because we could have increased the dividend by a larger percentage and it wouldn’t really have used up that much cash.
It’s more to have a fairly consistent methodology and track record of dividend increases; in other words we’re proud of a double-digit although it’s low double-digit but it’s a 10% sort of increase and we’d like to think that we can continue to address every year some meaningful increase in the dividend.
So we don’t want to get ahead of ourselves in that respect but it’s really not necessarily a cash consideration.
Okay thanks.
Then in the most recent quarter we’ve seen an announced acquisition of Protective Life who I presume has gone head-to-head with you on bids for mortality blocks.
Does the new ownership or the presumed new ownership of PL would that have any impact on the competitive landscape for block acquisitions? We don’t really think so.
We know of course both parties very well and I think they’re both fine institutions and this will make an interesting combined company.
But we would view Protective Life as sometimes competitors sometimes partners and we’ve had a good dialogue with them about several opportunities so I’m not so sure that this is anything that’s problematic for us; and in fact we’re hoping it’s quite the contrary.
Okay thank you.
Hey thank you.
Just a follow-up to Humphrey Lee’s question with regards to the PRT deal in the U.K.
Jack could you go over how that’s going to kind of show up in accounting? Yes we will reflect it as a risk transfer transaction.
Are you asking for a—without going through line items are you asking for a run rate on earnings? No I’d love it but I wasn’t asking for it.
Okay.
No I just want to make sure I understood the question.
<br>I guess I was a little bit surprised that it didn’t show up as kind of a lump sum in revenue.
Oh because of the asset transfer? No we wouldn’t reflect that as revenue.
That’s simply an asset transfer.
You’ll see it on the balance sheet obviously.
Okay so it’s going to come through as premium and loss expense? Right.
Okay that’s what I was asking.
All right thanks.
Okay thank you and thanks to everyone who joined us this morning for the call.
With that we’ll end the second quarter results conference call and to the extent any other questions come up feel free to call us here in St.
Louis.
With that we’ll end the call.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Colin Devine at Jefferies.
Good morning.
Greig I was wondering if you could speak a little bit about where you’re seeing the greatest opportunities right now going forward in terms of potential transactions? Colin in terms of potential transactions we’re seeing the biggest opportunities in Europe which is a market adjusting to the advent Solvency II in 2016.
We did a Solvency II friendly transaction with Delta Lloyd which was as far as I know one of the first if not the first of those sorts of transactions.
And we think there is a lot of interest in those transactions going forward.
So of all places in the world that's probably the place with the biggest transactions if you put it that way.
In terms of organic growth of course Asia is where the momentum is right now and we have a lot of strong momentum in that marketplace as middle class gross and insurance is a growth industry there.
Following up on the Solvency II question is there possibility of some spillover into the U.S.
from European companies looking to rebalance the U.S.
operations?  Yeah.
Solvency II is a capital regime that has a global perspective.
And so whether they are -- the operations are located in Europe or America or Asia or any other market it doesn’t matter.
They still have a capital charge associated with them that is Solvency II based and so it could well be that there are some U.S.
blocks of business that would come to market or would -- good possibilities for some transaction of some sort.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Hey good morning.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about your earnings expectations for the Voya Term Life block and the Aurora National deal and also if you'd expect any sort of ramp up period or if [indiscernible] would emerge right away? Ryan this is Jack.
We don't typically get into specific discussions of earnings expectations but I can direct you towards relative returns that we expect overtime.
And I'll remind you that Voya we deployed roughly 100 million of capital and Aurora we will deploy about 100 million of capital and Aurora we expect to deploy about 200 million of capital.
And in terms of returns you can think of those in the 14% to 15% roughly expected range.
That's kind of a run rate there is a little bit of build up to get there but not much.
So hopefully that helps in terms of what to expect in those two transactions.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
So 14% to 15% kind of total on the two combined? That's right.
That's right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods </strong> Thanks.
And then I guess given your statements that you don’t see any kind of underlying trends and the issues you've seen in North American mortality I was hoping you could give us maybe some sense of how mortality has been so far in October?  Mortality has been okay in October Ryan but I caution you that that doesn't mean very much with respect to the quarter.
You know either mortality can swing in a three day or four day period very strongly because of large claims and we just have to write it out to the end.
You're right that the mortality experience has been disappointing.
It's been real choppy this year.
Bad first quarter with a lot of large claims and a lot of facultative business.
The third quarter -- the second quarter was fine and the third quarter has been almost the flip of that more frequency than it is severity and smaller policies very little facultative excess.
So we are unfortunately in a period where we've had two quarters that are not good this year but we've always had situation mortality smoothes out overtime and we expect this to be the same thing.
And if you look at it over a two-three year period we'll find mortality to be a nice steady haul.
Thank you.
Just following up on Ryan's question about mortality it seems for primary carriers mortality has been less favorable in recent quarters and they've typically chalked it up to severity and volatility.
But is there anything you've identified in underwriting in certain vintages that maybe causing this kind of industry wide backtracking in mortality? Sean no no we haven't.
We've looked at it very carefully and I'm talking about the U.S.
now and I think same thing would apply to Canada as well.
But I mean talking about the U.S.
for example our block issued from '99 to '04 which is the most difficult return block for us actually had a pretty good third quarter.
The prior and the after that had all the fluctuations in this particular case.
So things just have been very choppy as I said there is really no pattern to it that persists.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I'm just thinking about the returns you're going to generate on the acquired blocks 14% to 15% implies something higher than the sellers were able to generate.
I'm just wondering why you're able to generate higher returns than the prior owners?  This is Jack.
Let me take a stab at that.
I guess when you talk about returns often times some organizations will comment on returns on a statutory basis in terms of the statutory capital.
When we talk about returns we are talking about our own GAAP capital that we feel we need to put behind these businesses.
So that's one reason that the returns can differ from buyer to seller.
We also have to come up with new assumptions on all the underlying issues and certainly our assumptions would be different perhaps than some of the assumptions used in terms of developing a return by the selling companies.
So I think that's the best way to say you shouldn't necessarily expect the returns to be identical particularly as it relates to the underlying capital that is required to back the business.
But are your capital requirements different your GAAP capital requirements different than the sellers? It could be our overall mix of business is different.
The limiting capital maybe a little different.
Generally speaking we have the ability to re-characterize the transaction when we make an acquisition and we're pretty confident in our delivery of this sort of return.
Now we'll go to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi.
First on just your expectation for share buybacks given recent the deals that you've done.
Should we assume that buyback activity will slow relative to the last few quarters? Then I have another follow-up as well.
Yes.
Jimmy I think you saw it slow in the third quarter compared to the first half of the year and I think you should presume that you will see a continuation.
What would cause that to change if the stock traded off dramatically so that we started with a terrific buy opportunity or if -- some of the ongoing discussions in terms of deals on the pipeline dissipated for a variety of reasons.
But those sorts of discussions continue we've already announced a couple of deals so you shouldn't expect any sort of an acceleration of buybacks in the fourth quarter.
So you'll be active but maybe not as much as you've been doing right? Are you ruling out buybacks completely? We could be active.
I'll stop short of saying we will be active.
We could be active but even if we are active it would probably be at a diminished level.
Okay.
And then on the Australia business could you just discuss like how much of the business has lapsed from maybe two years ago? And the treaties you mentioned you've renewed couple a large treaties.
Have you gotten the full price hikes and what type of returns do you expect on those or do you think you'll need to go through another round of price hikes down the road? Yes.
Jimmy we've lapped up some of the big transactions and others we have preserved through large rate increases and they’re substantial rate increases because that was needed and recognized by everybody in the marketplace.
And so while there wasn’t enough time to go through full negotiations and negotiate all terms and conditions between the super funds the direct writers and the reinsures that we would have liked to see and we’ll ultimately expect.
We did see rate increases of a very large character flowing through and we got comfortable enough that we expect regular returns on that business with those sort of premium increases.
And so we did renew or we extended renewed or extended those contracts necessarily for a new full three year period.
But we had basically taken these as one off decisions as they've come to us.
And then as you think about your reserves in Australia obviously you took the large charge last year.
Is it reasonable to assume that -- I'm assuming that you’re comfortable with your reserves already but the trends seemed like they've been better the last few quarters than what we would have expected.
So is there a possibility of a reserve release down the road or you need to see a lot more data before you get comfortable? Jimmy this is Jack.
We would need to see a lot more data because there is a longer tail than you would expect on that business.
So it’s pretty much playing out roughly as we expected.
We have no reason to believe that we need additional reserves there.
We’re comfortable where we are at this point but it will have to play out over several years.
Next we'll take a question from Humphrey Lee with UBS.
Good morning guys.
I just want to follow-up on the mortality in Canada.
So there seems to be elevated number of loss claims.
But can you talk about how the number of claims have transferred in the first quarter? Humphrey we're talking about large claims in the range of 14 to 18 days instead of maybe an expected 10.
So it’s very difficult to see there is no pattern to speak of sometimes it’s up and sometimes it’s down.
But with those kind of limited numbers you’re really not expecting to see a pattern like that except over a long period of time.
Canada has had a very rough string of experience this year.
I’ll remind everybody that follows a long stretch many-many years of exceedingly good mortality.
In some cases more than a standard deviation away from expected on the good side.
So we’re a little bit puzzled by persistence of this current string on the negative side but we hope that it's going to turnaround pretty soon and we expect that over the long course things in Canada are just fine.
Okay.
And then on asset intensive even when excluding the pre-payment income this quarter is still very strong when you look at how equity markets have performed in the quarter.
So you mentioned favorable experience and breadth in the quarter.
Can you kind of elaborate the impact of some of this progress and how should we think about on a run rate basis going forward assuming [indiscernible].
Humphrey this is Jack.
Let me take a crack at that.
First of all in terms of the run rate going forward we had kind of guided towards roughly 40 million pre-tax per quarter.
As we continue to build that business and it’s performed pretty well I certainly would be disappointed if we didn't hit that 40 million.
So we think that's probably a good benchmark and with some opportunity to exceed it.
Now this past quarter we exceeded it fairly substantially.
Everything seemed to kind of fall our way in that business.
We already mentioned the prepayments of commercial loans kind of added.
Even though we have that phenomenon every quarter it was a little more dramatic and particularly we had a fairly large loan pay-off that contributed there so that went our way.
Our equity index annuity spreads widened a little bit and the fixed annuity spreads widened.
It’s really pretty much across the board.
So everything kind of fell our way which kind of as a testament to the earnings power of that business.
I guess I am just a little bit surprised with widening credit spreads for fixed annuities and the index annuities like being such a huge impact in the quarter.
Is there something different that you guys are doing or how much of additional leverage that you can pull for these blocks? There's nothing dramatic that we’re doing.
We continue to look at the investment portfolio and try to take advantage of opportunities we see there and we’ve been able to tick-up the spread a little bit in that respect.
But it hasn’t been dramatic it’s just been little bit around the edges inversely all of the businesses within that asset intensive group.
I'll remind you Humphrey.
Most of that business is closed block so we can manage it effectively and lock in essentially the spreads for duration of those contracts if we're good with our modeling.
And so we don't have a situation where we're open for new business and getting new flows a lot of [indiscernible].
Hey good morning everybody.
First a couple of follow-ups Jack just on Humphrey's questions with regard to spread.
My assumption has always been when you show these big gains in asset intensive that what we're really looking at here to some extent is the difference -- the different GAAP accounting for index annuities with regards to both the hedge assets and then how you account for the liability that's being hedged.
Is that the case this quarter?  No I won't look at it that way because most of that hedging comes out of operating income.
So that's not the way I'll look at I think you can think of it more as around the edges just adding to the spread through some of the investment repositioning that we've been able to do and so on.
Okay alright.
And then a follow up to Jimmy's question with regards to share repurchase activity.
Was your commentary with regards to fourth quarter or going into 2015 as well? Well my comment was really related to the fourth quarter but if you wanted to look beyond that into 2015 a lot would depend on what the pipeline looks like in terms of other ways to deploy capital.
So we always go into… I'm sorry go ahead.
No I was saying I was going to guess I was asking to what extent the capital can be replenished either you've got 600 million north of 600 million you are 300 million for these two deals.
I mean can capital be replenished? Yes well you can think that ordinarily we would in terms of redundant capital would add 300 million to 350 million kind of a run-rate per year.
So yes certainly we expect it to be replenished and it's fairly predictable in that respect.
So we think we will have the capital available to continue to deploy as we've done this year.
Okay and then one for Greig maybe two for Greig.
On U.S.
traditional you assumed reinsurance business in the quarter went down to 16 billion it'd been kind of steady in that 21 billion to 22 billion range Greig what's the takeaway there?  We are seeing the business drop off a bit some of that is reduced market share just depending on certain specific situations not overall increase in competition in the marketplace.
And some of it is -- some companies retaining a little bit more business.
We do expect that business flow in the U.S.
market will continue to go downward next year.
There's some disagreement among reinsurers whether that's really the case or not.
But I think that that's kind of what we believe.
Okay.
So you're thinking penetration is going to continue to drop?  Yes.
Okay.
And then one more if I can the adverse experience in the group business -- was that health insurance again like it was in the second quarter? Yes it was but it was different.
We've four lines in the group business.
We have life and accident.
We have excess medical and we have quarter share medical and we have disability.
It was the other medical line this time.
It was the excess line that had the problem.
Again that...
Okay.
What was it in the first quarter or in the second quarter excuse me this excess?  It was a quarter share medical.
It was a quarter share medical.
Okay all right.
Thank you guys.
Now we'll go to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hey thanks good morning.
This is Mike Ward on for John Nadel.
Just a question on FX.
It looks like foreign exchange did not have a meaningful impact overall on third quarter results but based on where things stand currently it seems it might be more pronounced in the fourth quarter and into next year.
We're just wondering if you would agree with that assessment? Yes this is Jack.
I would agree with that.
If you just look at the translation rates now it would had -- not a dramatic effect but a more significant effect than we saw in the first quarter.
I think it was $0.02 or so I'm sorry in the third quarter.
I think it was $0.02 or so and it would be probably three times or more carefully used current spot rates.
Great and thanks that's all I had.
Not to spend too much more time on Q4 buyback expectations but in response to Jimmy's question it sounded like you haven't repurchased any shares post-quarter close Q4 to-date is that a safe assumption? And also could you just remind me how you think about utilizing 10b5 plans if applicable not just surrounding quarterly blackout periods but also negotiating potential acquisitions? Thanks.
We have not been in the market since September 30th and we do use 10b5 plans in terms of really just to have a plan in place and not end up in a position where we’re tripped up by blackout periods and that’s sort of things.
So we have certainly used that sort of plan in the past.
And to the extent we’re back in the market we’d likely use that sort of plan in the future.
Thanks very much.
We actually have one more question queue up from Steven Schwartz at Raymond James.
Hey one more guys.
Jack could you with regards to the returns you expected particularly on Aurora.
Now you paid I guess $200 million.
There was I believe statutory capital of about 350.
How does that work in generating the returns that you're expecting to get? Steven the returns that I mentioned are based on the underlying capital that we feel we need to back that business.
We don’t really want to comment on the purchase price on that deal.
But in terms of the capital we need to back the business what we expect in that range of 14% to 15% in terms of return.
To the extent that that differs from statutory capital level we can finance that in some respects to be comfortable that we are getting and we’ll be able to continue to get the return based on the GAAP capital that we have back in the transaction.
So the $200 million would be over and above what you paid.
Is that correct?  No.
Think if it is -- once that risk is on the books how much capital do we need to back that business.
Okay.
All right I'll think about it.
Thanks.
You do have a few more callers re-queued.
We'll take our next one from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thanks just a quick one.
If interest rates stay at around current level can you give us a sense of what type of earnings headwind that would present as we go into 2015? Ryan.
This is Jack I think our best estimate is if rates were around the level at the end of Q3 it would likely present about $0.10 per share in terms of headwind on operating earnings.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
That's all I have.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Thanks.
Just I guess continuing on Steven’s question can you just maybe breakout for us how you have 600 million of excess capital here? I’m just trying to tie this to what you presented at your Investor Day in May.
So you ended 2013 with the 600 million.
You’ve bought back 200 million of your stock.
Can you just remind us how much capital you're deploying for each of these block acquisitions that you’ve made?  Let's start with the two acquisitions that we haven’t closed yet we would plan to deploy roughly 300 million into those -- between the two of them.
We announced the transaction earlier this year where we deployed roughly 75 million.
As you state you already know what we've done in terms of buybacks and dividends and so on and so forth which I think more difficult for an investor or analyst to have a view is kind of what additional capital we have backing the business versus the earnings power of the company.
But probably the easiest way to look at that as I stated earlier is we should probably generate about 300 million to 350 million of excess that is redundant capital above and beyond what we need just for the generic business.
Okay.
So I guess the capital generation that you're talking about at our Investor Day you’re still on that ballpark for what do you think you’re going to do this year?  Yeah definitely and as we add transactions that additional generation would tend to grow a little bit.
Okay.
And just one related question where will the earnings from these acquisitions sit on your income statement.
What segments will they reside in?  That will affect both the U.S.
and the EMEA the Europe and Middle East and Africa segments.
There are no further questions at this time.
So I'd like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional remarks.
Nothing other than thanks to everyone who joined us here this morning and to the extent any other questions come up feel free to give us a call here in St.
Louis.
And with that we'll end the call.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Fourth Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome everyone to RGA’s fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me this morning in St.
Louis is Greig Woodring our CEO.
Greig and I will discuss the fourth quarter results after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to take questions.
To help you better understand RGA’s business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue our earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on a pre-tax and after-tax basis for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in the press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations Web site at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
I will provide general overview comments on the quarter and Jack will go over the financial results and guidance and then we will open it up for Q&amp;A.
Our fourth quarter results were strong and they capped off a very good year for us.
A highlight in the quarter was favorable mortality experienced in our U.S.
traditional business but more broadly it was another quarter in which our global operating model worked to our benefit and our earnings diversity by geography and product continue to serve us well.
Operating EPS was $2.99 per diluted share including $0.55 in unusual tax related benefit.
Results were strong with or without the tax boost full year EPS was $9.12 including the tax related benefits that I just mentioned.
Fourth quarter reported premiums were up modestly as foreign currency fluctuations and the Pacific Life retrocession transaction to be recently announced had meaningful effects.
Excluding those effects premium growth was 9% for the quarter and was 8% for the year good indications that our top-line growth remains quite healthy.
Underwriting experience on a global basis was slightly favorable for the quarter as the U.S.
Asia and EMEA were all favorable offsetting continued weakness in Canada.
While I am very pleased with these results I remind everyone that ours is a long-term business and the results this year reflect much hard work over the years to expand our footprint and bring innovative solutions and innovations to clients around the world.
And I am also pleased as I think about the very active year we had in terms of successfully executing on transactions that will add through operating financial success in years ahead including block acquisitions and capital generating transactions such as the embedded value securitization announced in December and the retrocession transaction involving some of our U.S.
mortality risk.
We continue to be active and disciplined in our management of deployable capital and as a result of the recent activity we ended the year with close to $1.2 billion of excess capital.
Thus 2014 was a very successful year in terms of both putting excess capital to work and attractive opportunities enhancing our capital position and flexibility and returning capital to shareholders in an efficient and balanced way.
The embedded value transaction that we announced in early December was an opportunistic move a chance for us to improve our capital flexibility and efficiency and also demonstrate the underlying inherent value of our inforce book of business.
In the U.S.
mortality retrocession transaction we retroceded about 35% of our underperforming block from the 1999 to 2004 era allowing us to release the capital backing that business.
We expect that the freed up capital can be redeployed to achieve higher returns overtime.
Each of the transactions is expected to be accretive to EPS and ROE overtime as the capital is fully deployed.
Going forward we continue to see demand for our solutions and services.
We have a breadth and depth of expertise that we offer clients and we're finding more ways to leverage our capabilities across our global platform.
We have good balance across our range of businesses and geographies as more developed markets provide us with solid profit streams and excess capital generation while other markets offer more vibrant opportunities to the market growth regulatory changes or demographic influences.
We have done a lot of work behind the scenes to prepare for likely regulatory developments and thus feel we are well prepared to manage changes as they apply to both RGA and to our industry.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Jack to discuss financial and segment results.
Okay.
I will give a quick synopsis of the financial results and then provide our intermediate term guidance and some additional forward-looking thoughts.
We reported operating income of $208 million this quarter or $2.99 per diluted share a 38% increase over the $2.17 per share we reported a year ago.
Ignoring the current quarter of favorable tax related adjustments which added about $0.55 per share operating EPS still increased 12%.
Reported net premiums were modestly higher quarter-over-quarter despite the effects of the retrocession agreements that Greig mentioned and the foreign currency headwinds.
Adverse currency movements reduced current period operating income by about $0.09 per diluted share compared with the prior year.
Excluding the spread business our average investment portfolio yield was 4.94% this period up 14 basis points versus the third quarter.
Our new money yield was around 4.2% we benefited again this quarter from higher variable items such as bond and mortgage loan prepayment.
We did not repurchase any stock in the fourth quarter but we closed the previously announced Voya transaction and then executed the embedded value and retrocession transaction.
As Greig mentioned we ended 2014 with close to 1.2 billion of excess capital compared to 600 million at the end of third quarter.
Now turning to our segment results the U.S.
and Latin America traditional sub-segment reported pre-tax operating income of $134 million versus $124 million last year reflecting favorable individual results in both years and improved group results versus a year ago.
Individual mortality claims this quarter benefited from more favorable frequency and severity relative to what we expected.
Premiums were down 1.9% due primarily to the effect of the retrocession agreement.
Absent that premiums would have been up 8.5%.
That retrocession transaction was retroactive to October 1 and reduced premiums by about $130 million but had relatively insignificant effect on the bottom-line results for the quarter.
The Voya transaction was also retroactive to October 1 in terms of premiums and claims growth.
Because this transaction did not close until late in the quarter we did not get the related asset transfer and associated investment income benefit.
So the impact on bottom-line was minimal in the quarter for that transaction.
That transaction added about $35 million of premiums for the quarter.
Our Asset Intensive business in the U.S.
reported pre-tax operating income of $56 million benefiting from continued favorable investment spreads and higher than expected commercial loan prepayments.
We estimate a reasonable pre-tax run rate for that business to be at least $40 million per quarter going forward.
Our financial reinsurance line reported pre-tax operating income of $12.5 million reflecting strong fee income growth from transactions added over the past several years.
Canada had another soft quarter and posted pre-tax operating income of $20 million compared to $47 million last year as higher large claims and a weaker Canadian dollar contributed to the shortfall.
Given the relative persistency of the unfavorable claims levels in 2014 we continue to analyze those claims results but this time we haven't seen anything definitive in terms of what to expect going forward.
Fourth quarter and full year premiums were only slightly higher and were hampered by a significant currency effect as premiums in Canadian dollars increased a healthy 9% in both periods.
Full year pre-tax operating income was off 33% primarily due to the elevated claims I mentioned previously.
In our Europe Middle East and Africa segment pre-tax operating income increased a $34 million from $12 million a year ago due primarily to the ongoing impact from global financial solutions transactions that we executed earlier in the year a smaller GFS deal that we booked this quarter and additionally favorable claims experience overall with particularly favorable experience in UK.
The EMEA premiums were up 4% or 9% excluding adverse foreign currency effects.
With good underlying growth in most of the EMEA markets.
Turning to Asia Pacific pre-tax operating income totaled $25 million balancing a very strong $27 million a year ago.
This year’s quarter reflected ongoing growth in various regions in favorable claims experience in Japan.
Australia was once again in line with our expectation producing a small profit.
Net premiums were up 3% for the segment in translated currencies and 10% in original currencies with the majority of the growth coming from Hong Kong and the Southeast Asia region this quarter.
Our Corporate segment reported in pre-tax gain of about $23 million this quarter reflecting the FIN 48 related interest expense reversal and up approximately $44 million during the quarter.
Without that reversal the segment would have posted a pre-tax operating loss of about $21 million reflecting a higher level of expenses this quarter relating primarily to consulting fees on various new initiatives and some higher incentive comp accruals.
Going forward we expect a run rate of pre-tax operating income to be a loss of around $10 million to $12 million per quarter although it can be somewhat uneven.
Our fourth quarter effective tax rate on operating income of 31.5% was below our expected run rate primarily due to the adjustment I described earlier and the AFE extension.
Going forward our best estimate for an effective tax rate is approximately 34%.
As you know we have historically provided intermediate term guidance at this time of the year and I want to give you further perspective on 2014 EPS and then thoughts going forward.
In terms of our intermediate term guidance we expect our operating EPS growth to be in the range of 5% to 8% and our operating return on equity to be in the range of 11% to 12%.
These targets are consistent with what we have suggested over the last several years and assume a continued low interest rate environment and continued execution of our capital management strategies while this guidance is really based upon a normalized EPS pattern.
For 2014 there were a couple of items that were unusual and could be thought of as generally non-recurring and through the excluded win estimating a more normalized EPS rate.
The largest item was the tax related benefit of $0.55 per diluted share which essentially reflected five years worth of tax and interest accruals released in one year as well as some other tax related adjustments.
That occurred because in 2014 we settled five separate tax years with the internal revenue service.
A more typical pattern going forward will likely reflect selling no more than one or two years at a time.
Next was the effect of several commercial loan prepayments primarily in our U.S.
Asset Intensive business which added approximately $0.25 per share for the year.
Thus we would suggest a more normalized EPS pattern for 2014 would be around $8.30 per share a strong result nonetheless.
This more normalized result was particularly strong as more of the variables that affect our results went our way this year.
So looking forward we reaffirm our intermediate term guidance range and emphasize that our underlying business momentum remains strong.
We also want to identify a few items that will affect 2015 in particular.
First we expect to have a meaningful benefit from the more recent larger transactions we have announced Voya and Aurora in particular.
The Voya transaction will contribute a full year’s effect and hopefully we will close the Aurora transaction at a time that will allow it to effect roughly three quarters of our results.
We expect a negative net impact going forward to our core investment yield driven by lower bond and mortgage loan prepayments and by a lower effective yield on new investments given the current low level of rates.
These things are hard to call but the effect is expected to represent a headwind of roughly $0.30 per share assuming a gradual rise in rates throughout 2015.
It is also difficult to predict the relative movement of the U.S.
dollar we estimate foreign currency to have a negative effect of about $0.30 a share as well as our largest currencies are expected to remain weaker relative to dollar throughout the year.
On the capital management front you should expect us to continue to strive for a balanced approach in terms of the use of excess capital.
We have increased our capital flexibility efficiency and effectiveness in 2014 and we will continue to strive to deploy capital and to attractive opportunities including inforce transactions.
We can also use excess capital to buyback our own common shares as we have demonstrated in recent years.
Our Board has recently authorized a $300 million share repurchase.
Our current excess capital position gives us additional flexibility but we don’t expect a dramatic change in our approach and we will seek to maximize our returns overtime.
Our guidance assumes that we will continue to find avenues to deploy a considerable amount of the capital we generate from operations each year.
With that I'll turn it over to Greig for some final thoughts.
So in summary we're very pleased with our financial results and feel good about the overall business momentum as we look forward.
And we expect to continue to produce an attractive EPS growth rate over the intermediate term supported by attractive capital management.
Business dynamics for us on a global basis remain positive as clients face numerous regulatory and environmental challenges and we’ve an effective solution set to offer to them.
2015 could provide some notable headwinds in terms of foreign currency variable investment income and interest rates but we still believe our intermediate term guidance targets are achievable over this period.
Thank you and I appreciate your support and interest in RGA and with that we’ll take any questions you may have.
I had a couple of questions.
First if you could talk about just to what’s going on in the Canada business so you've had weak margins in the last several quarters.
So anything that you found there in terms of a pattern whether it relates to frequency severity or business written in a certain vintage year? And then secondly thoughts on the timing of completing the 300 million share buyback program should we assume that absent any additional large deals that you would complete the program through a program in 2015? All right let me take the first one and I’ll turn it over to Jack for the comment on the second one Jimmy there.
In Canada the excess claims are all attributable to what we call large cases a $1 million and over type cases.
And while this appears to be a fluctuation it’s been going on pretty consistently throughout the whole year and if you recall sort of four or five years before that were extremely good years in some cases and good years in all of those five years.
At some point you have to begin to question whether because this is a sort of a steady grip whether it is a fluctuation or whether this is something that’s going to continue that in other words the five year period prior to that may have been a period of unusually good experience that we shouldn’t expect going forward and we should expect more of a return to normal but it’s a little bit difficult since we’re only talking about a handful of cases each quarter.
It’s not a large number of policies that are making up this trouble for us it’s an excess in cases or something in the quarter.
And so until we get a little bit more perspective it’s hard to tell exactly where the mark should be but it doesn’t look like it’s as simple as saying it’s a fluctuation but it’s not clear to exactly whether this is an extended bad patch or it’s a return to more of a normal patch.
Yes I'll comment.
This is Jack on the buyback and maybe a few data points would be helpful.
Our best estimate is that we will generate about $350 million or so of excess capital that would be a capital generated above and beyond what we would typically need just to back our current business and on a generic business flow.
So that’s one data point and we also commented we ended 2014 with about 1.2 billion of excess capital.
Now some of that will we put to use when we close the Aurora transaction so maybe you can think of it ex-the Aurora transaction as about $1 billion of excess capital.
So we don’t want to continue to just stockpile capital so we always look at opportunities to deploy both into the business and also then to take out some of our shares.
I think 2014 was a great example where we were able to execute on both fronts and that would be our desire in 2015.
But certainly if we didn’t see any opportunities or something we aren’t able to execute on any M&amp;A or block deals into the business you can expect us to take advantage of this $300 million authorization and begin to take out shares.
And lastly could you just discuss what your energy exposure in the investment portfolio? Yes in round numbers we’ve got roughly 2.1 billion of exposure most of that is in investment grade I think about 180 million of that is non-investment grade.
So we feel we’re in a pretty manageable position there.
I want to talk a little bit about taxes Jack what years are still open? We have closed through 2010 so 2011 on would be open still.
Okay.
And the guidance that you gave for the tax rate the 34% that did not assume an extension of the AFE again? No it does assume an extension of the AFE.
It does assume all right okay.
Okay honestly that’s really all I had.
Jimmy got the others.
I appreciate it.
I wanted to follow-up on the retrocession agreement.
You did give up quite a bit of premium but I’m just wondering what the characteristics of this block are in terms of volatility.
Are you modeling I guess lessened earnings volatility from mortality without that block in your results? Volatility that block is aged and seasoned it should be no more volatile than the rest of our business maybe a little bit less even but it is as we’ve spoken about it before a period of ’99 to ’04 it’s essentially low returns.
So RGA is a Company that has a lot of mortality risk of course and so a lot of our capital is attributable to it.
And we don't use mortality as a diversifier we’re basically constrained by mortality.
In other ways we have a higher capital backing mortality pound-for-pound than companies who have more asset risk and other types of it.
So this was a nice transaction from both sides point of view.
We’re able to take the capital away and the reason it doesn’t affect earnings very much is we were earning a low return based on the large amount of capital we had associated with it.
And we will be able to redeploy that capital with more effective rates overtime and increase the earnings rather than to see a fall off.
And are there other counterparties do you think that would be amenable to similar transactions? Well we will certainly be looking for doing that once again if we can find the right situation.
Okay.
And just one more question about the $0.30 per share headwinds from FX.
Can you give us a little sensitivity as to what buckets that will impact between Canada Europe and South Africa and Asia-Pac? Yes.
Well as you can imagine our estimation is that dollar will progress against most of the currencies in which we write business but the biggest impact maybe the biggest concern is versus the Canadian dollar.
So I think probably 40% to 50% of what we’re projecting in terms of headwind would related to that currency and the rest reasonably well spread amongst the primary European currencies the euro and the pound sterling and then a smattering of currencies in Asia as well.
First I had a question on interest rates the $0.30 EPS headwind you mentioned.
I think last quarter you mentioned something closer to $0.10.
I know interest rates there are generally down since then so I just want to better understand it.
Is the change from around $0.10 to $0.30 all driven by the recent declines in interest rates this year or did you also refine your estimates more I guess or is something else going on? Yes Ryan I think that $0.10 related more to 2014 versus the prior year.
So 2015 versus ’14 it’s a number of things.
We benefited from broadly speaking what we characterize as variable income and that includes bond make wholes and commercial loan prepayments and some other alternative investment pass throughs and that sort of thing and we just think 2014 was a year where a lot of that fell together and you saw our investment yieldhold up very well we don’t expect the benefit nearly as much from some of those kind of ancillary effects in 2015.
And because of what’s happened with the yield environment we just expect absent that other headwind associated with just lower reinvestment rates.
So you combine all that and our best estimate is around $0.30 as we suggested.
And then the $8.30 normalized EPS number for 2014 in that you had already excluded some of that variable investment impact.
Yes.
So should I think of that $0.30 drag relative to the $8.30 or relative to a higher number? Yes you can think of it relative to the 8.30 you're absolutely right we did call out some of the impacts of variable income to normalize 2014.
But you can look it as we pulled out some of the more extraordinary impacts.
We still think there will be additional headwind associated with variable income even after that.
Okay got it.
And then if I take all of this together the $0.30 headwind from interest rates $0.30 from FX but also the meaningful benefit from the Voya and the Aurora transactions that you cited I know your guidance is a bit longer-term.
But do you think you can still achieve the 5% to 8% type EPS growth in 2015 relative to the normalized 2014 number? Yes well certainly that’s one way to look at it and that’s one reason we tried to normalize 2014 that we didn’t want investors to think that and in the same way if you look at last year where we had a difficult year because of the situation in Australia than that kind of -- there is a part the run rate sort of argument.
And this year we had a positive result and we wanted to kind of do the same thing to look to encourage investors to look at it on a normalized basis and that’s what we tried to do.
So I don't think it’s inappropriate to look at it the way you’re suggesting.
Just a question on excess capital I know in the past you’ve talked about a cushion I think it was around $300 million that you’d like to hold.
I just wanted to see if that still the case or should we think about that full a 1 billion kind of post the Aurora deal as available for the right block acquisition.
And just in general any thoughts around what’s the largest deal you would consider given your capital position and free cash flow? Yes I think we’re often asked that sort of question we would characterize that entire billion dollars as available if the right deal came along.
Now having said that we have commented in the past that our goal is to keep a cushion and we’ve indicated 300 million is a good estimate.
I’d say as we become a little bit bigger we think of that cushion in a little stronger terms in other words I think now we look at it more as 300 to 500 as a nice cushion but having said that we would eat into that cushion if the right deal came along because we have a fairly predictable generation of both capital and earnings model and portfolio of risk that really grows off a fairly predictable earnings level so we’re not reticent to eat into that cushion because we can rebuild it fairly predictably.
And then on a related topic I just want to see if you had any updated thoughts on the block acquisition landscape just both in terms of the number of deals you’re seeing in the market and level of competition.
And I was just curious whether there is any impact either positive or negative from the recent decline in interest rates on the market and kind of the likelihood of your completing a deal? Thank you.
I would say the block acquisition market looks about the same at this point this year as it did last year you never can predict which things will come our way the competition is always present and it’s always meaningful.
We think we have some advantages in some situation and some disadvantages in other situations.
But it's really hard to predict these things but I would say that in basic response to your question the pipeline of opportunity set looks pretty good.
In terms of say Solvency II capital motivated transactions in Europe that looks like a pretty attractive landscape as well at the moment.
A couple questions on the guidance to the extent you can comment or maybe just comment on the issue separately.
Does the operating earnings guidance take into account year-to-date changes in foreign currencies? Also I was curious if it assumes mortality in Canada normalizes.
And maybe you can also comment on how you are thinking about Australia in 2015.
Thanks.
Yes this is Jack maybe I can comment there.
The currency situation is tricky and it changes daily as you know.
So we established that guidance early this year currencies have actually moved again so it’s a little bit more since then.
So rather than continuing to change our expectation it’s just hard to call that guidance.
So you could put a bracket around that $0.30 it could either way from there and as stated it’s moved again so it’s a little bit in the last couple of weeks or so.
With respect to your other comments Mike yes I think the 5% to 8% guidance is for us a reflection of how we believe this portfolio of different businesses by geography and product line will perform some will do better than expected some will do worse than expected but we have enough things going and enough momentum that we are pretty confident in it.
In terms of Canada itself like I said we are looking at this situation and at some point you have to say that this continual stream of large cases in excess of what we had expected year ago say and what we had actually experienced for the prior five years will be something we might have to start back bringing to our expectation.
In terms of Australia we do expect a modest step forward in terms of core operating results say before expense allocations and things like that in Australia in 2015 we are expecting them to carry a little bit more of the expense overhead loan but to put that sort of internal.
So Australia will take a small step forward as we expected to overtime.
I just want to see if you guys could comment a little bit on the pricing and competitive conditions I guess specifically in the US and how they have changed maybe over the last year or so? I’d say the pricing environment is okay in the U.S.
it's not great and it's not bad it’s just okay.
It’s maybe a little bit more competitive than it was three or four years ago from our perspective.
I’m not sure everybody would share that assessment but that’s how I think we would probably characterize it.
The market continues to decline a bit in terms of the overall session rate and so that naturally feels I think a little bit of competition but we’re very pleased with our U.S.
performance in this type of market given some of the characteristics of what we see out there and we’ve a good team in the U.S.
we’re happy with it.
And then the last one can you just talk about how your long-term care business performed in the quarter and then do you need to revisit any of your assumptions given some of the reviews I guess at some of your clients that are going on right now? Yes the long-term care performed pretty much as expected.
It’s early days still we haven’t been in that business long enough to develop a lot of actual claims coming in but it’s if anything may be a little bit to the good side but it’s hard to draw any conclusions yet.
We’re very comfortable with the long-term care.
We have avoided a lot of the problems that have caused difficulty we haven’t done any unlimited benefit type business or limited pay business and so some of the things have caused severe problems in the marketplace we came in after that and actually steered away from those issues.
We’re probably expecting another predictable year in 2015 based on what we’ve seen so far.
It’s Joe for Tom Gallagher.
I just wanted to ask a quick question related to interest rate and FX headwinds that you guys mentioned.
Can you talk about some management actions that you're taking to offset that drag perhaps hedging activities in terms of FX or changes in investment strategies that would allow RGA to capture more NII to offset the lost income perhaps from prepayment and low rate? Thanks.
Yes maybe -- this is Jack I can comment on the FX situation.
We're really – it’s difficult to hedge foreign currencies in a way that really protects the U.S.
GAAP earnings stream so we only hedge significant net investment positions and we don’t have that many we have a fairly significant position against the Canadian dollar and somewhat less so against the Aussie dollar and some of the other currencies now.
So we’ve got a fairly broad array of currencies in which we write business so there’s some natural hedge there now as the U.S.
dollar is advancing against all of those.
It doesn’t provide much protection but sufficed to say we don’t try to hedge the P&amp;L impact to any meaningful degree that’s really hard to do.
Now on the investment front it’s kind of a difficult call so we don’t want to be in a position where we’re guessing exactly what’s going to happen in terms of the fixed rate markets and that sort of thing.
We try to come up with a diversified portfolio to provide some protection but we don’t try to artificially immunize some of the investment position so it’s not like we’ve overlaid a lot of protection against that investment portfolio.
Okay.
Well thanks to everyone for joining us this morning and we’re certainly here to respond to any questions should anything else come up just give us a call here at our offices in St.
Louis.
And with that we’ll end the fourth quarter conference call.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Please stand by.
We are about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America First Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning to everyone.
Welcome to RGA's first quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me in St.
Louis this morning is Greig Woodring our Chief Executive Officer.
Greig and I will discuss the first quarter results after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared remarks we will be happy to take questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in the press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I will provide some general overview comments on the quarter.
Jack will go over the financial results.
And then we will open it up for Q&amp;A.
Operating EPS was a $1.77 per diluted share compared to a $1.61 so an improvement versus a year ago but modestly below our expectations as our U.S.
mortality business was unusually weak and our Asia Pacific business was unusually strong.
We experienced adverse mortality results in our North American operations again this year noting that we had unfavorable results a year ago.
It is not uncommon for us to have some volatility in claims in the short term and Q1 tends to have some seasonal effect from winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere but the experience this year was admittedly more extreme.
I'll expand on the claims shortly but otherwise there were many positives to report as our global operating model and diversified sources of earnings again served us well and our international and global financial solutions or GFS segment continued a pattern of strong results and overcame the currency headwind that we anticipated.
As indicated our Asia Pacific business was unusually strong as the results were favorable across the region and including an unusually strong result from the Australian operation.
Premium growth adjusted for foreign currency and the U.S.
mortality retrocession transaction we executed in the fourth quarter of 2014 was 6% as several areas showed solid progress.
Moving back to mortality results I'd like to provide some additional details and color.
Underwriting experience was about $60 million worse than expected in the U.S.
whereas last year the higher claims were concentrated in large claims particularly in our facultative book; this year it was a much broader issue with an increase in book frequency or claim count and severity or average claim size with the automatic impact business underperforming.
The one common denominator this year was age and almost all of the higher claims came from older age individuals pretty much irrespective of the year on which the policies were issued.
Our experience is similar to industry data that we have seen in terms of a material increase in mortality overall and the higher percentage coming from those over age 65.
Further the flu season was particularly difficult in many areas this year and there is ample historical evidence of a direct and indirect influence of the flu and overall mortality rates from a wide variety of illnesses including the obvious respiratory illnesses such as pneumonia to the less obvious such as cardiovascular with the elderly typically affected disproportionally from this influence.
In Canada our underwriting results were $11 million worse than expectations and another in a string of tough quarters as there was a combined effect of higher than expected claim large claims and some increase in the frequency of smaller claims.
We continue to analyze the claims data especially relative to the more recent trends but the results aren't conclusive and we suspect the biggest influence from flu related seasonality.
At this point we would expect the mortality fluctuations to smooth up going forward.
On a capital management front we were aggressive in the quarter in terms of share repurchases noting that our excess capital position coming into the year was very strong.
We hope to continue to take a balanced approach to capital usage as we are funding solid organic growth that we continue to look at in-force blocks.
We will return capital to shareholders through repurchases and dividends as appropriate.
Pipeline of potential in-force blocks in the market remains ample.
The size and timing of any such deals reaching execution is always a bit uncertain.
As we look forward we remain optimistic given a constructive overall environment and RGA's ability to take advantage of opportunities given our client solution mentality and strong balance sheet.
Our new business activity is strong notably in EMEA Asia and through our GFS unit and we would expect our North American underwriting results to normalize.
While we have started the year slightly behind our expectations our intermediate term financial expectations have not changed and we note that 2014 started out in a similar manner and we ultimately delivered strong results.
With that I will turn it back over to Jack to discuss the financial and segment results.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks Greig.
We reported operating income of $122 million this quarter or $1.77 per diluted share a 10% increase over $1.61 per share a year ago.
Reported net premiums were off 4% quarter-over-quarter including the effects of the fourth quarter retrocession agreement and foreign currency headwinds.
Premiums were up 6% when adjusting for those items.
Adverse currency movements reduced current period operating income by about $0.11 per diluted share compared to the prior year.
Turning to our investment results our average investment portfolio yield excluding the spread business was 4.78% this period down 16 basis points versus the fourth quarter when the yield was boosted by variable items such as bond and mortgage loan prepayment.
The portfolio yield was slightly above the first quarter of 2014.
And our new money yield remained at roughly 4%.
There was no substantial impact from mortgage loan prepayments and bond prepayments in this quarter.
Our capital management strategy continues to play out well for our shareholders.
We paid out over $250 million of excess capital this quarter in the form of stock buybacks and shareholder dividends and deployed another $200 million to support the acquisition of Aurora National which closed on April 1.
Following the Aurora transaction we estimate our current excess capital position to be around $800 million and we'll continue to consider optimal deployment strategies.
We would not expect to continue to buy back our equity shares throughout the remainder of the year at a pace similar to that of the first quarter.
Now turning to our segment results.
U.S.
and Latin America Traditional sub-segment reported pre-tax operating income of $20 million well below the $48 million reported in last year's first quarter reflecting the poor mortality that Greig mentioned.
Premiums were down 2% due primarily to the effect of the retrocession transaction in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Absent that premiums would have been up 7% reflecting stable ongoing new business and the positive impact of the Voya transaction.
Our Asset-Intensive business in the U.S.
reported pre-tax operating income of $40 million in line with last year's $41 million.
Both periods benefited from favorable net investment spreads that have been sustained despite lower rates noting the investment prepayments this quarter were modest.
We believe that $40 million is a good run rate for quarterly pre-tax operating income going forward.
Our financial reinsurance line reported pre-tax operating income of $12 million also in line with last year's first quarter.
Given the growth in our global GFS business we are providing Traditional and Non-Traditional breakdowns in terms of our results for our international segments going forward.
Our Canadian segment reported pre-tax operating income of $21 million about $800 000 below the prior year quarter primarily due to higher individual mortality claims and a relatively weaker Canadian dollar which adversely affected the current quarter results by about $2.4 million.
Segment-wide premiums increased 8% quarter-over-quarter in local currency and decreased 4% in translated U.S.
dollars.
The Traditional business posted pre-tax operating income of $17 million this quarter compared to $22 million in last year's first quarter reflecting a higher frequency of mortality claims particularly on policies under $1 million.
Non-Traditional business in Canada which includes longevity and fee-based transactions reported an increase in pre-tax operating income to $4 million this quarter from less than $1 million a year ago including the effects of the longevity transaction we announced in early March which was retroactive to the beginning of this year.
In our Europe Middle East and Africa segment pre-tax operating income increased significantly to $29 million from $14 million a year ago due in part to the addition of transactions booked in 2014 improved mortality in the UK and favorable longevity experienced this period.
Total EMEA reported premiums were 12% lower this quarter and total $300 million including foreign currency drag of about $32 million.
Traditional EMEA business reported pre-tax operating income of $10 million this quarter versus a loss of $2 million in last year's first quarter attributable to a swing from unfavorable mortality experienced in the UK in 2014 to inline experience across the region in the current quarter.
Non-Traditional EMEA business which includes asset-intensive longevity and fee-based transactions performed well this quarter posting a 16% increase in pre-tax operating income to $19 million versus $16 million a year ago reflecting favorable longevity claims experience and new transactions added in 2014 and in this quarter.
Momentum is strong in the sub-segment.
For risk management purposes we executed a longevity retrocession transaction during the quarter that reduced premiums by about $22 million.
Turning to Asia Pacific results were very strong this quarter with good operating performance in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia Japan as well as good results in Australia.
Pre-tax operating income totaled $63 million where we'll have our prior-year total of approximately $25 million.
Segment-wide premiums were flat quarter-over-quarter at $382 million but rose 10% when adjusting for the adverse currency effect of $37 million.
Traditional business in Asia Pacific reported pre-tax operating income of $53 million this quarter versus $19 million a year ago.
A significant portion of that increase roughly $20 million was due to unusually strong individual and group lump sum results in Australia this period noting that the first quarter is typically strong there.
And while we are pleased with the results this quarter we would expect some degree of volatility from quarter-to-quarter in that operation.
Beyond Australia we had another quarter where we saw good results across the region particularly in Hong Kong and Japan.
Our Non-Traditional Asia Pacific business includes asset-intensive business fee-based transactions and various other transactions and also performed well this quarter increasing pre-tax operating income from $6 million to $10 million this quarter.
Our Corporate segment reported a pre-tax operating loss of $6 million this quarter which was better than the expected range of roughly $8 million to $10 million of loss each quarter primarily due to lower general expense level.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA.
And with that we'll open the call for questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
I had a couple of questions.
First can you comment on claims trends in the U.S.
business through the quarter? So is there a possibility that the flu related claims some of them flow into the second quarter as well? And then secondly on buybacks.
You obviously – you bought back almost 4% of your shares outstanding in the first quarter.
So just trying to get an idea on are you expecting to do more buybacks throughout the year? I realize you can't sustain this pace but absent any deals would you remain active on buybacks? And then lastly just a question on the expected tax rate.
I think it was 32.5% in the first quarter.
To what extent was this influenced by like just higher proportion of earnings from foreign markets or has anything changed in terms of your expectations for the tax rate? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Jimmy I'll answer the first one and let Jack do the next two.
The claims through the quarter were pretty strong flow all through the quarter right up to the end from the beginning to the end.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think he was questioning the second quarter it's really too early...
So like it's not something that you saw a lot in the first quarter and then all of a sudden died down – or early in the quarter and died down.
So there's a chance that you see some flow over into the second quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it didn't die down in March no.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're right.
Okay.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Jimmy I'll take the other two questions.
In terms of buybacks yeah we were very aggressive in the first quarter.
I'm sure you're aware we've got an authorization to buy back $300 million of shares this year.
And we wouldn't expect to be as aggressive going forward as the $230 million in shares we repurchased during the first quarter.
Now a lot depends going forward on what the other options are in terms of deployment of excess capital.
And we've got an interesting pipeline.
It's hard to tell what will be executed and when or even if we'll execute on some of the items in the pipeline.
So we have to kind of weigh that.
We were aggressive in the first quarter in part because we started the year with over a $1 billion of excess capital and a lot of that accrued in the fourth quarter last year when we did the embedded value transaction and the retrocession transaction.
So I guess suffice it to say that we will be less aggressive or at least plan to be less aggressive going forward even though it's kind of hard to peg exactly what the target would be for total buybacks during the year at this point.
A lot will depend on other opportunities for deployment.
In terms of the tax rate your comment is accurate.
But really the lower rate this quarter relates to a higher percentage of earnings in some of our international businesses.
So that's really what drove the lower rate.
So it really depends on the pattern of earnings going forward.
We'd expect something all things being equal 33% to 34% range in terms of an effective tax rate for the year.
But as I said it remains to be seen in terms of where the results M&amp;A and whether the foreign operations throw off a little bit more than expected in terms of income.
Okay.
And just to be clear on the buybacks.
Obviously you won't maintain the pace but if you don't do any more deal then it's reasonable to assume that you would do more buybacks throughout this year? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's fair.
I mean if – to the extent it looks like we will not be executing on deals.
We would likely be more aggressive on the buyback front.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Yes firstly just a follow-up on that last comment.
Should we read anything into kind of how aggressive you were on buybacks this quarter and to your expectation for finding block deals near term? And maybe on your excess capital I think you'd cited sort of $800 million of excess capital.
I think you've also indicated you typically like to hold sort of $300 million to $500 million of excess capital.
But to the extent there were block opportunities available I guess how much of that $800 million would you be comfortable using? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well Erik we'd be comfortable using the lion's share of that $800 million.
In other words we have a fairly predictable capital generation stream.
So to the extent we had opportunities and we're looking at businesses that met our return requirements we'd be comfortable deploying a considerable amount of that $800 million.
But over time you had it right.
Our target is $300 million to $500 million in terms of excess capital.
Back to your earlier question I don't think you can read anything into the aggressive nature of the buybacks in the first quarter vis-à-vis our other opportunities because of what I mentioned earlier we started the year with a very significant amount of excess capital.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And then maybe on Canada.
I think in your comments you indicated that you think most of the elevated claims this quarter were more related to seasonal factors.
But obviously you've seen some adverse experience over the past couple of quarters.
So I guess how are you thinking about kind of the benefits ratio or earnings run rate for this business for the remainder of the year? And any kind of update on your thinking about what has been the driver of sort of elevated large claims over the past year or so? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Erik we – in North America both the U.S.
and Canada we don't really have cause of death information at this point.
We'll get that over the course of probably the next six months or so.
So all we can say is that the advanced stages of deaths and other things are sort of consistent the frequency elevation is consistent with a lot of flu claims.
But we really don't know at this point.
In terms of Canada I think the first quarter was very consistent with first quarter last year in total.
And we would expect that claims in Canada are going to run similar to the claims flow last year.
The elevated claims is not from – large claims is not really a lot of numbers.
So it's always hard to get a read on that and it can bounce around a bit.
But we are – after several quarters that have been fairly consistent we're beginning to think that the Canadian flow before that was probably just a good fluctuation.
And that last year's level is pretty close to where it should be.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
Next will be Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I wanted to drill down a little bit more on Asia Pacific.
You said that the results were unusually good and also that the first quarter is typically seasonably strong in Australia in the Traditional business.
I was wondering if you could quantify the contribution to the total $52.6 million from Australia.
And then also just to clarify is the total and permanent disability considered a Traditional product? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> This is Jack.
I'll take the first part of that question.
The Australia results were roughly $20 million or so pre-tax beyond what we would have expected for the first quarter.
And while we don't want to get into what's the actual plan for Australia for the entire year it is – we do have a positive plan.
In other words we do expect positive results there but only modestly positive.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> TPD business is not the source of the upside.
It's not a source of downside either but it's not a source of upside for the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
You've given us some guidance range of how to think of a quarterly run rate in other businesses.
Is there a number you can give us for Asia Pac Traditional? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Oh in terms of a run rate...
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> ...for the year? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Probably – I think a good estimate is maybe $60 million-ish for the year pre-tax.
Inc.</span></strong> That include – that's total Asia Pac? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just a question about how to think of the CDC data a lot of investors saw the monthly trends and the elevated deaths relative to the first quarter of last year.
Can you just remind us what the correlation of your results to CDC data is and is there a certain standard deviation at which it becomes meaningful? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's always hard to pick Sean.
Sometimes it's correlated.
Sometimes it's not correlated.
So I guess that means it's generally unpredictable but when you have something that's a pervasive effect then it becomes a little bit more predictable but it's really hard to take a subset of population especially something as different as insurance populations are compare it to the CDC data and draw hard and fast conclusions from it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Good morning.
I just want to follow up on the overall U.S.
mortality.
Is there like a – what is the distribution between the RGA's legacy business versus the kind of the Voya acquired block and the Aurora block in terms of performance? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Actually the excess mortality was split evenly over all of our segments say the 9904 block the blocks before that and the blocks after that and they all were just about the same.
Okay.
Got it.
And then in terms of the Canada performance you mentioned that there is still not really a particular trend that you can point to but is there any sense of kind of I guess general kind of across vintages? And then also kind of across counterparties (25:40) or the type of products? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we've looked very carefully at individual clients individual eras.
It really is a large case phenomenon that large death claims basically rose to a new level last year from a very modest level.
And there's not a lot of claims there.
So it isn't anything you can draw statistically relevant conclusions about in any of the subsegments or individual cells at this point.
And we've looked and continue to look in our Canadian business at things like that.
But at this point are pretty much reaching the conclusion that it's just sort of spread across the business.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then lastly on – thank you for kind of breaking down the Traditional and Non-Traditional business in the international segments.
Looking at the results in Canada and Asia Pacific there seems to be some one-off transactions that helped the bottom line.
Other than in Canada for the longevities transaction any kind of statistically kind of like the one-off transactions that helped the numbers in the quarter? And how should we think about your run rate earnings based on the book of business that you have right now? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah Humphrey let me take the first part of that.
This is Jack.
No there weren't any particular transactions significant transactions that kind of skewed the results to any meaningful degree in most of the segments a little bit more so in Canada just because we don't have much in the Non-Traditional segment.
But if you look at some of the others EMEA we announced some transactions last year that had some impact.
But in terms of relatively new transactions this quarter there were really none that disproportionately had an impact on the Non-Traditional business.
So basically the earnings power of this quarter would be a decent run rate? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It is.
Now there's more volatility in that sub-segment just because it's not as large.
But no I think that's safe to say.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Jack I wanted to follow up on your response to Sean's question because perhaps I misheard you.
But did you say $60 million for full year Asia Pacific Traditional earnings? Because I think you did $53 million in the quarter.
So I just wanted to follow up on that.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That's right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> So that would suggest very minimal earnings for the next three quarters of the year in that business.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> No I'm not trying to project – I'm not necessarily trying to project for the year.
$60 million to $70 million is a reasonable projection.
Perhaps $60 million to $80 million for the total Traditional portion of that segment.
But we did have significant upside as we mentioned in the first quarter.
So we're certainly not guiding to try to indicate that that's a run rate in terms of what...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> The $60 million to $80 million would have been what you expected coming into the year but then this was much better than expected.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
Got it.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> And we stated that in the release.
It was unusually strong in terms of Asia Pacific in the first quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
And then can you remind us how much earnings you expect the Aurora deal to generate and if it will be immediate or if there will be some sort of ramp-up period.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Aurora likely would be in the $30 million range annually and there'll be a little bit of a ramp-up.
I think we've mentioned that there was no impact in the first quarter but it is effective as of the beginning of the second quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then that'll be split partially in asset-intensive and partially in life.
Is that correct? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Ryan just asked a bunch but I do have one question.
Back in Australia historically the guidance had been following the big reserve increases that breakeven that basically deficiency reserve was taken.
Is that gone now Jack? And we're actually seeing earnings coming out of there and should continue to see earnings coming out of there? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Steven just want to make sure I understand the question when you say is that gone what exactly do you mean? Inc.</span></strong> I guess I'm not exactly sure how the accounting would work.
But are we past the period of time I guess where you expect earnings to be breakeven? And what's changed I guess is a better way of putting it? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We expect better than a breakeven result.
But we still don't expect profitability up to the level you would have seen from the Australia operation two or three years ago.
So we do expect a positive result.
But it's still – I'd characterize it as relatively modest.
We still expect some volatility.
And I'll remind you that the group claims IBNR that we set up a couple of years ago a lot of that still exist because it's a long tail business.
So that situation is still playing out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
That's all I have.
Like I said Ryan asked the others.
Thanks.
And we'll go next to Scott Frost with Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
This is regarding the 6.75% hybrids that I think flow to LIBOR plus 2.66% in December to call date.
Could you maybe remind us of the NRSRO treatment of that from a capital perspective? And I have a follow-up.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well we think of it more in terms of – each of the rating agencies has a different capital treatment of that security.
Right.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> It's a little more benign...
What Moody's bucket is it in? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> I think it's in bucket B.
Okay.
And is it within the S&amp;P – in S&amp;P how do they let you treat it? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
S&amp;P as long as we're within the 15% or so cap treats it as equivalent to equity capital.
Is that where you are now? I'm assuming yes.
Is that...
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That's right.
Okay.
And how should we think of this in terms of how attractive this instrument is in your overall capital structure? How do you view that? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well I guess I would say it is attractive.
Hybrid securities are part of our permanent capitalization.
At least that's the way we think of it now.
If you're asking what are we going to do with that security in December that really remains to be seen at this point.
But I will say hybrids we view them to be a permanent part of our capital.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
At this time we have one question remaining in the queue.
We'll take our next question from Dan Bergman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
There's been some recent press reports about a couple of sizable life blocks potentially coming to the market.
The big picture I just wanted to see if there's any additional color you could provide on the block acquisition pipeline and level of activity in the market.
And whether you've seen any change recently? And related to that how you would characterize I guess the sweet spot or target size for individual deals you might look to pursue in terms of capital deployed? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say Dan our pipelines this year are pretty similar to what they were last year.
We never know when things are going to break through to be executed.
But we actually look at things that run a range from small to large.
And while we don't always do headline deals we are consistently doing transactions of a small nature in virtually every year.
So we would expect that there'll be a lot of that.
With the coming Solvency II capital regime in Europe there's a little bit more activity on that front perhaps than last year and that's increasing.
So we really don't know what we're going to do this year but we're pretty optimistic given where things are today.
That's all we can say about it because we really don't know anymore.
That is very helpful.
Thanks.
Switching gears I believe you said that the consolidated premium growth was 6% backing out the impact of FX and the retrocession deal.
Is that a reasonable estimate for kind of the current overall organic premium growth rate or are there other adjustments we should be thinking about? And any sense in general about how organic premium growth kind of backing out the FX drag should trend from here? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> This is Jack.
It is a pretty good run rate in terms of how we view as we entered the year kind of our expectations in terms of top-line growth rate.
I'll remind you that can be significantly influenced by any kind of block deals that come our way.
But I think that's – all things equal that's a reasonable run rate in terms of expectations.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to today's speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Well thanks to everyone who joined us today.
To the extent any other questions come up feel free to give us a call.
And with that we'll end the first quarter earnings release conference call.
Thanks again.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand by.
We are about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America's Second Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to everyone joining us for RGA's second quarter 2015 conference call.
With me this morning in St.
Louis is Greig Woodring our Chief Executive Officer.
Greig and I will discuss the second quarter results after a quick reminder of our forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on our pre-tax and after-tax basis for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in the press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
I will provide some general overview comments on the quarter.
Jack will go over the financial results.
And then we will open it up for Q&amp;A.
Our second quarter operating EPS were $1.94 compared to $2.23 a year ago and the comparison is difficult in several respects.
We note that the year ago period included $0.11 per share benefit from the reinstatement and conversion of our reinsurance treaty in Japan.
The current quarter included a higher than expected effective tax rate the excess totaling $0.14 per share.
Additionally weaker foreign currencies had an adverse effect of about $0.08 per share.
The results this quarter were slightly below our expectations but generally reflect the broader trends that have been driving our performance more recently as their top-line growth in new business volumes have been very good.
Our capital management actions have been balanced and effective and our operating global model and strategy have delivered better diversity profits by geography and product line.
Plus while we have experienced some variability in our underwriting results by segment or product on a quarterly basis our overall momentum in earnings power continues to move upward over time.
In this quarter we continue to get very strong results from most of our international businesses in spite of the obvious currency headwinds while our Global Financial Solutions businesses maintain strong momentum with notable influences to the U.S.
and EMEA segments.
Results in EMEA this quarter were helped by more recent transactions as well as some favorable experience on our existing longevity treaties.
We remain encouraged by the outlook in that region.
Asia excluding Australia also continued to have favorable underwriting results and solid new business production across the region.
To strengthen those areas offset some continued volatility within our Traditional North American business.
Our U.S.
mortality business did have another subpar result as there was some extension of the trend of higher seasonal claims flow into April.
Got back and verified that the flu and respiratory issues did have an above average adverse effect on the first quarter.
We're now getting cause of death results in and the initial evidence is that this flowed into April.
There has been a resulting excess of claims in older ages particularly in some recent vintages.
We saw some improvement in May and June in fact May and June were pretty much on plan taken together but not enough to overcome the weakness in April.
Positively we did see good mortality results on individual life in Canada.
In Australia we experienced unfavorable claims.
We've a range of businesses in Australia both group and individual and there's variability from quarter-to-quarter.
We saw negative deviation in several lines in this quarter whereas we saw positive deviation in the first quarter.
Though the negative experience deviation in the second quarter was not driven by any single line and doesn't reflect any changes to the reserve assumptions or the reserves that we set up a year ago.
Year to date we're slightly ahead of where we would've expected to be at this point in earnings but there has obviously been more volatility than typical.
We can certainly have variability from quarter to quarter in Australia.
It's a fairly large operation for us.
On the capital management front we were less aggressive this quarter in terms of share repurchases after a considerable amount of buyback activity in the first quarter.
And we want to position ourselves appropriately given a continuing active pipeline of discussions concerning block acquisitions and other potential transactions.
We announced one larger longevity transaction and we executed some smaller under-the-radar transactions as well during the quarter.
We continue to work on a range of potential transactions in the pipeline.
We increased our dividend 12%.
And our increased share repurchase authorization gives us greater flexibility as we move forward.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic about the range of opportunities before us and our ability to take advantage of these.
Although we are slightly behind last year's numbers through six months the situation is not unusual given the nature of our business.
We're not far from where we would've expected to be in our third quarter and fourth quarter are typically stronger periods.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack to discuss our financial and our segment results.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks Greig.
We reported operating income of $130 million this quarter or $1.94 per diluted share.
As Greig mentioned the second quarter results were below last year's quarter and slightly below our expectations for various reasons.
But when you consider some of the various non-operating or unusual items it's probably fair to say that the results were comparable with a year ago.
Reported net premiums totaled $2.1 billion down 2.5% quarter over quarter.
When culling the effects of the fourth quarter retrocession agreement and foreign currency headwinds premiums were up 8%.
Turning to our investment results.
Our average investment portfolio yield excluding the spread businesses was 4.88% this period roughly 10 basis points higher than the second quarter last year and the first quarter of 2015.
Our new money yield is a little less than 4%.
And we benefited somewhat from some investment prepayments this quarter.
We continue to move forward with our capital management strategy with an appropriate balance of deploying and returning excess capital.
We're pleased to announce a 12% increase in our dividend level as well as an increase in the share repurchase program authorization noting that we have now – now have approximately $200 million of repurchase capacity with the increase in that authorization.
We slowed the pace of buybacks in the second quarter to $24 million following the somewhat accelerated pace in the first quarter.
We deployed some capital into a couple of new transactions during the quarter.
And our current excess capital position exceeds $750 million.
The block transaction pipeline remains healthy and we will continue to consider optimal deployment strategy.
Now turning to our segment results.
The U.S.
and Latin America Traditional sub-segment reported pre-tax operating income of $79 million below our expectations and reflecting adverse mortality claims of about $22 million and unfavorable experience in our group reinsurance business of about $8 million both on a pre-tax base.
Premiums were off 2% quarter-over-quarter due primarily to the effect of the retrocession transaction in the fourth quarter of last year.
Ignoring that transactions premiums would have been up 8%.
Our Asset-Intensive business in the U.S.
reported pre-tax operating income of $56 million up 28% over last year's $44 million level.
Stronger results this period reflect a favorable spread performance and contributions from the recently acquired Aurora National business.
A reasonable expected run rate for that business is now around $50 million per quarter.
Our Financial Reinsurance line reported pre-tax operating income of nearly $15 million or an 8% increase over last year's result.
In our Canadian Traditional business we were pleased with the improvement in the individual mortality claims this quarter as large claims are back within a more normal range.
The favorable mortality experience was somewhat offset by an adverse foreign currency effect of $3 million and some minor negative swings in various ancillary lines.
The net result was about $24 million in pre-tax operating earnings which was below last year's $28 million level.
Premiums totaled $225 million and increased 2% quarter-over-quarter in local currency and translated U.S.
dollars premiums were up 9%.
The Non-Traditional business in Canada which includes longevity and fee-based transactions reported a modest quarter-over-quarter increase in pre-tax operating income to $3 million.
Europe Middle-East and Africa's Traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $9 million reflecting overall claims experience that was in line with our expectation.
The prior year results were quite strong and totaled $23 million with very favorable claims experience.
EMEA Traditional premiums increased 9% in local currencies while translated currencies were 4% lower this quarter and totaled $276 million.
The net adverse foreign currency effect on reported premiums was $35 million this period.
Non-Traditional EMEA business which includes asset-intensive longevity and fee-based transactions posted 47% increase in pre-tax operating income to $32 million reflecting the cumulative effect of new and existing transactions as well as favorable experience in the longevity book of business.
Momentum continues to be strong in this sub-segment.
Turning to Asia Pacific results in the Traditional line were mixed this quarter with very good operating performance in our Asia markets including Hong Kong Japan and Korea offset by the previously noted weakness in Australia.
Pre-tax operating income totaled $4 million compared to $26 million a year ago noting that the year ago period included an $11 million benefit from the conversion and reinstatement of an existing treaty in Japan.
Australian operations suffered primarily from adverse morbidity claims experienced this quarter raising a fair amount of unusually strong results posted in the first quarter of 2015.
Year-to-date the results in Australia are in-line or somewhat above our expectations only modestly above those expectations.
And as we said last quarter we continue to expect to see some degree of volatility from quarter-to-quarter going forward.
Asia Pacific Traditional premiums increased 13% in local currencies quarter-over-quarter but were flat in translated U.S.
dollars at $390 million.
The relatively stronger U.S.
dollar resulted in a $51 million net reduction in reported premiums.
Our Non-Traditional Asia Pacific business includes asset-intensive fee-based and various other transactions and reported a small pre-tax operating gain this period.
Our Corporate segment reported pre-tax operating losses of $10 million this quarter versus $14 million a year ago and was in line with a typical quarter where we have an expectation of roughly a $10 million loss.
So to put the first six months into perspective when comparing to the first six months of 2014 we have given up about $0.20 per share due to the relatively stronger U.S.
dollar and another $0.15 per share associated with the relatively higher effective tax rate.
We are hopeful that the active financing exception legislation will be extended later this year at which time we will reduce our tax provision accordingly.
And our business is such that we typically generate stronger results in the second half of the year so we are reasonably comfortable with where we stand today in terms of our earnings level.
We thank you and appreciate your support and interest in RGA.
And with that we'll open the call for questions.
We'll go first to Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Good morning guys.
A quick question about the Australia so you mentioned that this kind of the adverse experience were kind of across multiple lines maybe can you give us a little bit color in terms of what specific lines were underperformed in the quarter? And then also kind of talk about the overall kind of TPD experiences in terms of – relative to your reserve assumptions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Humphrey I'll take the first part and I'll let Jack talk about the reserves.
Experience in the first quarter if you remember we talked about that as being favorable and that we viewed it as something that we were going to get back during the course of the year because it was just too favorable and that's sure enough was the case.
And the experience comes about because of individual life individual disability group both disability and TPD and group life all up or down at any given time.
There is more disability effect than anything that tends to be the more volatilized both on the individual and the group side and that was the case both in the first quarter and the second quarter.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> I think the question related to reserve levels.
You recall we setup up a significant additional reserve in the second quarter of 2013.
We're comfortable with the balance sheet and the reserve levels in the Australian operation currently.
As Greig indicated some of the noise actually in the first quarter and second quarter of this year doesn't really relate to the stability of the reserve levels there.
It relates more to the ongoing performance and variability in that performance in various other product lines.
Okay.
So basically given the year-to-date is still kind of slightly positive so you feel comfortable for the rest of the year kind of in line with your slightly profitable – profitable expectation for 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we are.
And unfortunately we've experienced positive volatility in the first quarters and negative volatility in the second quarters a lot in the last say four years or five years in that marketplace.
A lot of it has to do with reporting and has to do with other things that reflect the seasonality of the business there.
This happened to be somewhat extreme this year.
We don't expect volatility experience to be anything like it's been in the first two quarters and expect it to go back to a little bit more subdued volatility profile.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then in terms of your increased share buyback authorization based on your prepared remarks you talked about kind of maintaining some flexibility for potential block acquisitions or other transactions.
So should we think about in terms of the pace of the buyback you're probably still going to be a little bit on the lighter side for third quarter and then if there's no transactions then you'll pick up in the fourth quarter? Or how should we think about just with that new announcement today? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Humphrey I think the way you – this is Jack.
I think the way you've expressed it is fair.
It's very unlikely we would be as aggressive for instance as we were in the first quarter of this year in terms of buybacks.
So yeah I would say that we'll try to pick our spot.
We don't expect to be particularly aggressive.
We always want to maintain capacity to be able to take advantage of opportunities to deploy into block or M&amp;A opportunities.
So I think the way you expressed it is fair.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Dan Bergman with UBS.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess first I was curious if you could give some thoughts around how the Aurora acquisition performed relative to your expectations? And additionally how we should think about how those earnings are going to be split between your segments going forward? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Jack.
The Aurora transaction performed very well for us pretty much ahead of our expectation maybe a slightly higher and the lion share of those earnings will be reflected in the U.S.
Asset-Intensive business.
They were in this quarter and won't be going forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There's some mortality but more of it is asset-intensive.
Great.
Thanks.
And then may be just switching gears a little bit I thought you signed a number of longevity reinsurance deals in EMEA in the quarter.
I just wonder if you can give us some thoughts on what drove that trend or if it was just kind of deal specific? And in terms of going forward do you expect that Europe longevity reinsurance markets remain active? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We certainly expect the longevity globally to remain active and increasingly so.
These transactions very often take a long time to germinate and to reach fruition.
And so it's really difficult to predict what quarter we're going to transact in.
But yeah we have been very successful in the first part of this year.
And in fact in the last several years in that line of business and experience has been – expectations are better so far.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
I guess based on your comments it sounds like the elevated mortality claims in the U.S.
you think were a carryover from the harsh winter.
However I think if we look over the past couple of years it seems like U.S.
mortality has generally been a little bit worse than expectations.
So are there other factors that you're seeing that are affecting the performance of the block? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not really.
The first quarters have been high and they typically reflect some amount of flu deaths and respiratory deaths.
As mentioned as we have gotten some cause of death information we saw an elevation of our respiratory deaths of from about 18% to 20% or so something like that.
And it looks like April is going to be about the same place although those returns aren't all yet in.
And if you remember we've had very good fourth quarter mortality in the last couple years.
In fact I would say in 2013 our U.S.
mortality overall for the year was pretty good and last year was just a little bit bad.
We had a couple bad quarters.
And the fourth quarter did not make up for the poor experience totally.
But that's the nature of mortality business.
It can go either way and it does.
And so we're looking forward to – after some negative fluctuations hopefully we're due for some positive fluctuations coming up here in the latter part of this year.
But we don't really know that.
We will be watching it very carefully for the rest of the year.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Erik this is Jack.
The only point I would add is we have seen some degree of elevated claims experience associated with advanced age cases over the last several quarters.
So we continue to pry into that and analyze that to see if there's any additional information that we can glean.
But that would be the only additional color I would add.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
So it's not something where you're seeing like the way you had identified the older – like the 1999 through 2004 block or something like that where there's a specific vintage of policies where there's a little bit elevated experience.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> No.
That – the deaths come from different places and it bounces around a little bit.
It's hard to read one quarter.
That particular generation as you know has been problematic for us for some time.
It actually hasn't been that bad this year compared to other generations of our business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And then if I can just ask one follow up on the longevity business in EMEA is how much competition is there for that business now? And have the market dynamics changed at all due to the changes that you've seen in the annuity market in the UK? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
There's less of the business available in the UK.
There is a plenty of competition but I would say that the supply of business available still exceeds the demand from reinsurers or the risk takers for that business to the point where we can find places where we can transact at our pricing effectively and have done so.
We are looking at opportunities in other markets as well as the UK which is still the largest longevity market in the world.
But we are looking at other markets and we expect that those markets will grow in terms of demand as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you and good morning.
I just want to follow-up on Erik's question around U.S.
mortality.
I think Greig and Jack you both mentioned older age mortality in recent vintages.
But I think some investors are concerned that maybe a by-product of investor-owned life insurance and kind of high face value older age policies that the primary carriers were writing.
Do you have a read on whether there are any similar characteristics around the old age claims you've been getting? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So always difficult to do this analysis with that perspective but older age or older attained age mortality is very consistent with the flu epidemic.
In fact if you look at when we talk about some of the newer vintages did newer issue years did actually have some higher experience this quarter than others.
That's not always been the case.
It was particularly in this quarter.
And so it is something that has gripped our attention.
Most of what we're talking about though comes after the time of the real STOLI business in the U.S.
So this is more recent than that during the heart of that era.
Inc.</span></strong> And if you can remind us...
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> And Sean...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah sorry.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well I was just going to – this is Jack I was just going to comment it's very difficult for us to tell whether the reason for the issuance of policy and whether there is – there are investors involved other than the policyholders.
So it's – when you have large policies issued at advanced ages that could be issued for a variety of reasons so it's very difficult for us to do any sort of analysis that gets I think what is the heart of your question is in terms of whether investor-owned sort of policies and related mortality is driving some of these results.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And I have one follow-up I would like to take it in different direction.
We saw another acquisition from a Japanese carrier last night.
Under the Abe government corporate Japan is being pushed to increase its ROE.
I was wondering if there is any view that you have towards the use of reinsurance among the Japanese primaries or if they plan on continuing reinsurance agreements as they make foreign acquisitions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We do believe they will continue to use reinsurance and utilize at actually perhaps increasing rates.
Our business in Japan has been on a nice upward trajectory.
We see companies in Japan more open to reinsurance and we are benefiting from that.
So we're in on a very nice growth track in Japan and the experience has been wonderful.
As you say – you're absolutely right that there is a lot of talk about the Japanese – among the Japanese companies about increasing their ROEs at above – getting into a different level of performance and that's something that reinsurance can aid in and that's part of the reason driving some of the growth we have in the Japanese market.
Things do tend to move fairly slowly in Japan.
A lot of what's going on in Japan as well Sean is the fact that their home market is not growing very much – it's not growing at all and these are fairly large companies and looking to find somewhere to deploy their capital.
And so they are on an acquisition trail in recent years.
So I wouldn't be surprised if that continues a bit.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
I had a few questions.
First on the asset-intensive business.
You had a pretty strong quarter in 2Q.
So just wondering how much of the upside was driven by high alternative investment income versus maybe contribution from some of the recent transactions and how do you think about the earnings power of that business? And then secondly maybe just talk about your decision-making – what went into your decision to raise the dividend – you raised it by a greater amount than you raised it last year and how do you think about long-term increases in the dividend rate should it be closer to what it was in 2015 or last year why did you raise it more? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Jimmy this is Jack.
Let me respond to those questions.
In terms of broadly speaking of variable investment income we probably benefited by close to $10 million for the quarter above and beyond what would be an expected rate so it's all...
Pre-tax that's pre-tax? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's pre-tax number that's right.
Yeah.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> And that's not unusual because you're going to have significant investments for commercial mortgage loans that prepay.
But that's roughly the size.
In terms of the earnings power for the U.S.
asset-intensive business we project about a $50 million run rate right now and it will be a little bit higher or lower every quarter but that's a pretty good baseline.
In terms of the dividend we tried to peg a double-digit increase.
We think that should be attractive to investors.
So we ended up at 12%.
We'd like to think if we continue to generate capital in a manner in which we've experienced last several years that we hope we can continue a rate of increase every year.
We certainly will consider it every year.
There is no – in our case they will be able to meet double-digit increases every year but we'd like to be able to strongly consider that year after year.
So that is what kind of played into the decision to move it up via a 12% increase.
And then last.
Yeah...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sorry Jo (sic) [Jimmy] (31:20) I was just going to point out this is five-years in a row of double-digit increases.
So as Jack said that did factor into our decision making.
Okay.
And then lastly on share buybacks you mentioned you might be a little later in the third quarter depending on deal activity and maybe little faster in the fourth quarter.
But assuming there aren't any major deals do you expect to complete the program this year or would you carry some of it over to next year as well? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Jimmy it's hard to say.
When you try to compare buybacks against the backdrop of other opportunities to deploy into the business it's always hard to make that call because even if we don't close any significant deals this year there is always some degree of discussion and negotiation underway.
And we always want to maintain some degree of capital to be able to take advantage of some of those opportunities.
So I wouldn't say it's a high probability that we will use the entire additional authorization but it does give us flexibility and I think that's about all I can say on the subject.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
First one was just back to EMEA Non-Traditional earnings we are very strong in the quarter.
Can you help us to think about what the run rate expectation is in that business going forward? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> First of all you're right.
The Non-Traditional has been an area of opportunity for us in EMEA because of Solvency II because of capital and realignment concerns among the EMEA companies.
And so we've been there with solutions for those companies and helping out in the marketplace.
It's always difficult to get.
First of all you can't predict when and how much in the way of new transactions are going to occur on this.
This is much like an acquisition pipeline.
It is unpredictable and in both size and timing.
But as you put a block of business on it that generates a stream of income for the future sometimes that future might be short term say 3 to 5 years and sometimes it might be longer term 5 to 10 years.
But the run rate now is building slowly.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the – I guess the block acquisition pipeline.
At least from the public reports it seems like there is a lot of activity going on right now.
Do you feel like the activity kind of behind the scenes has picked up this year? And are you relatively optimistic that you'll get some transactions done over the next six months or so? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we're always optimistic; we're working on a lot of things.
I don't know that – the acquisition activity is certainly not less than the last couple years.
I don't know that it's orders of magnitude more but it's keeping us very busy.
These acquisitions very often take a long time too.
So announced? Yeah we would be optimistic we could announce something this year.
We don't know that for a fact.
And it could well be that we lose out on several of the ones that we have our eyes on.
On the other hand closing transactions this year is – time is running out for closing anything large.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just one last one kind of along the lines of Sean's question.
We've seen Non-Traditional capital from private equity and pension funds come into the U.S.
life market over the last few years.
And now you've had multiple Japanese companies buy U.S.
companies.
Just curious Greig how do you view this overall impact in the U.S.
life insurance industry as we go forward maybe if at all? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the Non-Traditional players have taken the bulk of the asset-intensive transactions.
We've been I think fortunate and skilled at finding transactions that we could execute on and that have worked out very well for us.
But we by no means have cornered the market here.
We are watching others take more transactions than we take.
And a lot of that has to do with their structure or their investment philosophy and things like that.
So we've managed to survive and even thrive in that environment.
In terms of Japanese buying or others buying U.S.
companies I don't know that that has affected us very much because we don't really have too many opportunities to buy or a desire to buy and operate any direct writing companies.
We are more in the business on the acquisition side of buying closed blocks.
Or if we buy a company it's to shut it down not to – a company that's going to be shutdown not to operate anything.
We are first and foremost in the reinsurance business.
And our clients are direct writers and we want to keep those lines in the U.S.
very bright and clear.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> I was thinking more in terms of Japanese companies owning U.S.
companies and running them with a lower return hurdle given lower cost of capital in Japan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well if they do that first of all I will be a little bit surprised.
But if they do that then there are still ways we can help them improve their ROEs improve their business development.
And we have very good relationships with the Japanese.
And we'd like to think that we have a good dialogue with them at all times.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
We'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Back to the question of Japan actually earlier question.
Greig you're talking about the pipeline being good but I did note in the quarter Asia-Pacific assumed new production was down a lot year-over-year down and obviously it has something to do with yen as well I would imagine in currency.
But also down significantly from the March quarter.
I know that's a sloppy number but is there any take away from that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think we think of Asia being a growth engine for us.
And I don't off the top of my head here have the actual growth rate in Asia directly.
But we've seen good growth and especially good growth in the bottom line overall that business has been chugging along.
And we've been producing a substantial contribution to RGA and it's growing at a nice clip and the bigger it gets the more noticeable it gets.
We have survived a first two quarters of pretty poor U.S.
mortality especially the first quarter first four months were not good at all.
And we are a little bit behind where we would like to be but we're expecting that by the end of the year we're going to be exactly where we originally set out to be that.
We see a lot of positives and a lot of trends that look positive in our results so far through the first six months in spite of the fact that it isn't overall where we wanted to be.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then some number of questions for Jack.
Jack assuming the AFEs in past in the third quarter what kind of tax rate should we be thinking about? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> You said assuming that it is not past in the third quarter? Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Let's assume that it goes down to the wire like it always seems to do in the fourth quarter.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah Steven that's a very difficult question to answer because the AFE calculation involves changes in regulatory reserve levels which can be affected in some of our international operations by the prevailing investment rate and that sort of thing.
So it's – I really – I'm reluctant to kind of go out on a limb and guess what the impact would be that – AFE impact to-date this year has costs us about maybe this is a good example.
It costs us about $0.20 per share.
And last year at this point it had cost us about $0.05 per share.
So that gives you a feel for just the relative volatility of various bases of business around the world can have a reasonably dramatic effect on AFE.
Now thankfully we – all indications are that the extension will be passed and we'll be able to reverse that that $0.20 per share that I indicated earlier.
But in terms of what it does to the investment I'm sorry the effective tax rate it's very hard to predict.
Inc.</span></strong> Is the indication Jack that it will reverse in this three months period? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well that's where I have been – I have been told there is a fair probability that the legislation could be passed in the third quarter.
Now I believe it when I see it but I think there is an even stronger probability that it will be passed in either the third quarter or the fourth quarter of this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Great.
And then couple of more Aurora could you remind us how much that added to reserves in asset intensive? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> I think the – I'm going from memory maybe $200 million or so.
Inc.</span></strong> $200 million okay.
And...
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> I don't have it in front of me Steven my apologies.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> But I'll see if I can rustle that up pretty quickly here though as we're on the line.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then last one maybe you said this and I missed it but did you put a number on the adverse mortality effect in the U.S.in Trad for the quarter? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It was over $20 million just a little over $20 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> And Steven let me – I've got my hands on a little better information I was off on the Aurora – that's probably close to $2 billion in terms of impact on asset levels and reserves.
Inc.</span></strong> $2 billion okay.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> $2 billion U.S.
that's right.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thank you.
And we have no other questions at this time.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Well if there're no other questions we will end the second quarter earnings release conference call.
Thanks to everybody who participated.
And to the extent any other questions come up feel free to give us a call here in St.
Louis.
With that we'll end the call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Third Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce the President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Please go ahead Mr.
Lay.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning to everyone and welcome to RGA's third quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me in St.
Louis this morning is Greig Woodring our Chief Executive Officer.
Greig and I will discuss the third quarter results after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared remarks we will be happy to take to your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential of RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that the actual results could differ materially from the expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results is included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on a pre-tax and after-tax basis for operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underlying trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in the press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greig for his comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
I will provide some general overview comments on the quarter and Jack will go over the financial results then finally we will open it up for Q&amp;A.
Let me start by saying that we had a disappointing third quarter due to three issues in particular higher taxes the strengthening U.S.
dollar and higher claims in the U.S.
I'll expand on those in a moment.
Before I do let's put the first three quarters of the year into some perspective for you.
If foreign currency effects and the impact of any tax rate anomalies associated with the Active Financing Exception were culled out of the results year-to-date operating EPS were slightly ahead of 2014.
2014 turned out to be a pretty strong year.
Back to the third quarter our operating EPS were $1.90 compared to $2.31 a year ago.
Like the second quarter our third quarter results included a higher than expected effective tax rate that reduced earnings by $0.15 per share.
Additionally foreign currencies weakened further and had an adverse effect of about $0.15 per share.
Our International segments produced solid results GFS continued its strong momentum across all geographies and our Canadian operation had a very good quarter on further improvement in mortality experience.
Despite the strength in those areas the overall results this quarter were below our expectations due to the high level of claims in our U.S.
individual mortality business.
For the U.S.
mortality business it was disappointing to have another weak quarter especially in a period when we tend to expect some seasonal recovery where experience was driven almost entirely by large claims with the total amount of those large claims also up due to a few maximum loss claims in the quarter.
Overall frequency of claims was actually better than expected.
The large claims were mostly older issue-age policies which are those written on individuals over the age of 70 at the time of issuance.
These policies have increasingly been a problem for us and are behind much of the higher claims flow we've seen in the recent past including within the business written in what we have characterized as the highly competitive underperforming era in the roughly 1999 to 2004 time period.
The experience on large case older age business was particularly onerous this quarter.
Through the first nine months the U.S.
individual mortality underwriting experience was about $140 million worse than expected.
We believe most of that adverse experience was the result of unusual volatility.
We'd expect it to level out over time.
It's not unusual to see some level of volatility especially when considering that older issue-age policies carry large face amounts which can tend to amplify the volatility in certain periods.
There's enough evidence to suggest that older issue-age experience has been worse than expected even beyond the effects of normal volatility.
If we look over a several-year period the extra mortality concentrates in around 5% of our premium base issue-ages of 70-plus issued in 1999 to 2004.
We've now come to expect additional older issue-age claims of approximately $60 million annually for the next several years before eventually trending down.
While this will modestly reduce margins and returns for the overall U.S.
individual mortality business we consider this to be a manageable issue given the relative size of this block and its declining impact relative to RGA in total over time.
Looking forward we maintain a balanced and optimistic view of our overall business when considering the ongoing strength in many areas of our business globally a generally favorable environment and continued strong demand for our client-based solutions.
Add to this the growing effect of in-force transactions and other accretive capital management efforts and we remain encouraged about our ability to deliver favorable financial results and attractive returns.
With that let me turn it back over to Jack to discuss financial and segment results.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks Greig.
We reported operating income of $127 million this quarter or $1.90 per diluted share.
As Greig mentioned the third quarter results were hampered by the effective tax rate and foreign currencies.
Reported net premiums totaled $2.1 billion down 4% quarter-over-quarter.
When removing the effects of last year's fourth quarter retrocession agreement and the foreign currency headwinds the premiums would have increased about 8%.
Our investment portfolio continues to grow while feeling the effects of the ongoing low interest rate environment.
Our average portfolio yield excluding spread businesses was 4.66% this quarter about 14 basis points lower than the third quarter of last year.
I'll remind you that last year's third quarter yield was boosted by a significant amount of commercial mortgage loan prepayments.
Our current new money yield is slightly over 4%.
On a capital management front our balanced strategy continues to play out well as we continue to deploy excess capital into block transactions and return capital via dividends and buybacks.
We repurchased about $71 million of shares during the quarter and now we have approximately $126 million in repurchase capacity under the current authorization.
Our current excess capital position is approximately $700 million.
In the quarter we announced several in-force block transactions.
The pipeline and outlook remain healthy and we will continue to consider optimal deployment strategies for our excess capital.
Now turning to the segment results the U.S.
and Latin American Traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $55 million a disappointing quarter reflecting the adverse individual mortality experience that Greig described earlier.
Premium growth was strong but due to the effect of the retrocession transaction in the fourth quarter last year premiums were off 2%.
Ignoring that transaction premiums would have been up 8% quarter-over-quarter.
Our Asset-Intensive business in the U.S.
continued its strong performance with pre-tax operating income of $55 million this quarter reflecting favorable spread performance on existing annuity reinsurance and contributions from newer business as well.
Last year's third quarter results were also strong and included over $8 million in prepayment fees with pre-tax operating income totaling $58 million.
Our Financial Reinsurance line reported pre-tax operating income of $12 million this period versus nearly $14 million last year.
This fee-based business continues to perform well.
Our Canadian Traditional segment reported $38 million in pre-tax operating income this quarter up 52% over last year's quarter.
And we are pleased to report two consecutive quarters with better than expected individual mortality claims experience in that segment.
Premiums totaled $200 million and were flat quarter-over-quarter in local currency and translated in U.S.
dollars premiums were off 17% with over $40 million of adverse currency fluctuation.
Non-Traditional business in Canada which includes longevity and fee-based transactions reported pre-tax operating income of $3 million this period versus $1 million a year ago.
Switching to Europe Middle East and Africa where our Traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $16 million a solid result although down from a very strong $20 million last year.
Overall favorable claims experience contributed to the strong operating result in both of those periods.
The EMEA Traditional premiums increased 5% in local currencies while translated currencies were 5% lower this quarter and totaled $276 million.
The net adverse foreign currency effect on reported premiums was $30 million this period.
Non-Traditional EMEA business which includes asset-intensive longevity and fee-based transactions reported another strong quarter with pre-tax operating income of $29 million a 22% increase over last year's third quarter.
Recent strength in the segment reflects favorable experience from existing longevity and asset-intensive business as well as the positive effect of recent transactions.
Turning to Asia Pacific pre-tax operating income totaled $13 million in the Traditional segment with good claims experience in most markets partially offset by a mild loss in Australia.
The results in Australia were considerably improved versus the second quarter but there is variability in this business by product and by quarter.
This quarter's results were adversely affected by higher disability claims.
We continue to expect some degree of quarterly volatility in Australia going forward.
Asia Pacific Traditional premiums increased 19% in local currencies quarter-over-quarter.
The relatively stronger U.S.
dollar resulted in a $69 million net reduction in translated premiums which was 2% and totaled $400 million.
Our Non-Traditional Asia Pacific business includes asset-intensive fee-based and various other transactions and reported over $6 million in pre-tax operating income this period thanks to several new treaties and good experience on existing business.
Our Corporate segment reported pre-tax operating loss of about $20 million this quarter versus $13 million a year ago reflecting a reduction in other income and an increase in general expenses associated with certain executive costs that were historically allocated to Other segments.
Going forward we believe that a fair rate (12:17) on this business is to expect a roughly $10 million to $12 million loss per quarter.
Now for a quick comment on our ongoing expectations.
I suspect there may be a question regarding how we feel about the intermediate-term guidance we typically issue each January for the upcoming year.
As most of you know we don't update or reaffirm that guidance as the year progresses in part because it is intended to convey expected growth rates or return patterns over a several year period and that guidance wouldn't be expected to be continually changing.
We focus on an intermediate term because ours is generally a long-term business with some degree of expected volatility over shorter-term reporting periods.
We certainly expect some volatility in earnings quarter-to-quarter and even year-to-year.
Currently the large case advanced age business in the U.S.
is creating a drag on earnings and returns while at the same time other parts of our business are performing at a relatively high level.
Even with poor results in the U.S.
Traditional sub-segment year-to-date we still have produced a 10% ROE if the tax rate anomaly associated with the AFE is ignored.
So although we have not yet formulated our thoughts on any intermediate-term guidance that may be conveyed next quarter we are still encouraged by the overall vitality and earnings capacity of our portfolio of businesses and certainly don't anticipate any significant change in our outlook as far as our intermediate-term targets are concerned.
Said another way there will always be parts of our business that are outperforming or underperforming our original pricing assumptions.
So for instance our GFS business the International segments and the various block acquisition opportunities are all performing at or above expected levels.
That has always been the case and has certainly been exhibited this year.
However such periods of shifting performance have only subtle effects on our longer-term views of the value of the businesses.
We thank you for your attention and we appreciate your support and interest in RGA and we'll open the call for any questions at this point.
We'll take our first question from Erik Bass with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you.
Can you just walk through how you're arriving at your estimate of roughly $60 million drag on higher claims from the U.S.
Traditional block? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Erik it's a process of looking over an extended period of time four or five years and looking at results.
In particular from quarter to quarter it's always a different part of the business that looks like it's doing worse or better than expected.
You have to get the perspective of a considerable amount of time and data.
Whether or not it comes from lack of mortality improvements at old ages whether it comes from just poor underwriting during that particular era or not the difference between expected claims and actual claims in that particular era is if you spread it out about $60 million a year going forward and that's how we come up with that number.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
And are you seeing any impact outside of that sort of 1999 through 2004 vintage range or does your analysis suggest that the impact is really just concentrated in those years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that's where it's concentrated.
If you go to 2005 the year 2005 you pick up a little bit more.
You go beyond that you get a little bit better.
And so yeah there's other pockets.
And like I said every quarter is different too.
The fact is that you're not going to see this particular block underperform every quarter.
It's going to be up and down.
Some quarters it might even be better than expected.
But you look at it over enough time you begin to draw some conclusions; and I think that's where we're at today.
We're beginning to get enough information on longer-term trend to draw some conclusions.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
The first question just on the $60 million if we think about that as a percentage of your earnings that's about I guess 6% to 7% depending on someone's estimates.
As you look at how the other businesses have performed through this year whether it's Canada or some of the other International businesses and also the deals that you've done how much of an offset to the 6% to 7% do you see from those factors if any? And then related to that how does the $60 million trend over time? Is it – does a part of it go away in the next 3 years to 5 years or is it longer than that just given the age of the block and the pace at which its shrinking? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Jimmy this is Jack.
Let me respond to that.
Yeah we don't look at it as we've got a $60 million hole expected in earnings going forward and there are no offsets.
We've got other parts of the business as I said earlier that are outperforming and you can really see that in the year-to-date numbers so far in 2015.
We're not – even though we've had a one could argue a very poor result in the U.S.
Traditional Mortality market we're not that far off where we expected to be at this point in terms of our operating plan in part because other parts of the business have been outperforming so to speak.
So yeah there are a number of offsets against that which is another reason that we're trying to caution in terms of any guidance that we would issue next year or beyond that we don't necessarily expect any kind of dramatic change in the guidance that we'll be issuing.
Now back to the second part of your question in terms of the trend over time that $60 million is a pretty good estimate for the next several years.
In other words it's not expected to change dramatically for several years.
And then after I think four to five years it'll start trending off subtly.
Hopefully that helps.
Yeah.
And then secondly on capital you've been buying back stock on a regular basis.
You've still got a decent amount of excess capacity based on your assumptions.
So how should we think about the timing of the completion of your – I think there's $126 million remaining on your share buyback authorization.
Do you expect to complete that over the next year or so or is it a longer-term timeframe that you have? Assuming no deals obviously; if you do deals then that uses up capital as well.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah as you state it's always against the backdrop of what other opportunities do we have in terms of block M&amp;A transactions.
So certainly that influences the extent to which we will be in the market buying back our shares.
I think we will look selectively.
As was indicated we did buyback $70 million or so of shares in the third quarter.
We likely will be in the market to some extent in the fourth quarter.
That's not a foregone conclusion but we may take advantage of any opportunities there.
But yeah over time I think you can look back at the last three years or so and get a feel for a pattern of buybacks within – I would characterize it as reasonably aggressive last year and this year.
And then going forward I think buybacks are still a part of our capital management strategy and it remains to be seen as to whether we'll be quite as aggressive but certainly we would expect to continue to be in the market periodically buying back our shares.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Much will of course depend upon how many opportunities we have in terms of large block activity.
And just to clarify on the earnings impact because I think this is one of the first times where you've had a disappointment on earnings and at least you've tried to quantify the impact so a lot of people are going to be trying to guess or get to how much they should be looking at reducing the earnings expectations.
Of the $60 million or so that you mentioned was some of that already in your results in 2014 2013 because we had seen the benefit ratio in the U.S.
Traditional business go up a little bit or is that all incremental from 2014 onwards? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Think of this as yeah there was some in prior years.
Think of this as sort of a run-rate that we have been experiencing and have come to experience.
It doesn't appear every quarter and you might go several quarters without any negatives or positives the other way but this is the...
But that's your expectation versus what you would have expected the block to earn over time in the normal environment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Correct.
Not necessarily $60 million $70 million worse than 2014? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Correct.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Some more follow-ups on the older issue age mortality.
I guess first is it something you're seeing as kind of a widespread industry issue that's pretty spread out among carriers and your clients? Or is it mainly term life or is it also on non-term life business as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's both term and non-term.
When you talk about older issue ages most of those issues are to permanent policies.
In terms of clients if you – again it depends quarter-to-quarter.
You're going to get hit by some clients in some quarters and then they are going to have good experience in other quarters.
We don't see anything that causes us to take dramatic action at the moment but we are flagging some things that on a client basis look like pockets over a long periods of time but too hard to draw conclusions at this stage.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And if we think about this older issue age block I guess specifically from the early 2000 period I mean is that block of business making money or is it in an actual loss position at this point? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Ryan I'll take that.
The older age large case business that we've identified as being problematic is actually at this point returning a modest loss a modest negative margin.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then just lastly you did the retrocession to Pac Life and part of it was this block is there any risk you see in terms of them trying to put that back to you or do you feel comfortable with that at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think their experience so far is pretty much what they expected it to be.
And again we're talking about long-term trends not a particular quarter.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hey Ryan we wouldn't expect any impact associated with that retrocession transaction.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Good morning.
Just want to follow up on the mortality experience.
So you mentioned year-to-date is $140 million is that all for the large claims? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's for the first nine months of the year.
Okay.
And so basically when we think about your $60 million kind of run rate going forward so we should naturally see a little bit better loss ratios compared to what we've been seeing in 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Obviously what we're saying is that's $80 million worse than we would expect the run rate per year to be.
There's clearly some mortality that was consistent with flu that started in December and ran through April of last year that was in some of the same high age buckets but clearly consistent with flu a lot more incidents than severity.
Okay.
And then just to kind of frame the size of that block a little bit better so you mentioned right now for that block is roughly 5% of your premiums.
But we're thinking about in terms of in-force how should we think about that's relative to your current reinsured in-force size? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Humphrey I can take that.
Relatively – if you look at the entire in-force portfolio it's between 1% and 2% of the portfolio if you just look at it with that metric.
Okay.
And then the ones that you already have claims since last April through year-to-date what would that be accounted for of that 1% to 2%? And I guess what I'm trying to get is you mentioned kind of $60 million drag for the next four to five years and then kind of tailed off after that but I guess I just kind of want to get a sense of how much longer kind of even with the tailing off can this be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that will depend on the lapse rates of the business and the sort of diminution of that business which has tended to persist a little bit longer than we would've expected when it was issued too.
But it will fade off after a reasonably short period of time to a small bit of the expected claims.
Okay.
Got it.
Just one I'd sneak one more question.
On the Canadian mortality you mentioned turning better and it was affected by large claims earlier this year but saw a good quarter two consecutive quarters.
Do you see kind of like any issues there? Or is the current turn around would be more on a more sustainable basis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we don't know exactly what the future is going to be Humphrey.
We certainly are happy with the fact that mortality has been very good in Canada especially in this third quarter.
But we don't know what the future is going to hold.
We went from high incidence of large claims to low incidence of large claims.
It looks a lot like the run we had of several good years back 4 or 5 years ago.
But we can never be sure what the future will hold in that business and we could see large claims coming in the fourth quarter for all we know.
Yeah.
I guess what I'm trying to get is do you see any kind of similar trait as the U.S.
block that you're seeing in the Canada block? Or is this just...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
No.
Okay.
All right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No the competitive environment was quite different.
The old age issues were quite different.
We didn't have anywhere near the same phenomenon in Canada.
It has its own dynamics as a market.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from John Nadel of Piper Jaffray.
Hey good morning.
I'm thinking about the $60 million that you're identifying here and I know it's for just a few years but I've always thought of your U.S.
business being really the biggest generator of your free cash flow and the International businesses really being using their own earnings to fund a faster rate of growth.
Maybe I've got that wrong in sort of the way I'm thinking about it but the question is do you should we consider the $60 million – and I assume that's a pre-tax number.
Should we consider that as a dollar-for-dollar impact to your free cash flow? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> John this is Jack.
I'll take that.
Yeah I think you can look at it that way but then you have to also consider what other parts of the business are actually generated generating excess cash flows.
So it kind of gets back to when you take a step back what's the overall earnings capacity annually and therefore our free cash flow generation of the broader enterprise.
And by the way the way you characterized the capital generation attributes of the U.S.
operation in part funding some of the development of the International business is accurate.
That's much the way we look at it as well.
And just real quick the $60 million again just to clarify that is pre-tax correct? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That's a pre-tax number that's right.
Okay.
And then the second question very much unrelated but there was a comment in the release that talked about executive costs being borne by the Corporate segment in the quarter.
Is that a change in allocation of costs that we should expect is going to be an ongoing change? And if that's the case which segments sort of benefit from a reduction in that expense that I assume would be offsetting? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah well that is accurate.
It's kind of hard to indicate exactly which segments.
I mean it's all the segments to some degree.
What underlies that change in allocation methodology is we went through a process to fine tune our unit cost allocation methodology.
And you can think of it as kind of a more a backroom standard cost exercise.
But the result was we end up in our view with a little more accurate cost allocation but it ends up shifting some costs around a little bit and it had a little more dramatic effect in the third quarter than you normally would expect.
I think if you take a step back you can think of the corporate segment not ultimately having a much different sort of earnings or in this case loss pattern than we've had in the past but expect probably annually $40 million to $45 million of loss borne by that Corporate segment.
Okay.
And I assume part of the reason third quarter was elevated is – well I'll let you say it but did the third quarter essentially represent a catch up of the first nine months on this new allocation? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> A little bit but nothing dramatic.
It wasn't a situation where that's three quarters worth of catch up; a little bit not much.
And then just a bigger picture question Greig.
So if the industry is dealing with higher claims levels on – I assume a lot of this was the STOLI business or at least similar to it.
If the industry is dealing with this industry-wide – I guess is it having any impact at all on the competitive environment for new business written today? I assume the answer is no to that but maybe just an overall what (33:17) of the competitive environment.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the answer is no John.
The fact is we had said early on we don't want any STOLI business.
We tried to push it all away but in reality I'm sure we got some that we don't know about.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not sure we can ever separate any STOLI mortality from other mortality because we have no – our supposed exposure is near-zero.
But like I said I'm sure we got some because there was some issued in the industry and we took some.
So it's very hard to tell to what extent that weighs into our results or anybody else's results but it's always difficult.
But just in general your view of the environment today? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
What happened in that competitive era doesn't have any effect on the pricing of business today in our opinion.
The environment is okay.
It's not the best competitive environment and certainly not the worst competitive environment we've seen.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everybody.
I was actually about to ask about the competitive environment.
But I do want to follow up on John's statement with regards to STOLI.
If I remember correctly the issue with STOLI was the lack of lapsation.
Is there any reason to assume that STOLI would cause a problem with mortality? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> To the extent that underwriting was compromised potentially but you could also argue the converse to the extent that those issue-ages were mispriced potentially by the industry at large; but it's always hard to say.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But yeah clearly excess persistency can mean that the true mortality effects will show out in the long run.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Can you talk maybe – going back to the competitive environment maybe in some of the other areas? I'm thinking in particular Asia and the UK.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In terms of mortality? Inc.</span></strong> No no in terms of the competitive environment.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh competitive environment.
Well the UK is always a tough environment.
It's a little bit different competitive dynamic there.
It seems to be again moderating a bit now in our opinion but still very difficult environment.
Asia competition is based not so much on price although that certainly is a large component but a lot of it's based on know-how and innovation and product development and other services that go into generating business out of Asia.
Inc.</span></strong> And then Jack tax rate in the fourth quarter assuming the active finance income exemption is passed by Congress what should we be looking for? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Our expectation really in any quarter is somewhere in the 33% to 34% range.
So that would be our going-in assumption.
Inc.</span></strong> There'd be no catch-up driving that lower? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry.
That's ex any effect of AFE.
So yeah to the extent there is an extender package passed yeah it would drive down that rate considerably would be our expectation because we would reverse the impact that we've accrued over the first three quarters.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm trying to get that number Jack.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well $0.35 a share so I'd say $23 million or so was the additional accrual that we had set up.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you guys.
We'll take our next question from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
In Asia Pac Traditional you called out a modest loss in Australia.
I was wondering if you could quantify what that was.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That was roughly $5 million.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
And do you have any update in how that's trending that business? SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well it's hard to trend.
It's been relatively volatile as you've seen over the last three quarters and...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It was a tough quarter for individual disability in Australia this third quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Then I just have one more question.
Greig you've been the only CEO since RGA has been a public company.
Do you have a change in control clause in your employment agreement? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all I don't have an employment agreement nor do most anybody at RGA have an employment agreement.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Is there...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just no.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Daniel Bergman with UBS.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just following up on the earlier questions I just wanted to see if there's additional guidance you can provide to help us think about the expected go-forward earnings run rate for the U.S.
Traditional business based on your updated expectations.
I mean is it fair could we just take the year-to-date segment earnings add back I think it was $140 million of worse than expected year-to-date mortality and then subtract the run rate implied by the $60 million of higher older issue age claims you now expect? Is that the way to think about the math? Or are there other judgments we need to make for example to account for seasonality or a better way to think about this? Any color would be helpful.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dan.
At a high level what you described is a very reasonable way to look at it.
It's kind of our thinking currently that there's a lot of volatility and some years you're going to have that.
But there's also a component that we expect to be persistent with that $60 million.
So I would agree with the way you laid it out.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There is seasonality.
The first quarter is typically harder.
The winter months are harder mortality months.
Okay.
That's helpful to confirm.
Thank you.
And then maybe switching gears I wanted to see if you gave any update on the block acquisition pipeline and level of activity in the market? And then I guess was the uptick in share buybacks this quarter at all related to any incrementally negative view of the deal pipeline? Or just big picture is there any change in your thinking? Or are you still optimistic about the level of deal flow you're seeing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think we're looking at the deal flow as very good right now.
We don't have I wouldn't say a lot of blockbuster size transactions but we've got a lot of medium and smaller transaction.
We expect good activity in the fourth quarter.
We've got good activity so far this year and we're happy with the way everything has developed.
There seems to be an abundance of opportunities in the world of in-force blocks.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Dan on your question on the buybacks I wouldn't read too much into the – every quarter it's going to be more or less than the prior quarter.
Obviously we started off fairly aggressively early in the year but I wouldn't read the volume of buybacks in the third quarter as any real indication of other deal opportunities.
Okay.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
We'll take a follow-up question from Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thank you guys.
Just wanted to quickly follow up on John's question regarding your capital generation.
So I think you used to talk about your capital generation pretty stable on a year-in year-out basis but how much of that kind of capital generation was supported from the U.S.
side? And on top of that how much the capital is coming from these kind of like a large claims or older blocks? And so with the expectation for that block to be weaker would it substantially affect your kind of capital generation at least in the near term all else equal before you grow other part of your business to compensate that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a shifting mosaic.
The capital generation of that U.S.
mortality block was the biggest driver of capital generation of 1 point and there's a lot of places in the organization now that are generating capital above and beyond the requirements and as one falls off another has taken its place.
I think it's easier to look at the overall capital generation of the organization which has been quite strong over the last several years and believe that it's going to continue that way.
SEVP &amp; Principal Accounting Officer</span></strong> Humphrey this is Jack.
Another way to look at it is that $60 million after taxes call it $40 million or so.
And we have indicated in the past that we expect to generate $300 to $350 million of excess capital in a typical year.
So if you isolate just that underperforming piece of business and its relative impact on capital it's insignificant.
And then by the way there's other parts of the business that are really outperforming.
So another way of saying it is we don't suggest that you look at that as having significant influence on the amount of capital we'll have available.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest and with that we'll end our third quarter conference call.
Thanks again.
Once again that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Reinsurance Group of America Fourth Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to introduce Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Greig Woodring; and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Jack Lay.
Mr.
Lay you may begin.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome everyone to RGA's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me in St.
Louis this morning is Greig Woodring our Chief Executive Officer.
Greig and I will discuss the fourth quarter results after a quick reminder about forward-looking information and non-GAAP financial measures.
Following our prepared remarks we will be happy to take to your questions.
To help you better understand RGA's business we will make certain statements and discuss certain subjects during this call that will contain forward-looking information including among other things investment performance statements relating to projections of revenue or earnings and future financial performance and growth potential for RGA and its subsidiaries.
Keep in mind that actual results could differ materially from expected results.
A list of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results have included in the earnings release we issued yesterday.
In addition during the course of this call we will make comments on pre-tax and after-tax operating income which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations.
We believe this measure better reflects the ongoing profitability and underwriting trends of our business.
Please refer to the tables in the press release and quarterly financial supplement for more information on this measure and reconciliations of operating income to net income for our various business segments.
These documents and additional information may be found on our Investor Relations website at rgare.com.
With that I'll turn it over to Greig for his comments.
Thanks Jack.
Our fourth quarter results were strong and it’s nice to end the year on a high note.
For the quarter operating EPS was $2.84 including $0.36 in tax benefits from the reversal of the active financing exception with full year operating EPS was $8.43 down compared to last year’s very strong result of $9.12 which included some unusual tax related benefits which boosted that result by $0.55 per share but up against the $8.30 that we had discussed last year had some more normalized result.
This was another quarter in which our International segments performed well over all with Asia and Canada having excellent quarters.
Our U.S.
mortality business had another quarter that was not at the part but there was some recovery versus Q3 and we benefited from a more significant contribution from the various in-force transactions that we have completed in the last couple of years.
Fourth quarter reported premiums were up just modestly due to foreign currency headwinds but excluding those effects premium growth was 10% for the quarter.
So our top line growth remains quite healthy.
As I step back and view the full year I want to highlight a few things.
First from a top line standpoint excluding the effect of a larger retrocession agreement executed in the fourth quarter of 2014 original currency premiums were up 8% year-over-year.
We also considered this to be a solid year from an earnings standpoint given the macro headwinds that we faced.
In particular in fact the week point currencies was even more significant than we expected and had a negative effect on operating EPS and ROE up $0.53 per share and 7.7% respectively.
Further we accomplished these results despite the fact that U.S.
Traditional business had an unusually challenging year as we have benefited from the broad diversity of earnings that has come with the successful development of our global operating model overtime.
Particularly important is the fact that both our Asian and EMEA segments have reached have reached the next level of success and are now producing strong consistent results that are adding meaningfully to our total.
These segments have been helped by the growing importance of Global Financial Solutions or GFS to the strategic and financial success of the global effort.
Strong performances by these segments in 2015 along with the nice rebound in earnings from Canada with the key drivers to our results for the year we expect the strong momentum of our International and GFS segments to continue for the foreseeable future give a favorable market environments that are strong position in those market.
As for the U.S.
Traditional business we expect to rebound in results at some point to reflect our view that most of the unfavorable experience was unusual volatility.
We also recognize that the large case older age over issue age business is expected to continue to be somewhat of a drag on these results going forward.
In addition the U.S.
Group business part of the U.S.
Traditional had a disappointing Q4 and year but we also expect to rebound in this business as well given at shorter term nature and ability to reprice annually.
Based upon the nature of that business we expected to show some degree of volatility from year-to-year.
We had another strong year in terms of in-force and other transactions including substantial activity and success in Q4 as we deployed around $250 million in the quarter and $500 million for the year.
Plus on top of a strong 2014 we have been fortunate to execute on a range of opportunities that present themselves something that we expect to be the case in the future given the ongoing regulatory and macro challenges our clients continually face and a result in increasing number of opportunities being presented.
Looking forward we continue to be optimistic about our global positioning of market opportunities and our ability to execute.
Jack will provide some more specific comments on our financial guidance but our underlying business momentum remains strong as we continue to see nice demand for our services and solutions by clients worldwide to navigate a challenging economic and regulatory environment.
We see solid organic growth potential overall as well as abandoned opportunities for transactions.
Our organic growth reflects modest growth in certain mature markets but high growth in other geographies and for some non-mortality products.
Transactional opportunities continue to present themselves in many markets in the wake of major regulatory changes in a challenging economic environment and this will continue with Solvency II in Europe being a prominent driving force.
The life insurance industry on a global basis is going through a lot of change which we expect to continue if not accelerate our business is dynamic and fluid and we have been anticipate and respond well in this environment.
We’ve positioned ourselves quite well for the further by continually developing our management team the team already deep and broad.
On that note we recently name Anna Manning as President and she will become CEO when I formally step down and retire at the end of this year.
Besides being great capable and talented Anna understands and has played an important role in our unique culture and she will sustain this culture in RGA’s momentum going forward.
With that let me turn it back over to Jack to discuss our financial and segment results.
Okay thanks Greig.
I’ll give you a quick synopsis of the fourth quarter financial results and then comment on our intermediate term guidance and add some additional forward-looking thoughts.
We are pleased with the strong fourth quarter with operating income of 188 million or $2.84 per diluted share.
As Greig mentioned the fourth quarter results reflected strong operating results in most markets and a reversal of accruals related to the AFE legislation.
Reported premiums totaled $2.3 billion increasing 5% in translated U.S.
dollar and 10% in original currencies.
The premium growth includes new transaction layered on through our 2015.
Our investment portfolio continues to growth well filling the effects of the ongoing low interest rate environment.
Our average portfolio yield excluding this spread businesses was 4.96% this quarter in line with a year ago quarter.
Both periods were boosted by a variable investment income and prepayments as well as some additional investment income related to the closing of an in-force transaction late in this year’s quarter.
We repurchased about $51 million worth of shares and deployed $250 million into block transactions during the fourth quarter.
For the full year executing of our capital management strategy was well balanced as we repurchased $375 million of shares and deployed a little over $500 in the block transactions.
It’s worth mentioning that we’ve used just over $1.2 billion of excess capital over the past two years for deployment and repurchases.
Our board approved a $400 million share repurchase authorization that replaced the old one.
The current excess capital position is approximately 600 million at this time.
Our transaction teams remain very busy in the pipeline and outlook where deal flow remains healthy.
Now turning to our individual segments the U.S.
and Latin America Traditional segment recorded pre-tax operating income of $79 million versus a strong result of $134 million a year ago.
Current period results were hampered by poor experience in the Group Reinsurance and somewhat higher than expected individual mortality claim.
The Group Reinsurance business was primarily responsible for the quarters of results coming in about $20 million below expectation driven by the Group visibility and managed care components of that business.
The individual mortality business higher average claim sizes on policies under $100 million.
The older issue age large policies that point the previous couple of quarters in 2015 were more in line with our expectations this quarter.
Contributions from recent block transactions help offset some of this adverse experience.
Premium growth was strong in the U.S.
Traditional operating of 12% quarter-over-quarter and totaling $1.4 billion.
Without new block transactions premiums would have been up 6%.
Our asset intensive business in the U.S.
continue to perform at a high level with pre-tax operating income of $48 million this quarter reflecting favorable spread performance on existing annuity reinsurance along with contributions from newer business.
Last year’s fourth quarter results were also very strong and included significant prepayment fees with pre-tax operating income totaling $56 million at that time.
Our Financial Reinsurance line reported pre-tax operating income of $16 million this period versus $13 million last year.
This fee-based business continues to perform well and consistently adds to our bottom line.
Our Canadian Traditional segment reported favorable individual mortality experience for the third consecutive quarter and posted $45 million in pre-tax operating income up from $18.2 million in last year’s fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter claims experience was better than expected.
Premiums totaled $201 million and were down 2% quarter-over-quarter in local currency primarily due to a sharp reduction and lower margin creditor business in the current quarter.
In translated U.S.
dollar premiums were off 16% with over $35 million in adverse currency fluctuation.
Non-Traditional business in Canada which includes longevity and fee-based transactions reported pre-tax operating income of $3 million this period versus $2 million a year ago.
Switching to Europe Middle East and Africa our Traditional business reported pre-tax operating income of $30 million up from $10 million last year.
Overall claims experience was in lined with our expectations with strong performance in Continental Europe offsetting somewhat weaker mortality and morbidity result in the UK.
EMEA Traditional premiums increased 13% in local currencies while translated currencies were up 4% this quarter totaling $300 million.
The net adverse currency effect on reported premiums was $24million this period.
Non-Traditional EMEA business which includes asset-intensive longevity and fee-based transactions reported a solid pre-tax operating income total of $19 million compared to last year’s $24 million a quarter which was unusually strong.
Asset-intensive and longevity transactions continue to contribute solid bottom line results to EMEA’s segment and we continue to evaluate attractive opportunities in this market.
Turning to Asia Pacific Traditional business pre-tax operating income totaled $36 million nearly doubled the prior year quarter reflecting better than expected claims experience in most markets including Australia.
We continue to expect some degree of quarterly volatility in Australia going forward as was the case throughout 2015.
Asia Pacific Traditional premiums increased 11% in local currencies quarter-over-quarter.
The relatively stronger U.S.
dollar resulted in a $43 million net reduction in translated premiums which totaled $389 million and were relatively even with the prior year quarter.
Our Non-Traditional Asia Pacific business includes asset-intensive fee-based and various other transactions and reported over $5 million in the fourth quarter pre-tax operating income down from $7 million a year ago primarily due to the unfavorable experience on a Japanese trading in this year’s results.
Our Corporate segment reported pre-tax operating loss of about $17 million this quarter versus a pre-tax operating income total of $23 million a year ago when this segment reported significant reduction in tax related interest expense.
Going forward we believe a fair rate for the pre-tax operating income or pre-tax operating losses in this segment is about $15 million for quarter.
As you know we’ve historically provided intermediate-term guidance at this time here and I want to give you a perspective on the various issues that might affect our results going forward.
Over the intermediate-term we again expect growth in operating income per share to be in the range of 5% to 8% and operating return on equity to be in the range of 10% to 12%.
The EPS growth target in unchanged versus the previous year - the previous year’s and I’d like to point out that our outlook is right on the term line of what we have reported since we started giving intermediate-term guidance several years ago.
We have reduced the lower end of the ROE target to 10% from an 11%.
This change reflects the fact that we expect to continue to face macro headwinds notably weak foreign currencies and sustained lower interest rates.
The effect of the weak foreign currencies has had a negative impact on operating ROE of above 1.5% on accumulative basis over the last several years so it is natural price to consider rather to increase the range to reflect the reality given the possibilities that this issue may persist on extended period.
However we continue to believe that our EPS range is appropriate and we expect the combination of organic growth the execution of block transactions and efficient capital management to more than offset the macro headwinds and allow us to reach our financial targets.
So going forward as Greg discussed our underlying business momentum remained strong so we expect continued solid organic growth along with a boost in transactional opportunities and further effective capital management.
Our strong excess capital position has allowed us to deploy capital into in-force block and other transactions as well as repurchase share as appropriate.
We will continue to seek a balanced approach to our capital management strategy but it will always be difficult to predict ahead of time the amount and mix of the deployment versus repurchases.
Against this positive backdrop we expected to see continued significant headwinds from low interest rates and weak foreign currencies.
As indicated FX has penalized our results of a material amount and we expect that negative effect to continue at least to some extent.
Interest rates remain or expected to remain low for an extended period of time but the negative effect from rate has recently been offset by accelerated income for bond and mortgage loan prepayment.
So level of prepayments was down somewhat in 2013 compared to 2014 and was still higher than expected so we did not see the full effect of the lower rates.
For 2016 we expect a lower portfolio yield due to lower prepayments and continued lower new money rates.
What thank you for your attention and we appreciate your support and your interest in RGA.
And with that we’ll open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go first to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
So first question is just on the deal pipeline a lot of the deals obviously that you do to the clear smaller but a number of larger deals have come up in the U.S.
market with what’s going on with AIG and MetLife.
And so my question is do you see an opportunity in this and what are your options to raise capital in case you win any of these large deals? And also if you could remind us on what typically would be the return ROEs when you look at deals in the U.S.
or internationally.
Yeah taking the last part first our return hurdles for transactions are similar to what our return hurdles are for organic business 13% sort of the life time return on the business.
In terms of transactions in the U.S.
there are some very large ones I am not sure that we would entertain being a buyer for big large properties but we certainly could team with people and be part of it.
That happens from time to time and we get into discussions on various different things Jimmy.
But you know I think that we set our sights more on the transactions that involve anywhere from say $100 million to $500 million of capital.
If we had to raise capital we demonstrated last year that we can securitize embedded value out of the company and raise significant amounts of capital if we have a need to do so.
And that would assuming market conditions are receptive that would be certainly an avenue we would look at.
And then secondly on Australia you had some quarters as you went through 2015 the last quarter is pretty good but weak quarters prior to that.
What’s your comfort level with the reserve charge you took a couple of years ago as you’ll see an experience immerge over the last two years? Hey Jimmy this is Jack.
You know we still are comfortable with the reserves that we have established.
You’ll recall that was primarily on the Group business.
And it does take over than you’d expect for that business to roll off.
We don’t have any issues.
We think we are probably the reserved at this point.
And then just one more lastly if I could the investment losses seemed elevated this quarter so what were the drivers of that? And then also if you could give us any numbers that on to your energy exposure in the portfolio? Yeah I’ll take that.
Yeah they were a little bit elevated.
I think the last two quarter they were a little bit elevated in terms of impairments compared to our more recent run rate.
You mentioned Energy credits and they were behind the lion share of our impairments.
We impaired about $28 million or so during the fourth quarter most of that was energy related bring some securities that we have year marked for sale that impact we haven’t sold the portion of those already.
So that was behind it.
In terms of our total exposure we’re about 2.1 billion in total energy exposure in the portfolio at year end.
Okay thank you.
We’ll go next to Erik Bass with Citi.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Can you provide some more color on the U.S.
Group results for this quarter and for 2015? And is how big a component of traditional earnings this Group typically and what’s the typical quarterly volatility that you’d expect? Erik I’ll take that.
Our characterizing entire year is we had a negative result.
We are well off our plan.
We ended up with positive earnings but it wasn’t particularly significant.
I think we probably missed our plan by $30 million or so pre-tax for the year.
So that also gives you some indication.
A run rate on earnings for that line is between 30 and 40 million in terms of expectation.
For the year? Yeah for the year I am sorry.
Yeah for the year.
Actually that’s a Group line has four lines business within it.
The problem incented this year around the LTD business which enjoyed a very strong result in 2014.
So it is volatile business and it is a volatile business period.
This was about a server as we would ever expect the LTD business to be.
Got it.
And then maybe switching to Canada you’ve now had several quarter of favorable mortality experience after a tough 2014 is this changed your view at all about the outlook for the block? Yeah we always had a strong view on the outlook for the Canadian block.
I can’t say that we really understand completely it switched on and off very suddenly but it went from a long spring of extremely good results to struggle for period of 18 months or so and it’s turned around sharply and suddenly after that.
Got it.
Erik I guess you can that’s really the nature of that mortality business that you can go through somewhat extended periods where you just have very positive or a negative mortality results.
Okay I guess I thought you’d sort of characterized the end of the last year that you’d felt like some of the weakness could continue and now it’s turned around so you be back to sort of - would you say the block sort of on track with your long term expectations now? Yeah so Erik you’re right we did express some concern at the end of last year because we had unfortunately a fair consistent negative pattern for several quarters.
So we did comment that we were looking very closely at it did had some concern in that like then they did turn around after the first quarter this year.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go next to Michael Kovac with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Just a question on the excess capital position here so you’re sitting at 600 million following a pretty active year down from that 1.2 billion last year.
And I believe in the past you’ve discussed about 300 million of annual free cash flow that you are generating and if they roll for the repurchase announcement in kind of a similar level of deals to what you’ve done this year.
You kind of at that whole excess capital position by the end of 2016.
So my question is do you expect to go into the capital markets for the type of retrocessional transaction or any capital feeing activity that you saw last year and do you see the market as fairly receptive to those type of deals? Yeah I think the answer is yes.
You know I’ll remind you that the last two years really 2014 and 2015 where really relatively high years in terms of capital deployment.
So you know I think your math is right if we were to continue with that level we would hid into the excess capital that we have on the balance sheet at year end.
Now we do have Greig had mentioned we have the opportunity to go through another embedded value securitization that we thought that was the appropriate thing to do.
We also feel we have capacity to issue hybrid securities to some degree.
So there is several levers we could pull if we felt the opportunities were attractive amount that we wanted to raise some level of capital.
Great and then in terms of thinking about asset intensive earnings which exclude this quarter in the U.S.
and the past run rate had been somewhere around 50 million I think.
In terms of both the macro environment from an interest rate in volatile equity market to certainly just start the year do you think that is still sustainable rate in 2016 and forward and sort of thinking if we mark-to-market it today give sort of moves that we’d seen to date what do you think is the outlook for that business? Yeah I think that we’re comfortable that 50 million or so for quarter is a reasonable run rate going forward.
We don’t feel we are overly exposed to the equity market so lot of that is simple spread business you know as PDA back business and that sort of thing.
So you know we wouldn’t back off an expectation of earnings 50 a quarter or so.
And Michael most of that business is done on a bulk basis on a close block basis and so match asset some liabilities we don’t really have to worry so much about what interest rates do after that if we’ve done a good job of matching assets and liabilities.
It makes sense.
And one last numbers question for you so you broke out the 20 million I believe of unfavorable in the Group lays part of the U.S.
Traditional business do you have a similar breakout for the favorable benefit in Canada? My recollection is in Canada the favorable benefit that was around $10 million or so pre-tax.
Thanks.
And we’ll go next to Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody.
First question going back to the U.S.
Group can you give us a sense of I think you said it was pretty significant delta between expectations and results this quarter can you give us a sense in terms of is it a ones in a deviation event is it more or less than that? Yeah I don’t know the answer to that off.
And we continually are repricing that business and it comes up whatever year so it’s - it was probably more than a standard deviation.
But I am not sure exactly how I would quantify that or if we have really done the work to quantify that.
We view that as a situation that picks us itself because it will all be repriced as quick as it can be.
And speaking of that repricing so it seems like it was already performing below expectations are going into the quarter so how much of the book is being repriced for 2016 renewals? Well it will all repriced within a year if there is a problem with it.
As I said 2014 results were sternly positively in terms of delta and in 2015 the results were strongly negative and much strongly negative.
So all of that is a continual work by the Group team in Minneapolis to stand up things and they are doing excellent job of that.
Okay.
And then switching to the other side of U.S.
Traditional the individual mortality so am I correctly understand that the elevated claims there were not from the 1998 to 2004 events each block? Yeah that was probably the best - that was probably the best performing era in this particular quarter it shows the volatility of things.
So things go up and down from quarter to quarter.
Okay.
Can you give us maybe a little more color as to what the pressure points were in individual mortality? It was all the other errors and it was predominantly much across the board.
And predominantly you can think of it is not the large cases that were the big contributors it was small.
And we characterize large cases a million dollar more.
So it’s really claims low for smaller cases that contributed.
Okay and this was not something that you’d seen in previous quarters? No we … We saw it certainly in the first quarter last year what we had what looks to like a lot of cases last year.
Okay.
And then finally one question on capital deployment so clearly very strong deployment into in-force blocks but with the stock price at current levels and excess capital saw 600 million why wouldn’t you consider buying back more share this quarter? Well we may.
As we noted we’ve got a $400 million authorization and the stock has traded you know fairly dramatically but that’s been relative reason of current within a block out period.
So you know we’ll strongly consider all the alternative in terms of whether it makes sense to take out additional share early on versus what’s in the pipeline for potential block transactions.
Alright thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Hey good morning everybody.
First a follow-up Jack on the energy portfolio I think you said you had 2.1 billion in total could you tell us at the end of the year how much of that was below investment grade? Yeah I think about - I think roughly 1.9 billion was investment grade so 200 million or so would have been high yield.
Okay thank you on that.
And then just a couple more could you - you mentioned in the press release that there was some interest income coming on a retroactively basis from a deal how much was that and can you say what deal that was? Well it’s not an announce deal so we wouldn’t want to indicate which client but there was about $30 million.
Steven it’s not particularly unusual where we will develop a block transaction and then have it retroactively effective so we will get two or more quarters of earnings associated with that deal.
And that was a case on this particular deal it was a little different in that all of the lot the way the deal was structured lot of that performance prior to the actually executing the deal came through as investment income.
And you had it - because we didn’t have the investments in portfolio it had kind of effect on our overall investment yield so that’s why we try to break that on and comment on it.
Okay the assets are now in portfolio? That’s right.
Okay.
And then just looking at U.S.
Traditional ordinary flow business as opposed to in-force transactions would you have that number and could you compare it to 4Q ‘14? Are you talking about an in-force number or new business production or? New business production Jack.
I know we’ve got that in the Q that’s going on … Okay got it I’ll find it.
Okay.
Alright thank you.
And we’ll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Thanks.
I have a question about Japan Japan post also known as CompoLife recently received approval to get a reinsurance license I was wondering what the implications of that are for your business in Japan? We don’t think much of any implication at all.
There are a lot of national and startup type reinsurance in various different markets around the world that it’s really not likely that we will see major competition of anything of the sort of Compo normal that detract from our business momentum in Japan which is quite strong.
That even given out unique place in the market there and having …? Yeah they have restrictions they have also restrictions on size of we still taken the types of things they can do and if anything is they might be somebody we can team up with uncertain transactions.
But we don’t see them as - that event as significant in terms of the competitive landscape at this point.
Okay.
And then another question about the investment portfolio your GAAP book value per share has been declining every quarter this year and that’s driven and it looks like large part by the unrealized gain position on the balance sheet shrinking it’s roughly half of what it was in the first quarter.
Is that due to your energy exposure or what’s driving that? No it’s more changes in rates than is the energy exposure because that - energy exposure well the value has changed it’s really not an uptick meaningfully changed the amount of unrealized appreciation in AOCI.
That’s really a more reflection of the macro environment.
Okay but is that - does U.S.
assets and because U.S.
interest rates haven’t fallen that much? It’s really all assets including the large portfolio in Canada.
Okay got it thank you.
We’ll go next to John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Hey good morning.
I have a maybe a house keeping question first and that is you know there is a lot of moving parts in your 2015 EPS but if we think about you know the $8.43 that you are reported is that the way you characterize the baseline as we think about you know 5% to 8% growth outlook on an intermediate term basis Jack? Yeah John I think that’s fair and you are right and we see it over year it’s nature of our business there are lot of moving parts and some moving in different directions.
But yeah I think we don’t feel I need to try to re-characterize and give a more normalize view of the ‘15 run rate so I would agree with you.
Okay.
And then if I think about you know the shorter term you know maybe the one year you know portion of that intermediate term outlook you know would that be wrong if I was thinking about that is perhaps having you know a higher possibility of delivering above the 5% to 8% as opposed to below.
And the reason I would think that way Jack is that you know you deployed probably more than two times what your intermediate term outlook you know what call for you to deploy on an annual basis you have obviously this group weakness in 2015 that should setup for a reasonably easy comparison.
You have a lot of FX headwind that’s already sort of in the baseline.
So I am just trying and obviously your organic growth has been pretty good so is there anything I am missing there? No I don’t think you are it’s only hard to project the next 12 months.
And I think you commented on some of the major kind of the macro headwinds and we worry about the investment yield we worry about FX in terms of providing a headwind.
You are also correct that as we layer on these transactions they have incrementally a positive impact on our earnings expectation going forward.
So any drawback together and obviously we think that the positives are going to outlay the negatives or we wouldn’t be projecting a growth in EPS.
But you know I think it may be putting two final point in terms of where in that range it’s you know what characterizes pretty much on a middle of the range as we enter the year their expectation.
It’s not - will end up we’ll be little more south of that just by the business.
Okay understood thank you very it was helpful.
Thanks.
We’ll go next to Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Good morning.
I just have a question regarding your organic growth in U.S.
Traditional so looking at fourth quarter pretty strong premium growth there even then when you strip out the in-force transactions.
So maybe can you comment on the organic growth in the quarter what are you seeing and then also in terms of the outlook for 2016? I think it’s take that.
Yeah I guess I characterized fourth quarter as a little bit stronger than a run rate you know if you call out the impact of any in-force transactions and that sort of thing.
So yeah I think our expectation would be a run rate throughout 2016 a little bit lighter than we reflected or reported in the fourth quarter 2015.
Is there a reason why the stronger run rate result in the fourth quarter just seemly there are more activities by the primary areas or just seemly it’s just a random? Yeah Humphrey I think it’s really difficult to look a quarter and wash out the noise reporting noise the issue noise and so forth that happens and it’s clear that that business is not growing at real strong rates on the traditional mortality business there is some growth in the Group business and a long term care business is growing a little bit not through new issues this much as just continuing to add on to the level there is no lapses in that business.
And so you see some incremental changes but it’s not the robust growth that we experienced back in the 90s and the early part of the 2000s.
And it’s hard to see that returning in the short term that sort of growth.
So we are expecting that the ability to supplement organic growth with occasional block transactions has been a very very beneficial for us and it’s kept that business vitality to a reasonable level.
Understood so maybe shifting gear to Australia so on a full year basis it appears to be profit above even though there are some volatility throughout 2015 then can you be maybe size the total earnings contribution for - from Australia in 2015 and how should we think about the improvement in 2016? You know Humphrey I’ll take that.
For the entire year pre-tax it was about 20 million in terms of earnings level.
We would not expect that that was actually a little bit higher than our expectation coming into the year that is higher than our plan.
We wouldn’t expect any sort of significant increase in that level.
I think we would be happy within result similar to ‘15 and ‘16.
Our results over the last little while have in Australia have been less several years.
It’s not only been volatile but have shown a lot of seasonality with the fourth quarter and first quarter tending to be good and the second quarter in particularly tending to be bad.
So you are looking at it right off of a very good quarter.
It’s - as Jack said $20 million of lot of that 20 million occurred in the fourth quarter.
So I wouldn’t read too much into projecting our run rate based on what you see it’s the case that from time to time we got to have good quarters and backwards in Australia but we’re hoping to bring that operating backup to performance over the course of time.
Okay thank you.
We’ll go next to Dan Bergman with UBS.
Hi good morning.
First I just wanted to see if you can give any update on the block acquisition pipeline and level of the activity you are seeing in the market.
And specifically looking forward if the reason global market weakness in volatility continues I just wanted to see how you might expect us to impact the outlook potential for future block deal if at all? I’d say the pipeline is okay right now it’s - you know I guess we’ve got in the custom to having a very strong pipeline with a lot of activity given all of the change in disruption in the industry and a lot of re-shifting re-focusing.
And I would say it’s not as strong as it has been at times but still much stronger than it was a number of years ago.
So we expect that things like new capital standards are going to spur significant of transactional opportunity over the next several years and this will just keep coming.
A lot of them will be small and you won’t hear about them in a major way and some of them can be done privately and then others will be large transactions.
And so we’re very happy with the way the transactional business opportunities that looks right now.
Great and then switching to the tiny but I guess in terms of the 250 million of capital you deployed in block M&amp;A in the fourth quarter I think a couple of U.S.
traditional deals have been previously disclosed or announced but I wanted to see if you can give us anymore color on the types of deals that comprise the reminder of the fourth quarter deployment and maybe what geographies there and any additional color would be helpful? Thanks.
Yeah this is Jack.
For that 250 was the volume transaction that we had previously announced so that deployed round numbers about 100 million of capital.
We also did a large payout annuity relative large payout annuity transaction in the UK that deployed a little over 100 million of capital and that’s not announced since over that comfortable indication to the counterparties order.
But between the two of those that’s the lion share of the deployment in the fourth quarter.
Alright gotcha very helpful thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go next to Ryan Krueger with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Hey thanks good morning.
First question was on U.S.
session rates I know the industry that hasn’t been published yet but when you look back to this year giving they remain pretty stable or did you think of it’s much of a change? Yeah I don’t - I don’t know that we expect much of a change I think that if anything the rates would be within a very close range of where they were last year they might be a little low or might be a little bit down but we are waiting for those results as well and we’ll see them in a very short time now.
Okay thanks.
And then principal rates are having - I guess this should impacted in 2017 how do you see that impacting RGA? Again where there in tinge like that there is opportunities when business was priced under one set of assumptions and suddenly if something changes it looks a little different and a lot of times companies want to restructure change the nature of that of their balance sheet in in-force blocks.
And so we viewed as an opportunity set for us at the same time will be subject to our own principals based capital regime so we’ll have some things concern ourselves within that front as well.
But generally speaking when there is change like that we view that as more opportunity than not.
Okay.
And then just a last one do you have an estimate of how much low interest rates would impact 2016 results? Yeah so I swear to call because we have to make a call on prepayments and that sort of thing but we expect certainly that will be a headwind and could have an impact of 15 to 20 basis points on the yields.
Okay got it thank you.
And there are no other questions at this time.
I would like to turn things back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
So thanks to everyone who joined us with the call today.
With that we will go ahead and complete the call and are available for any other questions.
By the way I would add before we close that Anna Manning is actually travelling in Asia this week and on future calls the President will join us.
Thank you very much for your attention today.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.