To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters a variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2011 annual report on Form 10-K which is available on raymondjames.com and sec.gov.
In addition to those factors in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance: difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue; in earnings growth; changes in the capital markets; and diversion of management time on integration-related issues.
Thank you I will now turn the call over to Paul Reilly CEO.
Yes this is Jeff Julien.
Before Paul jumps on here I'd just like to make one further statement.
In this press release and throughout our conversation here we mention some non-GAAP results.
We have in the full text of the press release done a reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP results.
For those of you don't have the full press release it's available either through EDGAR on the 8-K we filed or on our own corporate website so you can see that reconciliation if you'd like.
Great.
Thanks Jeff and good morning this is Paul Reilly.
I want to start off saying we're actually pleased with the quarterly results and I know it's difficult kind of following given the combination.
And it's very difficult actually separating the legacy Morgan Keegan businesses and the legacy Raymond James business because we went through in the process of combining especially in ECM and in fixed income so the numbers aren't always apples to apples.
I think -- first to put the quarter in prospect you have to remember we've been very consistent.
Our long-term goal has been to keep as much revenue as we can is to make sure the environment for producers was a positive environment that the transition was a positive experience and that our cost synergies would come later.
And although we did have some severance at the beginning of the quarter in ECM and in fixed income kind of mid-quarter those costs haven't really flown through.
And all the operating costs in terms of dual systems and support are still in place.
We told you we would eliminate those redundancies over time but our focus has been to keep service levels high to retain our producers.
And I think you have to put that so the cost savings will come but there -- we've purposely not executed on those at this time.
We've focused on them we know they're coming we know the areas but they are to come after we get through the integration and make sure that the support levels keep very very high.
This also was not a positive economic environment for our businesses.
If you look at the Private Client business the S&amp;P was down 3.3% and our assets under administration combined were down about 1.5% but that's in keeping with our normal Private Client Group ratio when you see the market fall.
And yet PCG had a good quarter and combine had near a high 9-ish kind of margins.
The bank had a record quarter had strong loan growth which hits the reserve as we book loans.
And also from our SNC exam we did have an additional charge of about $4 million.
But as you know our policy is we always take the lower of the SNC exams for our ratings and when the SNCs -- when we get a SNC exam that writes up loans we don't write them up.
So the bank it's been a very solid quarter.
ECM been a tough market.
You can look at our competitor's release everyone is having a difficult time in this equity capital market environment.
And if you look at our investment banking business we had a very tough April a reasonable May a very good June but July slowed back down.
So if you look at Equity Capital Markets' business our revenues were kind of flat with additional costs from Morgan Keegan analysts and people we've brought in which has impacted the equity capital market kind of results for the quarter.
In Fixed Income we had a reasonable quarter but you have to remember we also had a number of factors that impacted I think profitability.
Trading profits were down from our usual run rate because we had a flight to quality.
We hedged our munis with treasuries we used treasuries to hedge.
And when it's applied to quality it impacts our trading profits.
Also the Fixed Income business is a business that does well when there's good spreads when interest rates are higher and there's a lot of volatility 3 factors we didn't -- that didn't go our way in this quarter.
But given that we had good results.
Maybe a little off from historic but given the environments especially with the treasury market phenomena decent results.
Our Asset Management business continued to perform.
Even with this market and down market we had net inflows.
So with all of that we retained revenue with a down market draft so our revenue retention is above our estimates and expectations which is our goal.
And even in a tough market we had flat sequential non-GAAP EPS after the acquisition expenses.
And had the market been flat to up my guess is it would have -- you would've seen some accretion.
But in a down market we did what we told you we would do we're focused on those types of expenses.
But the expense synergies will come.
In terms of the integration we are on track.
Our attention is strong the mood is great.
We've had our summer development conferences with our Private Client Groups with Morgan Keegan people attending very very positive on the firm and the integration.
Our systems are on track for consolidation with our fixed income consolidation looking toward the end of this calendar year and the PCG into next -- the first half of the next calendar year.
Things are going well.
So we will look at the -- right now we're running redundant systems with 2 broker-dealers and we will see cost savings once we consolidate those.
So the cost synergies will come.
Our focus is in keeping the people.
So with that I think that's kind of an overview.
When you look at the numbers we know they're moving around.
We will as we projected -- we think if we keep the revenue that the -- this will be a very synergistic combination which we expect to realize start seeing the results of it next year.
So with that overview I'm going to turn it over to Jeff.
And I know you're going to have a lot of questions on the pieces given that it's a little more complicated quarter.
Jeff? Yes let me add a couple of higher level comments myself some a little bit redundant with what Paul just said.
We did do better as we said in the press release text.
We did do a little better in revenue retention than we had forecast.
That was our primary mission.
We as he mentioned are running redundant systems at 2 different broker-dealers system.
There's actually still 2 systems in the fixed income side until we get fully integrated.
And obviously we have some of the attendant costs of people that are running that and people that we haven't -- we haven't totally rightsized departments as we haven't fully integrated yet.
So just to take you back to our comments from prior quarters we anticipated somewhat minimal accretion from this transaction for the first year or so because of this dynamic and I'd say that's more or less coming to pass Morgan Keegan is performing as expected or slightly better and we are incurring the incremental costs that we expected at the corporate level with additional interest for the debt that we issued.
We also have some amortization of RSUs and other retention dollars on a quarterly basis now that were part of the deal that are incremental expenses at the corporate level.
And when you net those things like we said we're going to -- we expect somewhat minimal accretion until we get through the complete integration at which time we'll see some better realization of expense reductions.
With respect to the actual results for the quarter I mean walking through by segment -- and I'm kind of going to respond to some of the comments I've already read in several of the reports that have come out since we released earnings last night.
It really is much more appropriate to look at it by segment to which most all of you do now as opposed to by line item within the P&amp;L.
It just gets a little hard to track what's coming from where in these line items.
But within the Private Client Group as Paul mentioned we had a very good quarter.
We're at about $685 million in revenues for that group for the quarter and a 9.4% margin.
That's fairly acceptable results.
And given the market backdrop for the quarter obviously most of the incremental revenues were from adding the 940-or-so Morgan Keegan brokers to the sales force.
Asset Management was about as expected.
It moves around with the market that we are remember an equity-heavy shop there.
Not a lot of movement for the quarter versus the prior quarter.
The bank as Paul mentioned another -- a second consecutive record quarter.
Not only did we realize a full quarter of the Canadian loan portfolio that we purchased in February but we continued to organically add quite a few loans about -- just under $400 million net for the June quarter and we have had growth organically up until then to which we realized the interest benefits from.
So despite the slightly higher loan loss provision of $9 million in change versus $5 million in change the prior quarter virtually all due to the SNC charge we were back ahead of record levels for the bank.
The one I skipped over which really is the one that looks odd when you do the margin calculations et cetera is the Capital Markets segment.
Really a couple of things at work here.
It's a little hard as again Paul mentioned for us to tell exactly what legacy Morgan Keegan did versus legacy Raymond James as the Equity Capital Markets was fully integrated right after the transaction in early April.
And fixed income throughout the quarters was migrating inventory positions and traders and people from one company to the other.
So we're -- I can't really tell legacy to legacy what happened exactly but for the entire segment which I'll subsegment into equity and fixed income for a moment the Equity Capital Markets segment was roughly flat in revenues quarter to prior quarter but had poorer results than the preceding quarter.
Those results were down in Canada in Equity Capital Markets.
And domestically we added several of the Morgan Keegan people to our platform here in Equity Capital Markets in some of the business units that they cover that we didn't.
So we actually had a pretty not a significant but a reasonable increase in headcount in Equity Capital Markets for the quarter.
And we didn't -- we only had comparable revenues with higher expenses so we did worse than the preceding quarter in Equity Capital Markets against a tough market environment as I'm sure you're seeing in other people's results as well.
In the fixed income side of that segment we did see a nice boost in revenues a flight to quality.
And for those of you new to the story we have basically in my mind at least we were on 4 different categories of inventory.
We run municipals corporates mortgage backed and then government and agency.
When there's a flight to quality people are fleeing into the government agency.
Legacy Raymond James that was an area we didn't have a big focus on.
And when there's flight to quality generally caused either a decline in value or at best flat values in all the other types of securities while government securities are increasing in value.
We use short governments -- short treasuries typically to hedge part of our municipal bond inventories.
We're hedging interest rate risk.
We're not hedging credit risk.
So when there's flight to quality in the past legacy Raymond James has been -- lost value on both the long and the short side and those have been our worst trading periods.
While we had a little -- mini version of that here in this past quarter thanks to Europe as the treasury yields on the tenure touched 1.5% in the month of May and now of course they've gone through that.
But offsetting that to some extent is the fact that Morgan Keegan does have a government agency concentration and now we do collectively which -- and those trading profits continue unabated or even pick up in times of this flight to quality.
So that enabled us to show an increase in trading profits despite the fact that we had this flight to quality during the quarter.
But net-net probably still below what we would expect as an ongoing run rate in that category absent this flight to quality.
The only other segment I'll mention is we had a revenue boost here from Proprietary Capital as we had a fairly significant revaluation of the last holding in our merchant banking fund which we do consolidate.
So we're picking up 100% of the revaluation but not very much of that actually finds its way to our bottom line.
Plus we had some revaluations of some others that went the other way and others that went the same way.
So net-net-net the pretax line and the Proprietary Capital segment didn't move very much from the preceding quarter but we did have a big revenue boost so that helped us on the revenue beat that some of you are -- have referred to in your comments.
A couple other factors I'd like to mention.
Book value per share ended at $23.29 in the release by my calc's tangible book value per share is about $21.71.
I do want to talk about comp ratio for moment.
It went down about 0.7% on net revenues.
We sort of expected it to go down once -- certainly once Morgan Keegan is fully integrated as we're adding a bunch of employees FAs and businesses where -- with comp ratios lower than our historic corporate ratio.
It didn't go down much in this first quarter.
While we did add those people we also had these incremental amortization of comp expenses.
Plus as Paul mentioned we've only throughout part of the quarter started rightsizing some of these departments and still have a little more work to do in that regard.
So we haven't -- the comp ratio hasn't gotten hopefully all the way down to where it may once this is fully integrated.
On the net interest line it was actually flat with last quarter and I sort of consider that sort of expected but sort of a victory.
There are really 3 pieces to that.
We added $300 million to $400 million of Morgan Keegan margin balances which added about $3 million of interest earnings to the Private Client segment.
We at the bank we've mentioned we had higher loan balances in the full quarter of the Canadian loan portfolio et cetera which added about $6 million in net interest in that particular segment.
That was roughly offset by about $9 million of additional interest at the corporate level for the debt that we issued in the March quarter to consummate the acquisition.
So net-net about awash and about as expected in net interest.
I guess lastly what I would say is we've sliced and diced this quarter a lot of different ways.
There is a lot of noise.
We think we've got everything that came on board from Morgan Keegan classified in the right line items in the right segments to be comparable and to set a baseline here for going forward.
But again it was a solid quarter for Private Client Group Asset Management.
And in Raymond James Bank we're very pleased with those results.
And then the capital markets against some tough market environments we -- I'd say we did okay but that's not at the historic margins that we'd like to get back to.
So those are my comments.
Back to my accretion comment earlier you can see on a GAAP basis we actually were up a couple of pennies from the preceding quarter.
We're trying to be pretty judicious about what we put in the nonrecurring charges line.
We certainly are not following the kitchen sink mentality on this.
We're -- and in fact they're probably -- if anything we're going the other way a little bit.
There are some things that one could certainly argue are attributable to the integration of the 2 operations.
But if there are people costs and things like that we're not trying to allocate people's time et cetera.
We're really putting in there external identifiable hard costs in that line item.
So that's where the $20 million a quarter has come from so far.
This particular quarter that line item was dominated by severance expenses.
In the preceding quarter it was dominated more by transaction-related expenses in preparing to close the deal.
On a non-GAAP basis we were flat with the preceding quarter.
Again I think that's probably pretty much as expected given that the Morgan Keegan additive results were somewhat offset by these increased corporate expenses I talked about with the additional interest and the amortization of some of the retention money.
So net-net I think we came out pretty close to where we thought not too far away from where the Street thought as well.
So I'll turn it back over to Paul.
Yes.
And just again the highlight is that in a quarter I think most people in our business showed revenue down.
Our revenue is up.
We've kept the retention in a market -- in a downdraft market by retaining people.
That's been our goal as we've told you from the very beginning is that we knew we were going to run cost heavy.
I think you know us as a shop that manages costs but we are going to be a little bit heavy through this integration and realize these cost savings as we integrate.
And net-net with a down kind of capital markets and a down S&amp;P this last quarter I think we had a very reasonable quarter and I think we're very well positioned.
Got a lot of work to do on the integration still.
It's on schedule.
So far we've hit all of our benchmarks but we've got a lot of work to do.
So with that we'll go ahead and open it up for questions.
Brooke? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Hugh Miller with Sidoti Capital.
LLC</strong> I was wondering -- you commented in the press release about the trend in home office visits.
Was wondering if you could just help us to quantify what you're seeing there relative to maybe this time last year and the interest for candidate advisors? I don't have the exact statistics Hugh but we are -- visits are way up as opposed to last year and especially in the employee side.
And I think the -- I know what was reported by our guys yesterday but I don't have the numbers in front of me to quote it so I'm not going to.
But it's driven really by I think a number -- a couple of the wire houses where retentions worn off people didn't like how they transitioned to them.
And the interesting thing is they're very large advisors typically multimillion dollar kind of advisers or teams.
So it's -- home office visits are only step one but I had some concern that the combination would make people wonder a little bit about what the environment is going to be like.
And I actually think it had the reverse effect where people realized that we're becoming a stronger and stronger player and so we're -- those visits are up.
I think another factor is that prior to this transaction the Morgan Keegan offices really weren't in a recruiting mode at all.
And they certainly now have the ability to recruit to the future Raymond James platform so they're in some areas where we haven't even been geographically.
So that has expanded our universe of recruiters so to speak.
LLC</strong> And I guess as a follow-up given the dynamic that they are large producers that they've just went through a period and the retention that they're -- they have is kind of running lower do you get the feeling that there's -- is there any difference in what they're looking for? Is this going to be an environment where it's very price competitive with upfront money or do you think that the outlook is really "I want to find a home that I'm comfortable working in?" What are you seeing there? That's a tale of 2 cities there.
There are certainly companies that are writing bigger checks than we are.
There always has been.
We've never been the top kind of retention payer.
And the people we get are the people that believe that longer term not only are they going to through their earnings do well here over time but want to be in an environment that's ours.
So we do lose some people to the bigger check and we get a lot of people who want the environment.
And once they're here I can't tell you how many times people say "I wish I had done this 10 years ago." So we'll lose people to the check we will.
Some people have to recapitalize or they'll get seduced by the size of the checks which can be pretty big and there are still people in the market doing that.
So I think you're going to see both but we're not going to do on that economic deals and we continue to kind of hold our ground.
But there just -- there seems to be more movement whether it's for check or for dissatisfaction.
There just seems to be more movement out there right now than there has been the last year or so.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And in the Capital Markets segment obviously with going out there and talking with institutional clients following the acquisition and the combined franchise how are those discussions going with regards to the voting process and how much business do you anticipate that you may lose just given that you're combining the offering and you may have some people that will pay you less than they would for each franchise separately.
Yes.
I think that in the Equity Capital Markets side we didn't assume a lot of synergy on sales and trading outside of the areas where we picked up coverage we didn't have it before.
So we had big overlap there almost 85% of the names.
So even in our own model we didn't assume a big revenue synergy or really any revenue synergy on the commission side that we felt that we got some good bankers and we've got some good analysts and that would help but there certainly was overlap.
And we kind of took most of that revenue out of our model.
Clients responded very positively.
I think they like the combined platform.
They liked the parent because they know who we are and a lot of those clients were the same both in the Fixed Income and Equity Capital Markets side.
LLC</strong> And a couple of questions at the bank.
I did notice quite a bit of an uptick in criticized loans.
I know that the other asset quality trends continue to look like they were improving.
But I was wondering if you could make some comments on kind of what was driving that increase in criticized loans and maybe color on why you weren't a little bit more active on the reserve additions given that rise? Hugh it's Steve Raney.
During the course of every quarter we probably have 25 to 30 loans that are being upgraded downgraded based on their operating performance loans where we're adding to and in some cases loans that we're not participating and the refinancer being repaid obviously so there's a lot of activity that goes on.
This quarter what contributed significantly to that increase in criticized assets was the result of the Shared National Credit exam.
We actually thought that the results turned out very favorable and when I say that there were no directed charge-offs there were no loans that were put on nonaccrual as a result of that.
However there were about 5 loans that were -- went from pass rating to criticized via the Shared National Credit exam that contributed to the increasing criticized loans.
There was not an increase in -- actually a reduction in nonaccruals and in OREO and more problematic asset categories but we did have an increase in criticized loans via the Shared National Credit exam.
And we already discussed the provision expense impact that was -- that came as a result of that.
LLC</strong> Yes.
And was there anything specific to a type of loan categorization within those 5 loans that went criticized? They were across -- broad industry spectrum.
So...
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last question at the bank was just with regards to expectations for future loan portfolio expansion.
Obviously I would suspect that the pace was slow but what are your thoughts there and what are you seeing? Yes.
I mean you were trying to manage a loan -- the loan portfolio growth in the 7% to 8% range kind of out for the -- on an annualized basis for the next few years.
It can be lumpier than that.
Obviously we had a very strong quarter this last quarter.
That would translate to loan growth kind of in the $150 million to $200 million per quarter looking out over the next few quarters.
The reality is it will once again it will be lumpier than that.
We may have some quarters that will be short of that and some other quarters that may be higher.
I would mention that we did close last week on the purchase of the securities-based loans from Regions Bank that were secured with the Morgan Keegan brokerage accounts that was $185 million.
So that purchase did close.
We're now around $300 million in securities-based loans.
So that's a category and a product that we're actively growing and working very closely with our Private Client Group financial advisers on.
LLC</strong> And what was the closing date of that? The 20th of July this quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the last question was just with regard to expectations for kind of severance and the timing and the additions as we look out over the next quarter or 2.
Can you give us any color and clarity? Do you have a sense there on the timing of some of those expenses? We have some natural attrition actually on the -- from the back office side of Morgan Keegan but our goal is to keep most of that in place.
We will have some trimming but our focus is to get the systems integrated.
So I think you're really looking not for big numbers in this fiscal year but really into next fiscal year where you'll see more of that.
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just to follow up on the very last question.
Can you give us a little bit more sense just in dollar terms how much of a benefit you could see from severance or I guess from lower comp as people kind of leave bringing you guys to a trim headcount? As well as the technology integration? I don't think we've quantified the severance.
I don't think we've quantified actually the savings but we think they're -- from today's run rate what do we say on the beginning of the...
Total savings $60 million $60 million to $80 million.
$60 million total.
Including people costs and systems costs and et cetera et cetera that we expect but that's upon full integration.
I mean we didn't -- we haven't quantified the comp associated with the relevant severance at this particular point but it's also scattered throughout all the segments predominantly Capital Markets but some in other areas like ops and IT.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So $60 million to $80 million on an annualized basis from the current expense run rate is that the way [indiscernible]? That's upon full integration that's when we finish integrating the Private Client Group early next calendar year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So by early next calendar year that should be in the run rate -- okay got you.
And then maybe flipping this into a similar question just kind of spinning it a little bit differently.
If you look in your -- if you look at your operating margin you guys are running again this quarter with 14% I guess 14.6%.
Again once everything is said and done how do you think that's going to shake out for the overall business? Where -- it depends on a whole bunch of things what the markets going to do et cetera et cetera et cetera.
But I think that the preceding quarter which I know you referenced in your comments wasn't a bad measure.
If we could add all those and maybe improve a little bit on that.
It also depends which businesses become dominant because our businesses have very different margins.
But we certainly expect margin we expect -- have expected margin improvement from adding the scale of Morgan Keegan once the businesses are fully integrated particularly because they have such an emphasis in the fixed income space which is a higher margin business than some of the businesses that dominate in our P&amp;L like the Private Client Group.
The numbers that we kind of put out as benchmarks were $20 million to $25 million operational costs savings and the rest were in severance and people costs in the operating businesses so we have no reason to believe those are a lot different.
And again it depends on revenue and how the business is doing.
So again our focus has been we can bring costs down now.
And I think a lot of companies would have done that.
And it's not that we're oblivious to costs or we don't watch them very closely we do.
But we're running 2 broker dealers with 2 services and we want to keep service levels high client service high.
And we're confident we'll get to the costs.
So as we said when we announced this is that people have to be a little patient.
We'll get to them but we're going to make sure the integration happens first.
That hasn't changed a bit.
We said that the majority of the accretion will be realized starting in fiscal '14 and that's still the case because that'll be the first full fiscal year that the full integration is completed.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my second question is around -- you guys obviously highlighted there's strong retention on the revenue side.
Can you quantify some of the things from the FA perspective something like I don't know percentage of FAs that -- for Morgan Keegan that you've been able to retain versus your prior guidance or your prior thoughts? And maybe some measure of productivity of Morgan Keegan's FAs versus Ray Jay's FAs and where they could potentially go to.
Yes we've talked about some of these things pre-merger.
I guess you -- maybe you weren't covering us then Alex maybe.
The Morgan Keegan we have had retention to high 90s percent of those who we made retention offers to but that was about 560 FAs in the Morgan Keegan system.
Obviously some 400 or so in addition have stayed with us that were at production levels below that and some may have gone on to other places.
But the retention rate of those that we wanted is extraordinarily high.
In terms of average production when we -- prior to the acquisition we had quantified their average production the same way be calculate it and they were 12% lower than RJA which we kind of view this somewhat as an opportunity as we presented them with a little more complete suite of products and services that they could expand their practice.
And we haven't -- that gap will have to work the close but we're putting a number of our products on their platform right now but we're not going to be able to really move heavily against that number until they're on the same operating -- on the back-office platform.
So we are introducing process -- products asset management products other things research to them giving them tools but we won't get the full benefit and allow that to migrate significantly until we get them on our operating.
Right like to our CMA account platform for example.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a couple of numbers questions.
Can you quantify the prop capital boost that you mentioned in your prepared remarks how much of that contributed to revenues this quarter? And then how much of the I guess minority interest is associated with that kind of gain this quarter? Is it an entire thing? Or is it a little lower a little higher? Well the majority of the revenues were related to that one -- the vast majority was related to that one company that was revalued that I mentioned in the merchant banking space.
We have a very small TP interest in that and we have about a 13% or 15% limited partnership interest in that.
But the rest all would be in the noncontrolling interest category.
There are other revaluations as well.
There's a company we own 100% of that was revalued negatively for the quarter.
And then this is also the quarter as somebody mentioned in their comments that we get the audited statements from all the outside venture capital funds that we have investments in primarily for investment banking relationship purposes not a lot of money in them but at least we do have that investment.
And those are all revalued based on their audited statements which added a little over $1 million write-up from those.
So the net-net of all those things turned out to not be a very big number to the pretax line relative to the revenues.
I think as people looked through and I understand the questions too I want to remind people on our kind of our approach to integration cost.
A lot of firms would put in retention as an integration cost we don't.
We have a significant increase in overtime from our ops and technology groups and it's all to support the integration we expense it all.
We only -- our capital -- we're only putting in that category direct identifiable contracts.
So if we hire a consultant to help us an IT consulting company to help us with the transfer we charge it.
If we'd do it something for Raymond James so that we can free people to work on it we don't put it in that category.
So we're going to run cost heavy during this process until we get the integration because we're not trying to throw everything in there.
We're only using a very I think conservative direct allocation of cost and we're going to continue -- that's just been our nature.
And that goes towards your margin question as well.
And we are definitely -- if you just look up the overtime report I just looked at it.
We're -- I mean our costs are up to support this integration to get through it and get systems combined and they will be for a little bit and -- but we'll get them in line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry to follow up on this but since you guys went there so on this overtime comment is that -- when you talk about the $60 million to $80 million of expenses going away does that include the kind of normalization of the extra time that people put in et cetera? Or is that might be on top of the $60 million to $80 million? Because it sounds like $60 million to $80 million is just technology and maybe the extra folks that you still have working on your platform.
Yes $60 million to $80 million on the prerelease was our determination of cost savings for the back office and...
People and systems.
And people and system and in people right? All this other stuff that we're carrying overtime and things like that will go away.
Now the $60 million to $80 million is a much big number overtime.
But I'm just giving you an example of costs that we are incurring during this integration that we will continue to until the systems are.
We're -- we want to make sure that people are supported.
Our people are also integrating the Morgan Keegan people also report to people at Raymond James and they're streaming those systems and spending a lot of time.
So there is a lot of effort during the integration and cost the we are incurring.
And I'm sure I don't know what the plane travel is between here and Memphis but Delta likes us during this integration time.
And we're going to -- we're just going to run heavy for a little bit to our traditional numbers.
And I think if you had seen a flat S&amp;P versus one down 3.3% in the quarter you would've seen my guess is a little bit of accretion.
The market was down a little bit.
I think we did well and the costs are the costs so -- but don't think we're ignoring them we're just sticking to our plan.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
All right.
Last one for me.
At the bank net interest margin up nicely quarter-over-quarter 3.69% versus 3.55%.
I guess some of those are mix shifts you guys did pick up a little bit of loans.
Given the rate dynamic and balancing that with your prospects for future loan growth how should we think about that shaking out in the next few quarters? Yes I mean I think that the margins were actually relatively stable but actually I think down just slightly if I'm not mistaken.
[indiscernible] And I guess the full realization at Canada for the quarter right? So what we're seeing right now on the new business has been relatively stable but we do continue to have some resets in our mortgage portfolio from the fixed rate period to the adjusted period.
So we're seeing some reduction in our mortgage portfolio in terms of margins.
That's been a profitable business for us for the last 18 months though the new business in terms of the loans that we are selling to Fannie Mae the margins have been good in that business.
You don't see that in the net interest margin but you see that in our bottom line.
Our commercial business I would say over the last couple of quarters has been relatively stable.
We had enjoyed a period of wider margins we saw compression but I would say over the last couple of quarters has been relatively stable.
We're very selective.
There's kind of a sweet spot that we play in.
There's obviously credits that are below our return objectives and then there are riskier credits at much wider spreads that we could plan but we have stayed away from that.
So I think that in terms of providing you some guidance going forward our margin should be relatively stable within 10 basis points of what the run rate has been in the last couple of quarters.
Yes.
We have been guiding people to 3.40% to 3.50% roughly Alex and just based on the portfolio that's in place.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So 3.70-ish now down to 3.40 3.50.
You can -- in any given quarter though you can have some loan payoffs the way we recognize a bunch of fees that do get into this line item that distort.
And on the other hand we can have excessive amounts of cash that depress the rate.
Its relatively small right now in terms of our overall loan portfolio.
The securities-based loans that we're making have a margin of around 300 basis points so it reduces our margin but it's a very low-risk asset.
Once again it's small the impact of that is small right now.
But I think our guidance would stand going forward for the near term.
Your next question comes from Chris Harris with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to come back to the costs again really quickly.
The $60 million to $80 million in savings we're expecting here.
You mentioned kind of the beginning of calendar 2013 for the majority of that.
Should we expect the savings to be more back-end loaded in other words savings really need to be mostly realized then rather than kind of incremental improvement over the next couple of quarters? Yes you got things going couple of ways.
You'll see some incremental savings like when we did the rightsizing of the fixed income that was mid quarter so some of that comp adjustment will get through.
And again the size of the operation there -- has gotten somewhat smaller but most of it you're going to see after the system integration after we get both systems combined and we could combine back offices is when we're going to be able to execute on that.
So those savings we're pretty comfortable about getting out of the business.
And as you know we also have extra costs.
We have the interest costs on our bonds and we have amortization expense that'll come through on RSUs and things like that.
But in terms of getting the hard dollar cost out of the business we will.
But I think we have to look -- once we move the system over and have it complete stable and running we'll get a lot of those costs out.
And there's going to be some real estate cost savings as well as we combine some of the institutional offices in the big cities as we've done already in New York and other places that once we get those offices combined and either sublease or take a charge or whatever we do for the space that we've abandoned.
Yes there'll be ongoing occupancy expense savings there.
I would keep you on our original guidance.
I see no reasons to think the game plan has changed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then in capital markets I don't think it really surprised anybody that it is a tough environment and revenues clearly aren't around where you guys would like to see them.
Trying to get a sense of the magnitude of the change.
And I know it's hard because we're now looking at the combined business versus legacy Raymond James in the prior quarter but can you give us some sense as to the percent decline if you're looking at like an apples-to-apples basis the revenue decline in the quarter in Capital Markets? In total Capital Markets or in equity Capital Markets? LLC Research Division</strong> In total Capital Markets well maybe both if you could provide it.
They're such 2 different businesses that one is hard.
As I mentioned in my comments equity capital markets was roughly flat quarter-to-quarter.
We had some added business with some of the Morgan Keegan units that covered areas we didn't cover.
But in any given quarter you've got within that segment you've got a mixture of M&amp;A new issue business and over-the-desk secondary commissions.
And the secondary commissions business has been really tough business.
The overall pie has shrunk somewhat going forward here so now -- and then M&amp;A is lumpy as you know so -- and as -- but for us with the added horsepower from some of the Morgan Keegan units we ended up staying flat quarter-to-quarter.
Fixed income which is one of the strengths that they brought to the table here obviously had a significant increase in revenues virtually all the increase in the segment was related to the Fixed Income business that they brought to the table but there were redundancies et cetera in that area as well that -- such as a municipal fixed income business and things like that.
So you don't necessarily see all the benefits of those synergies in this first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> It sounds pretty good to me given the environment.
I mean I think some of your peers reporting double-digit percent declines in capital markets revenue.
So to the extent you were able to do flat in ECM I mean I think that's pretty good.
Overall the organization did about $257 million in total Capital Markets revenues.
In a normal environment where do you think that number could go? What's normal? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last quarter? That's so hard to say because the Equity Capital Markets pick up and strong equity markets and fixed income historically tends to go down and vice versa.
So I would say that neither of those businesses -- certainly equity Capital Markets wasn't firing on half its cylinders but fixed income did okay.
I mean it was not a great quarter not a bad quarter.
We're very happy with the sales folks the throughput the inventory turn the inventory management.
All the things we thought we are acquiring in Morgan Keegan we did.
We have very good people.
So it's a good business.
Quarter was down trading profit wise as we've explained as treasuries came in cost of some trading profits net but it's a good business.
So if the market gets really volatile and bad I mean the fixed income business will probably do really well if...
If you look at the overall margin in that business for the quarter of under 11% that is substandard to what we would expect on a go forward basis.
And the revenues -- I don't see why they would -- this was not a blowout good revenue quarter so I don't see that that -- that there's certainly some room for upside in the -- on the revenue side as well.
But the margin isn't where it needs to be yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mid-teens Jeff on the margin is what you'd like to kind of shoot for? I think that's achievable with the mix of Fixed Income and Equity Capital Markets that we have.
Your next question comes from Devin Ryan with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> The majority of my questions have already been asked but maybe just get some flavor on the progression of just retail sentiment throughout last quarter.
So essentially did things deteriorate further kind of the back half of the quarter after Facebook and the markets deteriorated a bit more as well.
So I just want to get a sense if the things kind of deteriorated as the quarter progressed and if you're seeing or hearing any changes in retail sentiment that's worth noting? Yes.
I think investor's sentiment certainly is -- if we look at our own index the number of people thinking the economy is going to get better went down fairly dramatically.
I think you had Facebook you had the equity capital markets in Europe I think as people see the election now you can't feel too great.
I'm not sure about anything.
So the investor's sentiment is negative but if you look at the movement a lot of it's been from international and to domestic we haven't seen a big flight in our system out of equities.
There's certainly some high historic cash balances in fixed income.
So I think we haven't seen the investors kind of abandon the markets but they're all cautious.
And they're going to stay cautious until they get other signs so that hasn't changed really.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just to beat a dead horse just a little bit more here.
I just want to make sure I'm clear.
Is none of that $60 million to $80 million in annual expense run rate production for Morgan Keegan reflected yet in expenses? Some of it is in the areas where we've let people go such as Equity Capital Markets and places like that where we've actually have started to rightsize the business.
And in the Fixed Income where we went through that reduction mid-quarter part of that payroll will be through but part of that revenue is through too.
Some of that is a loss of revenue.
We do get to keep a lot of the accounts but some of it is...
Equity Capital Markets isn't made up of all producers.
There are a lot of financial analysts and research analysts and other people that don't necessarily have revenue tied to them that we would put in that expense savings category.
We'll get the costs out.
And if the markets got really tough we would move on costs a little quicker just as you would in any business.
But right now the focus is getting a good smooth transition and it's been excellent.
So the numbers are there I just think it's going to -- we got to get to them.
Your next question comes from Douglas Sipkin with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of questions.
First with respect to maybe the SNC and the credit quality stuff.
I'm just curious I mean it just seems like it's a little bit of a divergence from sort of some of the metrics that you guys are reporting.
And maybe it doesn't tie in as much because of the residential but it looked like the residential finally should have realized improvements.
So I'm just wondering was there any sort of specific nuance to this quarter? It just seems like the SNC -- the impact was a bit of a surprise considering the way things have been trending.
I guess like I was just -- going back to my comment we move loans every quarter up and down and so -- and I know that each -- last 4 or 5 years we've had some impact from the Shared National Credit exam.
We have 360 borrowers the vast majority of them are subject to the Shared National Credit exam.
So it's been a relatively small number of loans that the Shared National Credit exam were different than how we had things rated.
That said I think the regulators are taking a harsh look at anything that has any leverage to it even if the cash flows are very strong and the operations and even a growth may be there.
Anything that has some leverage to it even if there's plenty of liquidity and access to capital they're -- in some cases once again this is somewhat isolated moved a loan to a criticized status.
Once again in every situation that impacted this in terms of our provision expense we feel comfortable with the credits that we're in.
And actually it's kind of funny a couple of them have announced -- one of them has a planned offering to raise more equity and another company is refinancing entirely and will probably exit the credit.
So none of these were moved to a status that -- where we felt like there was an accrual issue or anything along those lines.
So we feel actually pretty comfortable with those downgrades.
And I just want to say you've tracked us for a long time and we tend to be conservative we do not think that the credit quality has deteriorated at all this quarter.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then maybe shifting gears a little bit.
Any sort of update on the Asset Management business? I know you guys have been looking to expand there and leadership there sort of indicated that there may be something happening this time maybe something happening this year any more color around Asset Management growth plans? We are very methodically still looking for a large cap manager either a firm or a lift out.
We have been talking to people.
It's a very entrepreneurial business so often people get interested and cold feet and interested and cold -- it's a cycle.
And we still want to do that.
We're focused on doing it.
We continue to meet with people.
And if we can strike the right deal with a manager we like that fits into our culture we will.
And those efforts are ongoing.
So we haven't lost the focus on it even during this integration but we don't have anything to announce.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- so historically -- and I know I mean this is going back a bit but Tom James sort of indicated there are certain levels -- buyback was never part of your guide strategy.
But at certain levels certain multiples of book I forget it was 1 2 1 3 you would consider it.
I mean has that changed given sort of the increased leverage on the model on the sort of buybacks out basically? Just because obviously you guys are comfortable with the coverage -- while you do in fact have more debt.
Or if it gets to sort of some multiple of book maybe that would be something you would consider again? We -- our policy has not changed at all.
I do think that depending on where we are in a credit or economic cycle we look at it and make decisions.
Right now we like our liquidity and our position and have no real need -- interest to buy back stock.
We're staying very liquid through this period of time.
Who knows where the economy is going to go.
And so we've announced no buyback plans but our philosophy hasn't changed.
In '08 and '09 we had a lot of opportunity but we didn't buy back because given the liquidity in the markets we didn't use our capital.
So it's all situational the philosophy is intact.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just last question.
Obviously you guys look to be having a lot of success on the employee side you're hiring recently and clearly some are bigger producers.
Any plans to maybe get a little bit more aggressive on the independent side because that also looks like it's becoming a really nice channel as more and more brokers break away and sort of look to go on their own.
I mean is there -- is that a focus for you guys? Do you maybe spend -- plan on spending a little bit more money to continue to upgrade infrastructure or -- just curious what your thoughts are there because that also looks like it's a hot place with some recruiting now.
Yes we've actually hired more recruiters.
We're focused on it.
We've never abandoned the independent channel.
I think that some of our competitors numbers wise have done better but we kind of have producer minimums.
We're not in the technology roll-up or product sales game.
So our focus has been on the high-end producers.
We want to add advisers that meet some certain size and quality.
So we're still in it we're still recruiting we've combined our recruiting efforts actually to try get a more focused penetration but we have not given up on the independent channel.
I think what you see is in great equity capital markets the independent channel gets very popular with people.
In these markets people become a little more conservative.
So it's a little more safe environment but they're both -- we're recruiting in both just the -- as a percentage the employee side has just been busier recently but we're still focused on both.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Alim Shaikh with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of investment banking what was the breakdown between equity and debt underwriting in advisory? We do well we don't do much -- we do municipal debt underwriting we don't do -- we're not really into corporate debt underwriting in any meaningful way.
It's small enough we don't even focus on the number.
In that $70 million line item is that what it is? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's about $17 million $18 million M&amp;A.
At $23 million plus $5 million so $28 million in what you'd call traditional underwriting business new issue business.
About $16 million in public finance debt and then there's about $8 million in our -- in that line item related to our tax credit fund origination business.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And what was the period end share count? About 137 million.
Your next question comes from Steve Stelmach with FBR.
Research Division</strong> On the Private Client Group on the operating margin you guys mentioned the 9% this quarter.
When I look back over the past 10 years of that business it's averaged right around 9% yet we're in a pretty lackluster environment.
You got a lot more skill today than you have in the past.
Where can we expect that number to go to? Or in a better world I mean you sort of guided to mid-teens of institutional business.
Is that pretty analogous with what you expect to see in PCG or could it go higher? No we've focused on kind of 10%.
We have said in the past Steve that in a really good market environment that if we got on our mix of contractors employees including the operations we have in Canada and the U.K.
et cetera when all that is blended together we got to 12% that would be like a good next step.
Research Division</strong> Yes Okay.
So I mean still you got a little leverage there but more so probably coming out in the institutional business in sort of the operating margins? I'd say today that's accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And in terms of interest rate sensitivities still for this similar opportunity there if and when rates ever get so high? We quit mentioning when short term rates go up.
At this time there are no further questions.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? Thank you Brooke.
Just to say I appreciate the complexity for those who have been following us a long time and the couple that have initiated coverage.
This is an unusual quarter in terms of numbers moving around.
But we gave you initial guidance on what we thought this could do for us.
We also said we thought it could be accretive it would be more accretive than a positive market.
The first quarter was a little more positive so we got a little running room but this last quarter certainly wasn't the first quarter the combination.
So we're sticking to our strategy of just focusing on revenue retention which I think we've been very successful at and we don't take for granted that it's over.
The integration is going according to plan.
The cost savings as we gave original guidance we think are there but we said we would take them later not earlier and we're still focused on that.
So so far so good.
We have a lot of work to do and appreciate your questions.
And I think when we look back on this if we continue this -- if we're able to continue executing as we have been we'll look back a year to 2 from now and say this was great combination but that's all up to the execution and retention.
So thanks for your time.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lakesha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Quarterly Analyst Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  Mr.
Paul Reilly CEO you may begin your call.
Thank you Lakesha and we're calling here from St.
Petersburg.
I hope today is reflective of the earnings.
We are bright sunny and 74 as I'm sure most of you are sitting in right now.
I have in the room with me Jeff Julien who will be presenting our CFO; Jennifer Ackert; Steve Raney; and Paul Matecki and we'll get to your questions.
I'm going to start with kind of a brief overview and go through the segments on an overview basis and then turn it over to Jeff who will go into some of the more detailed numbers.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
I think the overall message is this is a strong quarter even after maybe some one-time adjustments.
We had record net revenue and a record net income even without the historic non-bank earnings that our industry has enjoyed.
And I think if you really look at it there's really two factors that are driving that.
First is the firm is well-positioned and even in the downturn we continue to recruit and grow and add to our team.
And the second factor is we've had a positive market and because of that growth in positioning we are able to really take advantage of the market and drive these results.
In all the business units really participated and I'd like to cover kind of the highlights of those the business units and then turn it to Jeff.
First on our Private Client Group we had record Assets under Administration of $262 billion.
This is a result of both market improvement and the historic recruiting we've done to continue to bring more financial advisors into the firm.
Productivity the average productivity of advisors depending on the channel is up 3% to 4% just versus the preceding quarter and with a good cost control our margins expanded where we're double digit in both of those segments.
So on a 5% revenue increase we had a pretax contribution increase of 18%.
Our advisor count was slightly down essentially flat.
The backlog of recruiting inquiries are going back up again as you I'm sure saw that Registered Rep rated us as number one in advisor satisfaction which again I think is giving much more inquiries into the firm and people looking to move calling Raymond James.
The next section I'd like to touch is Capital Markets a little bit of good news and hearin some I guess noise flowing through the segment.
Revenue was up 12% but you saw a decrease in the contribution.
Deal volume was very good.
Now some of the deal volumes we always have a hard time trying to give you apples-to-apples as indicators.
You could see that we showed in the U.S.
going from 12% lead manage to 5%.
One of the issue of that is just size because even though we may be a lead manage deal what's our participation? So it may reflect direction but you can't really use it as a multiple.
Canada also had a very very strong quarter at 14% versus 6% and the M&amp;A activity not just the underwriting but the M&amp;A activity continues to be very very strong that's on the positive side.
On the negative side we had a decrease in trading profits really as a result of fixed income with some municipal inventory that kind of went the wrong way in November and December brought our trading profits down for the quarter but that's pretty much seemed to have corrected in January.
We also had some comp accrual reversals.
Overall for the firm they weren't out of line but the equity capital markets had actually went the other way.
And we also had a product which we call Best Picks which is sold heavily in Europe where the commissions are higher so that drove expense with our independent contractors that drove the expense line a little up.
So the first quarter has some numbers I think flowing through that make the quarter a little more difficult to read for capital markets.
Of course we also announced the Howe Barnes acquisition which we think is a great fit for our firm it was about 120 associates.
This acquisition really fit Raymond James very well.
First with Dan and Bill on the team is a great cultural fit with our financial institution's equity capital market practice.
We think it'll help us to continue to penetrate our Financial Institutions business and be synergistic to our existing business.
CEO [ph] who heads our Financial Institution practice there is going to co-head it with Dan was a big advocate of the acquisition.
We office near each other in Chicago.
I would say on both sides people are excited about the addition to the team.
But there's also a lot of synergies with our Fixed Income group that we've been growing our financial institution fixed income practice.
Headquartered in Memphis we've added a number of sales and trading people both in the fixed income side and the synergies between the equity capital markets and fixed income should be very very strong.
We also have about 20 financial advisors that are part of the definitive merger agreement that we hope will be joining us.
So there's a good addition to that group and also one of our fastest growing recruiting segments is our FID or Financial Institutions Division and PCG which we think will help us in that area too.
So we think it's a great cultural fit and a good kind of niche acquisition like The Lane Berry that we look for here at Raymond James.
Asset management had record AUM excluding market funds of $33.4 billion and again assets were driven by the market but strong net inflows especially in the institutional side produced great results.
That business has very strong leverage so at a 14% increase in revenue we had a 35% increase in the contribution side.
We do have a little bit of one-time $3.2 million in performance fees that Jeff may address in the quarter but we had $3.6 million last year at the same time in the quarter.
So fees may be a little higher for the quarter on a normal run rate but not unusual as compared to a year ago.
Probably again a lot a focus on the bank which is the next segment I'll talk about.
16% increase in revenue driving a 70% increase in the contribution here and it's a tale of really a lot of stories with -- our loan production was strong.
In fact it was our best residential mortgage month in production.
We had good commercial production.
It's still a very very strong competitive market for the good credits.
So the backlog looks strong.
We do compete for loans and even though spreads may be tightening a little bit on new loans they're replacing loans with lower spreads that are running off.
And the story here for the bank is really the runoff as people paying down loans and that rate is still staying high and when that comes down we hope with these production levels to be adding to our loan balances in the bank.
The other big story there obviously is continued credit quality improvement.
I think you're seeing it in the industry but as we reflect back at Raymond James we've had well I think well-managed credit vis--vis our industry and you're seeing those adjustments really flow through in this quarter.
So with that that's kind of the highlights of our four major segments.
I'm going to turn it over to Jeff and then at the end I'll come back and talk about what I think the outlook looks like.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
I guess the over-arching comment which is most appropriate for this quarter is that with some equity market wind at our back some of the operating leverage that we've been telling people for years exists within our segments particularly in this case PCG and Asset Management actually did come home to roost.
I'm going to focus on some of the -- a couple of statistics that aren't readily apparent from all the information that we sent out in the press release or are not disclosed there but kind of a precursor to some of the things that would be in the Q when it gets filed.
One is the comp ratio which there has been a lot a focus on.
It actually did come down in the quarter.
We had some that's not unusual I think when we have record net revenues but it did drop below 68%.
But its still hovering in the high 60s 67.8% this quarter versus 68.4% last quarter.
I think as we pointed out last time I don't expect to see any major movements in there as long as our business mix stays similar.
Until we get some help from interest earnings at which time -- which doesn't have a lot of variable comp associated with it at that time I would think our comp ratio would drift down a couple of hundred basis points possibly from here.
Another factor is recurring revenues.
Last year last fiscal year by comparison our total recurring revenues were 54% of total revenues.
And for this quarter not much different 53%.
So we're in a lot of transaction-related things that was still a lot of recurring revenues driving the revenue stream a lot of fee-based type accounts et cetera.
Paul touched on the asset management performance fees.
I think that's an important factor to note that always -- it's indicative first of all that our performance has held up very well in asset management but it does have a tendency to distort the December quarter slightly relative to the asset levels.
Within the commission and fees line of $534 million for the quarter of that $104 million was institutional and $430 million was Private Client Group.
But important and equally important again to me is within the Private Client Group 57% of their $430 million was recurring which includes basically fee-based accounts and trails on funds and annuities.
So again indicative of the strong equity market we have seen.
I do want to touch on net interest income for a moment.
It was $88 million for the quarter up from $78 million in the preceding quarter.
We had been running along in the $75 million to $80 million per quarter range for some time now.
As pointed out in the footnotes to the bank information there was a correction of an interest accrual at the bank which effectively added $6.4 million to net interest income this particular quarter.
So exclusive of that net interest income was about $81.5 million which is indicative of two things: one that the bank is maintaining a high spread and actually slightly growing loans again; second so the bank had about $3 million of improved interest earnings this quarter from last quarter and the balance was in PCG as you get an upward-moving equity market we start to generally see a slight uptick in margin debits and we have seen that versus a year ago.
The bank error that we talked about the interest accrual catch up if you will on residential side added about nine basis points to the interest spread for the quarter.
But that spread stays quite strong even with that taken out we have been guiding people toward 3.25% to 3.30% range for spread.
It looks now like it's given where the market is and the loans we've been adding it's probably going to be more like 3.40-ish going forward here for guidance.
Expanding a little bit on the bank the biggest surprise if you want to call it that or the difference between actual and analyst projections I think was the loan loss provision which came in a little over $11 million for the quarter which is the lowest since March 2008.
So it's been a while since we've seen that.
It's nice to see the improving credit environment.
There were some loan upgrades and things that factored into that.
But by and large our rate of additional problem loans surfacing has gone down dramatically.
So it's -- our total criticized loans are down 37% year-over-year.
Nonperforming assets were down $25 million during the quarter.
All the credit metrics are looking better and better as we get quarter after quarter without anymore hiccups in the economy here.
The only other thing I'll talk about right here at the bank has to do with their capital ratios.
We did pay a $75 million dividend in November from the bank to the holding company.
We had a grant and got regulatory approval to do that.
Even after that though the bank's risk-based capital ratio at the end of December was 13.2% to the extent that the bank keeps generating earnings at these levels without a lot of net loan growth to need that capital they may become for a period of time a regular dividend that are back to the parent company.
The only other thing I'll say is kind of non-recurring.
It's non-recurring for the rest of the year at least but it occurs every December quarter is that we end up reversing some of the over-accrued bonus pools that we've had around the firm.
This year that number amounted to about $7.7 million.
That has served to help the comp ratio of course.
That's similar to the amount that it was in the prior year.
But obviously that's a fact that it won't be there every quarter.
So those trying to look at our run rate which I know is something that people focus on certainly the adjustment at the bank and the bonus reversal is between those two things it's $0.05 or $0.06 of non-recurring type items in this particular quarter but still would have been even without those things a record quarter for us.
And where the rubber meets the road in terms of our own analysis of our results is a return on equity.
For this quarter it was 13.9% which is pretty impressive without the help of the traditional interest spreads which as we've talked about before could mean somewhere between 80 million and 100 million pretax to us when rates start hitting up by 100 basis points or more and that 13.9% is contrasted to 12.2% last quarter and only 8.3% a year ago.
So we're I think pretty pleased with the magnitude of that number.
We'd surely love to be back in our 15% plus target range but had been somewhat resigned to the fact that that wasn't going to happen until we have the traditional interest spreads we certainly made good progress towards that goal this quarter.
Thanks Jeff.
Quickly on kind of just the outlook and of course when you look at the outlook the biggest question is the economy.
Certainly it has a major factor on our business.
Our view is that we are on a slow but choppy growth and we'll see small corrections that we believe as the economy will continue to slowly grow and recover.
So the upside is going to be determined partly by how the economy grows and the reflection into the capital markets.
And certainly we always have to look at our correction or downside.
We continue to manage costs.
We went -- '09 wasn't that far away that remember the big corrections can happen.
And even though we came to that with an 8% return on equity it wasn't a time we enjoyed.
But if you look at the businesses really all of the indicators are positive.
Given a slowly improving market I think the $0.65 given Jeff said $0.05 or $0.06 of unusual items is high but we still see a lot of positive momentum kind of off a lower base.
In PCG our assets will continue to grow at the market and I think as clients move into equities again that trend continues should have a positive effect on our business that we're still very focused on recruiting.
But we're not going to overpay for financial advisors and we can't do in markets where people aren't be very aggressive and markets where we believe people are maybe overpaying a little more cautious and we're willing to go through the cycle.
Having said that we're very focused on kind of recruiting but the big driver will be the shift to equities and really driving our business.
In the bank side the loan backlog looks strong.
The big question is run off I mean we'll continue I think to push loan production within our credit limits.
We're very very focused on credit quality and high quality credits.
There's a lot of competition for them and the question is as we continue to book those loans how much will run off? The credit quality is clearly improving.
I think the provision's approved because the loan quality's approved and I don't know what will move that except as we start adding more loans and once again though anything can happen to an individual credit given our size it can affect the provision.
In the capital markets ECM has a solid backlog both in underwriting and in M&amp;A.
Canada's been surprisingly strong and looks continually a good backlog.
We'll continue to recruit to build our ECM business and believe it has a solid outlook.
In our fixed income we had some bumps in the quarter with trading profits but they look like they are rebounding more to traditional levels.
But as you know in that market any book can happen.
That's one that's hard to predict.
But we think it's well managed and well positioned.
Asset management as their leverage they control costs very well and as long as we continue on inflows and market improvements should continue to be positive in our outlook.
So if the market improves we feel very good about our positioning and earnings.
We don't take it for granted.
We still have to continue to recruit and build this business which we think we're well positioned to do.
We have a strong team and given the reasonable economy we have a good look on the outlook again if you take out the one-time items from a little lower level.
We'd like to say we have a couple of more on one-time items in our pocket for the coming quarters.
But we really don't know if we got any more...
But they haven't.
So with that let us go ahead and open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Devin Ryan Sandler ONeill.
Just trying to reconcile the strengths in the commission and fee line.
It looks like December if you just look at December on the month alone was a record quarter and just given that a lot of the fees are billed upfront and that industry trading activity levels seem to fall off a bit in the month.
I'm just trying to figure out what happened in December and why it was such a strong month.
Versus the preceding quarter there was a $16 million increase in institutional commissions largely driven by the number of syndicate participations and equity underwriting activity and they also come out of our analysts' best picks for the UIT that we come out with every year that drove $5 million in commissions.
So we had just an exceptional quarter institutionally and the balance of that increase was in Private Client Group and that's just the strength of a rising market.
You know we had a jump start when the fee billings on October 1 were about 5% or 6% 3% or 4% 5% or 6% higher whatever they were from the July 1 billings and we have that same dynamic incidentally going forward where we have about 10% higher market billings January 1 than we had on October 1.
And it's again as Paul mentioned it's clients shifting back to equities where we're seeing some of that.
They're obviously nowhere near the levels that they were three years ago in terms of household ownership of equities.
But that drives a lot of business and the funds where we get bigger trails and some of the managed accounts et cetera.
So I think it's the manifestation of some of the unused capacity that we had within PCG as the markets recovered.
Devin I think that people kind of focus by the compare of commission lines a lot of the institutional business.
In the overdue that business is tough and it's still challenging but a lot of this is driven by PCG the movement to equities and certainly underwriting and syndicate some stuff [indiscernible].
But there was nothing unusual in the quarter.
I'm proud to say beyond our Analysts' Best Picks which is probably a $5 million type item.
So that is a December -- that's when you get paid for that in December? Or I'm just trying to understand December and I understand that obviously with the beginning of period asset levels up that that would help each month in the quarter but just...
That's in December of every year we do it.
That's in December their Best Picks for the coming year.
And then just also I guess the SEC is going to deliver a report to Congress tomorrow on their results and recommendations just related to the study I think that's going to outline the extent that broker-dealers going to be held to fiduciary standards.
Just wanted to get any early insights you guys might be expecting or if you just have any expectations in general or on the suggested changes related to what might happen.
So...
I think Devin it's still pretty well an unknown.
There's been kind of a moving market moving controversy between registered investment advisors and our industry and what defines what.
We don't see any dramatic change for the business but I think the ultimate deliverable and even in some of these other findings that are out there's not an answer to a lot of them.
I mean it gets down to what regulator but then what rules are going to come down from whatever regulator body gets some of the pieces and our take is on all this legislation shouldn't dramatically change our business or positioning but it's going to increase costs compliance costs.
And I think that's going to be the net net result and whether that protects investors long term or not well leave that to others.
So we don't see a dramatic impact on our business.
We've been involved with it.
We'll see what really comes out when it all settles out not just when the positions rolled out but the rules and what does that mean and we just think that net-net is compliance costs will go up.
And then just lastly on the non-comp expenses outside of the bank loan loss provisions they increased 6% and in my take it just looks like higher business activity levels higher revenues probably drove that.
But is there anything seasonal in there or anything else we should be looking at? I don't think so.
No.
Looking down the -- it can't be a big dollar number.
There's nothing unusual in our numbers there.
Your next question is from the line of Hugh Miller with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a follow-up on the question with regards to how strong the December commissions were in the month.
Would you say that there was year-end tax loss planning and maybe some harvesting there of tax losses that were kind of maybe driving up December commissions relative to November in the prior few months? Or is it really just kind of -- some of the things you mentioned with regards to the Best Picks and just the shift in interest in equities and retail investors? I don't think we see a big seasonality in terms of the year-end tax transaction-related movement.
But I think it was again and this was somewhat the explanation in September as well we had just a busy underwriting calendar in the month.
We've looked through it Hugh I mean and we didn't see any unusual items outside of the ones we've mentioned.
So again I think the underwriting calendar does impact it.
We had a very strong month and I think the big movement for us is always the PCG group and the movement to equities does push it there.
But we can't point at anything that looks really unusual.
LLC</strong> And you guys I think you've mentioned in the presentation that you were seeing broker production levels if I had this right up somewhere around 3% to 4% on a sequential basis.
I guess is that right? And then the other just being -- where would you say that they are relative to historical norms for production? They're getting closer they're not there yet.
But I think we have a number of factors -- in our recruiting over the last few years we've recruited much higher producing financial advisors that's historic.
So I think as you look at productivity on this account is relatively flat but if you look at the average financial advisors the production level is higher historically and we're getting closer to that historic level.
But we still have some room.
And I think just to give you some definition I think in RJA the employees' side I think we peaked if I remember right at about 515 000 average gross.
We're currently up back at 490 000.
So as Paul said we're getting close.
And we've got probably on average people with a higher trailing 12 than we had back when we set the previous record.
So there's still some room to run.
But it's getting back toward records for us.
LLC</strong> One question with regards to -- obviously you made some commentary on the pickup in competition on the recruiting side that you're not going to go out there and kind of pay up for advisors above and beyond what you're comfortable with.
But I guess given the potential for competition to remain somewhat high how confident are you with the company's ability in fiscal '11 and beyond to kind of grow advisor head count? Well I think that our goal is to grow advisor head count.
I think we can and probably will for the year.
But I mean our view and we reiterate it all the time is we target 15% growth from the PCG segment and sometimes in '09 we'd say it's a factor of three items: recruiting a 5%; productivity a 5%; market of 5%; and '09 we got no market.
There's no productivity it was recruiting.
And this year we're getting a lot of help from the market and productivity and recruiting is down but we're not going to do uneconomic deals to make the numbers look better short term.
And we've ridden through the cycle it's been historic Raymond James.
And I have no intention at all of changing that.
So if people want to buy an uneconomic what we do is on uneconomic deals we're not going to participate and we'll wait until as the market always does they get economic again.
Having said that our inquiries if you look at January are way up now that's very early in a recruiting cycle inquiries versus closing.
But we think we're doing the right thing and we'll continue to recruit and try to grow the head count I think we can but I just don't know how much.
LLC</strong> And the last question I have just with regards to the bank you guys are obviously mentioning that you're kind of seeing a pickup in interest in loan originations at the bank and obviously the headwind is the runoff and the portfolio but can you just talk about -- if are there certain loan types that you're seeing more of an interest at the bank at this point? Hugh it's Steve Raney.
We highlighted that we had a pretty significant increase in C&amp;I which has been our focus our commercial and industrial loans versus commercial real estate in the quarter.
We actually grew that segment of our business almost $200 million in outstandings during the quarter.
And in the C&amp;I bucket it's been rather broad across a wide cross section of industries.
So no one or two industry is really driving that.
It's been very broad.
Although it does align itself well with our business units inside investment banking energy health care.
We've done some business with the REITs as well as well as some of the other industry groups we're focused on telecommunications and in some of the consumer areas as well.
The Residential business has been very challenging.
Paul mentioned that we had the largest quarter in the bank's history in terms of loan closings on the origination side.
We are actively trying to grow our own originations in our mortgage banking area.
We've not been able -- we have grown or actually purchased some pools but it's been relatively small.
We've been very disciplined with our approach to that business.
We're not willing to buy pools of loans without strong buyback language.
So I think that over the time you're going to see a higher percentage of the bank's balance sheet in C&amp;I commercial loans versus commercial real estate and residential real estate.
Next question is from the line of Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> In terms of the growth in other revenues can you tell us sort of what was driving that? The growth in other revenues quarter-on-quarter? There's a kind of an anomaly thing with when we have OTTI costs at the bank they're a contra revenue item.
They were a lot lower this quarter.
So that obviously makes the other revenue number higher.
The other thing is we continue to convert more and more mutual fund families to the omnibus arrangement that we've got and we get paid much more per account than we do in the previous networking-type arrangement.
So that will continue to grow as we continue to convert more funds.
I can't tell you what percentage we are as a way through and all the fund families aren't big enough to convert.
But that'll continue to -- that's a recurring type item that will be there going forward.
I think that was what $3.5 million number going forward number like that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> So is this sort of low 30s number a decent way to think about the other line going forward? Let's see.
Probably.
It looks like it at this point.
I mean I'm looking down and figure there's nothing particularly unusual.
There's nothing in the Proprietary Capital write-ups and write-downs going there that's a little lumpy.
But it wasn't a big deal this quarter but it can be so on a run rate I would say...
Probably right.
Probably 30-ish is probably reasonable.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And then in terms of the investment banking can you just give us a revenue breakdown between M&amp;A and what you did in the underwriting side? Domestically it was about $17 million of each for this quarter.
And within Canada it was about $16 million but I don't have the breakdown between the two.
So I think it's more and more weighted to underwriting so probably something like 60-40 underwriting and M&amp;A.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And then just lastly can you give us a sense for how much of the increase in AUM came from inflows versus market appreciation? There was about $1.9 billion of net inflows.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And is that sort of similar to what we saw last quarter? Probably a little stronger than the preceding quarter.
We had a lot more market help this quarter.
Of course we had a lot in September month market appreciation was $4 billion number.
So it was a big help.
I don't remember what last quarter's inflows were.
I don't have that in front of me.
Your next question is from the line of Daniel Harris with Goldman Sachs.
I was wondering if I could come back to one of the questions that was posed earlier.
I think maybe about the trajectory of the quarter on the commission line.
It looked like that the December month not the quarter was really really strong.
And I guess my question is was that really driven by a lot of activity in the muni market? I know that it was very volatile and it seems like some of the volumes that we could track were very high and I was just wondering if you could put some color around that.
We get a lot of mutual fund trails at the end of the quarter.
And then you got underwriting activity and Best Picks so there is some lumpiness at the end of the quarter so I don't know...
A lot of the trail funds we try to accrue on unpaid but we're estimating as we don't really know what they're going to end up being.
When we get quarterly payments of trueing them up.
That's happened the last two quarters.
So that added about I'm guessing about $3 million above and beyond what our accrual rate was in the December month.
We had a strong underwriting month as I'd mentioned before in terms of number of transactions.
Not all leads that we have to be leading just so that we participate in as well so that drives a lot of volume both institutionally and Private Client Group and then the Best Picks UIT that we do in December for the coming year was about $5 million commission number as well.
So those three things all happened in December.
Tell me about something you guys announced really late in the year the Howe Barnes deal.
What was it about that transaction? As far as I can remember one of the first you guys have done in a while that really attracted you guys to it.
How did that actually come about? And should we expect that you guys should be looking to do smaller things in the securities side outside of this? I know that you've thinking about the asset management side more in the recent past.
Yes I think as we look at growth given our size that again we're great believers in organic growth so we'll continue to recruit one by one because as you do that you're pretty comfortable that people are joining you for the right reasons and there's a good cultural fit.
But having said that I think we're getting much more proactive and talking about really our corporate development function what we look for what I call niche acquisitions.
So Howe Barnes acquisition again added to our financial institution space a place that we thought that we had a decent practice but certainly weren't at the levels of some of our other practices in terms of the size and scope.
So it added great capability.
We really liked Dan and Bill actually introduced to us through the Private Client Group through talking to some of their advisors and we met.
And it was just a great fit.
It fits our business again our fixed income folks were great supporters of the transaction because of synergy and we'll continue to look for hopefully more systematically niche acquisitions which I would put The Lane Berry acquisition which really helped us in our M&amp;A practice.
Howe Barnes which we think will give us more critical mass in our financial institutions group with great people and look at other areas in all of our businesses that we can do that.
Again we're not a big believer in big acquisitions because of both the cost the cultural implications the integration but acquisitions niche acquisitions we would hope to do more of if we can find them if the culture fits and if the price is reasonable and if we can get those criteria and they fit the strategy that we will hopefully we'll do more of.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Lipper [ph] with Lipper Advisors.
I'm a little curious thinking long term.
Assuming for the moment that you don't do any foreign acquisitions at what point will your international activities be a meaningful contribution to your earnings? I'm thinking out like five years.
Would they be 10% 20% some normalized period out there? Yes I think if you look at institutional sales they're already at $30 million gross.
I mean they're already a factor in our business.
But we will continue to look at growing our business in Europe organically and in South America.
But having said that I think that if you look at the real number drivers international become more important and we're very committed to it.
But we have plenty of opportunities in North America and the U.S.
and Canada and those numbers I think will continue to be the predominant growth numbers even as we invest more in Europe and South America.
But let's assume for the moment you're not considering Canada international because we clearly have a big commitment there.
I would say that Europe is already a material factor in our Institutional business.
We have several independent contractors sales offices over there and some trading and research operations.
What you see in our segment presentation as Emerging Markets is a small number and if that's what you're referring to we go a lot a little more gingerly into the Emerging Markets space than we do in the developed markets and if the opportunities don't present themselves that may never become a meaningful part of our business.
Would it be useful at some point to at least in your commentary aggregate your international activities and for the moment include Canada include your institutional sales overseas as well as the office space activities? I think it's in the 10-K if you go...
By country.
By country but is that by where the client is or where the office is? That's by where we're located where our sales person is located or our producer is located.
Your next question is from the line of Steve Stelmach FBR Capital Markets.
My question is on the rate sensitivity to just -- you sort of mentioned the $80 million to $100 million of your pretax leverage at the higher rates.
It's been out there for I guess for a few quarters you mentioned it yet margin balances are up call it 12% year-over-year.
Are you seeing any sort of incremental benefit from those higher margin balances yet? Or is the level of absolute rates just not really moving a needle yet on the broker side of it? Yes to the extent that margin debit has increased just as bank loans would increase then we'll see some increased interest earnings from that.
But when I talk about the $80 million to $100 million I'm really talking about the spread on cash client cash balances that we just are turning around and then deploying in overnight investment-type activities or in our own bank et cetera.
That dynamic hasn't changed.
We haven't really seen cash balances change much if anything they've increased a little bit.
So we haven't seen a big massive deployment back into the market of cash balances.
That $80 million to $100 million the reason I give a range is because it's depending on how much is in cash at any point in time.
But to the extent that loan balances either at the bank or the brokerage firm increase that will definitely benefit interest earnings even without any change in rates.
You are seeing the benefit of that those loan balances or the margin balances increasing to some degree? Yes rounded to a $1 million this quarter to the Private Client Group.
And then on the bank is it fair to say it's still fee liability-sensitive business? Steve we would characterize it -- we're really more asset-sensitive in terms of -- and that business mix has not changed at all.
I mean we are funding the portfolio predominantly with floating rate deposits.
We do have almost all the corporate loans or floating rate.
The residential loans are almost exclusively 5 1 adjustable rate loans that have typically a three to three and a half year average life.
So we do have some interest rate risk but it's relatively low and manageable.
We've done some hedging in the past and we monitor that very closely on a monthly basis on a formal very formal approach to the interest rate risk management.
So...
People need to remember the flexibility we have in the bank on the funding side.
We can adjust deposits almost overnight and so most institutions have to worry about that where we have the luxury of being able to sweep deposits into the bank or sweep them into other banks through our bank sweep program.
I see interest hovering around this $80 million to $85 million range for a while until either balances take a huge jump in terms of loan balances or until interest rates start moving and then we'll see a dramatic and get back over the well over the $100 million a quarter where we had seen it before.
And that's even with your 340 basis points of NIM guidance? Yes.
Your last question is from the line of Douglas Sipkin with Ticonderoga.
I just wanted to come back to the provision expense maybe Steve could chime in just a little bit.
Obviously a bigger drop off than I expected and could you maybe and I apologize if you have given it I jumped on late can you give us how we got there from where we were running at? I mean I know I saw MBAs decline but you guys are starting to -- the loan balances did grow a little bit so I'm just trying to get the sense of how do we get this decline this quarter and what sort of the outlook is right now.
Sure.
I'm trying to reconcile that back for you.
We've had a low number of downgrades relative to upgrades.
We did resolve some of our largest problem loans.
So actually our largest nonperforming loan was resolved in the quarter.
We had another problem loan that was fully paid in the quarter that freed up reserves if you look at that on an isolated basis.
So in effect our charge-offs and our additions to reserves offset each other approximately.
So it was really a reflection of improving credit trends kind of across the board and then our residential portfolio has really stabilized in the last couple of quarters.
We haven't seen dramatic improvement.
The improvements have been nominally better the last couple of quarters.
So all of those factors led to the lowest provision expense in a couple of years.
And then maybe a question for Paul.
It seems like you'd have to be blind not to see you guys are doing better in investment banking.
How much of that is hires? How much of that is maybe you guys are finding better leverage points with the commercial bank and the investment bank? How much is the environment.
I guess it's a little bit of everything.
We've continued to hire.
The Lane Berry acquisition and M&amp;A is starting to really come into fruition.
That always takes time when you do an acquisition both between the market and the integration of very good people.
I think we're getting payoffs.
We continue to hire bankers.
The market has been pretty strong in sectors where we're strong in both the REITs downstream energy business health care have continued to produce very very well and also as a recovery and the capital markets open up more to the middle market companies it's also going to benefit us or position us.
It's kind of hard for us to compete on Fortune 100 business.
And as you know as the markets continues to open up and allow more companies in then we become a stronger and stronger player in terms of being able to be the lead book runner on deals.
So it's a factor of all of them and again I think the outlook looks good but given the markets stay open and they continue to trend it open it should be a good outlook.
ROE just below 14%.
I know you guys raised the dividend last quarter.
You did an acquisition.
It does sort of feel like you guys are starting to use that excess a little bit more.
Should we continue to think probably bolt-on acquisitions? I know 5x historically haven't that big of a focus unless stock really got a lot lower maybe just update us on that.
Yes as you know we've had a pretty consistent dividend payout policy except for the board.
If earnings go up my guess will probably be dividend within the range that's up to the board and we're not big on stock buybacks unless we feel like there's no use for money and we would like to systematically do deals like Howe Barnes and Lane Berry if we could systematically find them.
So the big caveat is we would like to do more were going to put processes in place hopefully do more.
But we're very very disciplined in terms of -- as Steven said we're not going to do it just before some growth number and we're very focused on that return on equity.
So I think with any help with interest rates they would be in their historic earnings this quarter return on equity of 15% outside of that.
We're going to stick to the fundamentals.
So hopefully we could do more deals like Howe Barnes but I can't say we have a ton in the pipeline.
We happened to look at a lot last year and found one that we closed on and we'll continue to more systematically look.
And if we find them we'll close on them and hopefully invest some of the cash as we build it.
It also seems like non-comp expense can seem to be pretty well under control.
I mean just generally with the revenue levels you probably expect to see a little bit more.
I mean are you guys doing some stuff internally to get more efficient or track stuff a little bit better to maybe kind of save a buck here save a buck there where it adds up to a little bit on the non-comp side? That we do everyday.
I would say Doug that we are very sensitized to it after what we've gone through over the last couple of years.
We don't have a lot of fat in this organization and we never really have.
So I think that what we're seeing here is a reluctance to build expenses to meet those revenue levels and we're making sure expenditures are really very very necessary before we undertake them.
If you look at the expense levels we have bolstered IT spending a little bit it's very focused on where we spend money in things that are critical and we try to keep very tight on the operations side.
Yet if you look at advisors satisfaction and stuff I mean I think people rate us just kind about unusually high in service.
So we tried to manage cost but in the downturn we didn't cut the back really the support areas in order to keep our service level high.
So we tend to be more even but even in that markets tend to be watch our cost too because we know markets come down.
So I think again as Jeff said you'll see the comp ratios without interest increases in the same maybe hopefully down a little with volume but as the businesses grow that are less comp sensitive or earnings grow like in net interest earnings that will bring the comp ratio down to put it more historic levels.
As well as all the other expense ratios.
There's not a lot of expenses with improved interest expense.
So we have very little control over that.
There are no further questions.
Great.
Well we appreciate you joining the call and we'll get back to work.
Have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from the line of Devin Ryan with Sandler O'Neill.
The net financial advisor headcount declined modestly again.
And it's been down about 1% from last year.
I just want to see if I could get a little bit more detail on the reduction this quarter? Were they independent or traditional FAs? And then any additional color you can provide on the current recruiting landscape including I guess the pipeline would be very helpful? Good morning Devin.
This is Chet.
As you point out it's a tough environment for some people in the business.
We're seeing that there continues to be some fallout of financial advisors at the low end.
We are focused on this intensely given the interest that you and others have expressed in it as we always have been focused on it.
But we're starting to drill down into the numbers and we're seeing that the people that we're losing are people who were doing considerably less production than average.
And as you might imagine most of that is happening in the independent contractor space where the expenses fall to the financial advisors.
So you can understand the economics drive them to the edge quicker than people producing more or are having their expenses paid.
And so the logic you would expect is holding up as we drill down into it and that's where most of the losses are coming.
That said on the other side the recruiting part as investor confidence is restored and the public comes back into the business which we're seeing and that's driving our assets and that's driving our revenues it's also driving demand for financial advisors.
So competition in the recruiting part of the equation is intense.
And we're getting our share but everybody is seeing less movement overall.
So therefore less people are being recruited in total and competition for the ones that are is pretty high level.
And we're not going to pay top dollar.
We're going to hold out for the people that come for the right reasons and will stay with us and be good parts of our organization.
And so we're not seeing the kind of inflows that you would like to see given the continued deterioration at the low end.
But that said it's not a wipeout.
I mean we're actually seeing recruiting levels that are reflective of what we saw prior to the meltdown and the inordinate amounts of high numbers of people moving in '08 and '09.
So I would say it's a tough recruiting business but it's not unusual.
And we're getting our share and we're frankly optimistic that the pipeline is good.
And we'll continue to produce at these rates.
I think you will start to see less fallout at the bottom as business levels pick up and those people who were maybe close to an edge get back into solid footing in terms of their revenue flows in their businesses.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then I guess you just touched on this but just want to get a sense of what you're seeing from retail clients.
We have been hearing that they're slowly moving back into riskier assets and allocating more capital equity products.
So just when you think about where we are in terms of stages of them doing that I mean is this still the very early stage of maybe that moved back into equities? And if you just look at the call it $275 billion of client assets has that mix changed dramatically in terms of two higher fee-paying products? I think we're seeing Devin what the industry's seeing.
And so you see people slowly returning into equities and reducing their fixed income exposure.
So we still have high cash levels maybe as a percentage diminishing a little bit as the equity values go up.
Investors are being cautious.
So they're moving into equities they're moving into a little more risk product but it's not a massive move.
So if they get reinvested to where they were it would be a big uptick for us.
But probably if you look back people might have been overinvested in equities.
Or if you look at the aging population you see a shift more into a broader set of fixed income and equity balance.
So there's certainly room to return so it's just early cycles.
And the question is how much where will they end up? It's hard to say what inning we're in because we don't where the end is.
I also think that the game has changed a bit because we've seen -- we crossed over that magic date that they all told us about for years where the baby boomers were retiring at the rate of 10 000 a day.
And so the flows are on.
And I think that as people do come back into the equity markets they may not come back into the same segment of the equity markets that they once were in.
I think dividend-paying stocks and revenue or income-producing equities will be favored over some of the high alpha growth sort of strategies that entailed more risk as people are more concerned about retirement planning.
There's still room the question is how much though.
And then just lastly I apologize.
I missed some of the detail but can you just repeat the size of the unusual items that showed up in -- I guess I'm assuming that all showed up in other expenses? There was some in other and some in data comp.
But there was about a compendium of about $10 million of I won't call them nonrecurring but identifiable items which predominantly were legal expense and some asset valuation write-downs and private equity that we're participants in.
Okay.
And how much I guess was in the Other? About $10 million was in the Other.
It was probably $1.5 million of mailing cost that are seasonal in data comp communications.
Great okay.
Thanks guys.
You guys went a long way -- actually in answering my question before I asked on the Private Client Group and  the pretax earnings there.
But if you could give us a little more color that pretax operating margins historically the past couple of quarters have been running between call it 9% 10.5% or so.
At this elevated revenue run rate how should we think about pretax margins in a leverage once you get beyond sort of the noise of these onetime or seasonal issues? I think like we've said I think the six-month result is pretty indicative of where we should be.
There was noise back and forth between the first and second quarters.
We do some internal allocations that affect segments a little bit and things like that.
Then we had some of these nonrecurring items going both directions in each quarter.
So I think if you want a sense going forward I think I would point you to the six-month results in that segment.
So something between that 9% and 10% sort of pretax operating margin seems about right? Okay.
And then can you give some color on the legal accruals that you've mentioned? Nothing nothing systemic.
Just a couple of issues that came up.
And that was several added together that wasn't just one item.
Yes just a couple of items that came up.
And they know they do come up from time to time.
And sometimes they fit in the quarter and sometimes they spread out.
Got it okay.
And then just on the bank provision.
I know you guys have never given guidance on this number but it kind of felt like it was settling into the low to mid-teens number.
Obviously credit's coming in I would argue better than expected.
Any color on what sort of outlook there? Well hey Steve.
This is Steve Raney.
Obviously we had the lowest provision expense in charge-off quarter in a couple of years.
The thing that is a very positive sign is the number of delinquent residential loans came down quite a bit.
That's the second quarter in a row we've seen some reductions.
We actually -- the dollar amount of the loans that are now delinquent in the residential portfolio there were 314 loans at the end of December.
Now it's down to 295.
So we're seeing more activity also in just the foreclosure of pipeline and some short sales.
So we're pretty encouraged that we're starting to see some positive momentum in the residential portfolio.
We had a very good quarter in terms of just the number of upgrades versus the number of downgrades in the corporate portfolio.
As Jeff alluded to in terms of our total criticized  loans they were up slightly but down in a big way year-over-year and year-to-date down like Jeff said nearly 30%.
So all that -- adding all that together we're pretty optimistic in seeing a lot of positive trends  in credit.
And I would only hedge to that by saying as you know Steve we're -- it's all very lumpy portfolio and you're subject to one loan going on some type of nonaccrual status.
When you've got -- I think we've only got about $50 million of nonaccrual commercial loans at this point.
So that could be dramatically impacted by just one loan.
Can you just remind us what the average loan size  on the commercial side is? Yes it's actually come down.
And I would kind of split it up Steve.
Our average commercial real estate loan is less than $15 million probably in the $13.5 million to $14 million range.
And our average commercial loan is slightly less than $20 million.
And [indiscernible] I'm kind of hoping the provision goes up.
We're trying to grow loans.
Yes grow loans and...
Part of this with the slightly shrinking portfolio.
Right.
Up as a function of asset growth not as the function of credit quality right? Absolutely.
And then lastly any update on auction-rate securities? Continue and Nuveen has been fairly active and the balance is -- customers down significantly.
Again I think $360 million at the end of the quarter $360 million so we've come along way from over $2 billion.
And we continue to talk with regulators trying to get it behind us but the balance seems to be going down.
And news on most of the individual securities we're getting positive news in traction.
So we're still working on it and like it to go away but it's heading in the right direction.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Could you just give us a couple of comments maybe on some of the outlook you think for retail activity? I mean it looked like just looking at your numbers sort of backing into a March number that sort of commissions and fees per day were down maybe about 10% from February which is a pretty strong one.
I'm just wondering if you're seeing that kind of trend continue into April.
And I know you've said the retail investors are a little more engaged but just looking for a little bit more color there? I think the trends in the first six months again looking at both quarters have been good.
We see the business solid and a lot of it's depending on the market.
So I wouldn't look at any one month commission trend to see anything.
And once again they've got a little bit of a running start with assets under management being higher than our April 1 billings than they were on January 1.
There's also a continued flow of retail-oriented investment banking products coming out that are augmenting some of those numbers.
So I don't sense the softening that you maybe perceiving now.
I don't see it either.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then your principal transaction line was again pretty strong.
I think you'd commented that some of it was driven by good results in the Muni business.
I mean it's been fairly volatile.
It looks like issuance is down substantially.
I mean is that a sustainable trend you think for the remainder of the year? Is that something we should just expect to be pretty...
If issuance stays down it stays volatile sustainable.
So it's actually good for -- to trading profits in that kind of environment.
So if the environment steadies you'd expect less.
On the taxable side certainly it's way down.
Its spread came in and you have heavy new issues.
So it just depends on the market trends.
So I can't tell you it's sustainable as long as the market stays a little bit volatile.
It helps us in that space.
So I can't forecast or tell you what it's going to be this quarter.
And frankly that's probably the hardest item to predict for us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And then just lastly on the bank I know you guys have said it's been tough to grow loans.
And I think in the past you talked a little bit about sort of new product areas you may be looking at.
Is there any update on that or any thoughts on where you could go to upsize your core business to try to grow the loan portfolio? We're looking at a number of programs in multiple fronts really working with our PCG and ECM businesses.
So the PCG area and even outside of it we're really ramping up our own mortgage origination program in the bank so both for the market and to service our financial advisors.
We are focusing.
We've been hiring looking to hire lenders within our ECM business to focus on our Capital Markets clients because the quality of those loans and performance has been very very strong.
Again we've been aligning more making more calls in those clients and also looking at a nonpurpose lending product which I think most other people have to roll out again with our PCG group.
Again that performance of that product was very strong in the downturn.
And so the programs are all under way.
We're working on them.
Steve I don't know if you want to give any more update or color but they're coming and in progress.
Yes just a couple of things.
We've actually now made a couple of loans to Canadian-based companies that are clients of Raymond James Limited are Capital Markets clients of the firm in Canada.
So we're looking to expand that business to support our clients.
I would also just offer that the area that's been the biggest challenge.
Historically we were buyers of pools of whole mortgage loans residential mortgage loans which was always an attractive asset if you can buy it right.
And if you're able to do the credit due diligence I would say that that business while it's not really represents -- it doesn't represent core clients obviously to the firm.
That business has been more challenging defined new product to buy.
And that portfolio has shrunk over the last couple of years.
And if you take that out the rest of our business has actually grown quite substantially including doing more business with clients at Raymond James.
So that will -- we're looking to expand that the linkage with our Equity Capital Markets business and also Private Client Group as Paul just alluded to the rollout of the securities-based nonpurpose lending product later on this summer.
We did -- we hired a healthcare industry banker this year and we just recently this last quarter hired a senior syndications banker as we're starting to have conversations with clients regarding co-managing and ultimately lead managing their syndications.
So those are some of the efforts that are underway to grow the bank's loan portfolio.
But nothing that's not outside of our existing businesses.
We really -- we want to stick to our core competencies at this point.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And just a follow-up I mean in terms of ramping up origination are there other expected increase in costs associated with that? Or are you guys pretty well scaled for that right now? No there have been some increase in expenses in terms of HR -- hired some additional talent our own mortgage banking operation.
We actually -- this most recent six months had the highest loan production in terms of mortgage originations that the bank has ever had as a result of adding that talent and adding capacity obviously adding some of these new bankers the industry bankers.
But that being said our efficiency ratio is still one of the lowest in the industries.
And I think that those investments in capacity and talent are appropriate to grow the business and also manage the risk of the portfolio.
I mean there's clearly some upfront investment to get -- launch these new endeavor but they're pretty rapid paybacks in all of them.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks for my answering my questions.
I want to touch on the Emerging Market segment.
You guys actually have shown some pretty nice growth.
It's a really good number this quarter.
I was wondering a what's sort of driving that and b can that type of growth be sustained? Are you doing anything different than you've done before? Well I think it's again a little bit of a cyclical phenomenon.
We've had a very good business in Argentina.
That was the good and the bad news because nothing was being done there for a long period of time and we had two fairly large transactions there which we led in banking investment banking.
And in Brazil as we've ramped up although we've had -- ramping up on expenses again we've had a little bit of traction there.
So they've all hit this quarter.
So I think you're seeing a pretty big number this quarter based on the past.
[indiscernible] my comment.
No and I'm saying I don't think it's -- I wouldn't say it's a ramp-up.
We have some big fees that have hit this quarter and probably a little higher than usual.
Fair enough.
I wanted to come back to that 200 basis point improvement in ROE that you mentioned with higher interest rates assumptions.
So as you think about that when rates move up from sort of an attachment perspective do you guys retain a majority of the interest on the cash balances and/or how much do you pay out to the brokers in terms of what they're doing? We -- our assumption is that when rates rise 100 basis points that we would pass 60% of that through the clients.
As I've been told by others that that will be more than competitive because banks will never pass that much through.
But where I really gauge that to is to be competitive with money market fund yields at that point in the cycle.
We view that as a competitive factor as well.
Our payout to brokers is where it is today.
We share a small portion of we call a controlled asset fee just based on cash balances it's being done today just as it would be done.
So that won't incrementally go up as rates rise.
Our view is that 100 basis point rise gives us between a $80 million and $100 million pretax the bottom line for us.
So that's where we...
If you get the $45 million or $50 million after-tax and your 2% ROE.
Okay.
And then just on the Private Client Group just thinking forward if more assets do come to the equity market how does that sort of impact the different items? I'm assuming you'll lose money in net interest income because people will be shifting money out of cash.
But is the revenues that you'll earn say per dollar of asset go up? Is that how to think about that? Well it would go up I think a lot of them go into ramp [ph] fee type of programs which is how a lot of the investing is being done here as you know.
So certainly that fee is a lot more than that we're earning relative to the interest spread on cash.
So that would certainly be a positive factor for us.
And there are certainly increased Asset Management fees as more went into Equity as our Asset Management effort is largely small and mid-cap equity-based at this point.
So those were -- and so I think they would be a positive to PCG and to Asset Management for sure.
And certainly over what we're earning on interest today.
Because I don't think anyone is earning a lot on it.
Yes I would imagine.
We'd make that trade today for sure.
Well let us all hope that that happens.
All right guys.
Thanks a lot.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a bit about I guess the debt offering that you guys did issue.
I was wondering I guess when you consider the pace at which you guys put to work or have put to work the prior senior note offering I was just trying to get a sense as to why you guys are looking at I guess five-year paper as opposed to the ten-year paper you issued before? Well you know we looked all up and done the curve.
Even 30 year looked attractive if you're looking at equity replacement.
I think the issue really is we think there's just going to be opportunities to invest then we want to stay liquid.
And we're generating positive cash flow.
So if we had a specific purpose for it we would've gone longer to fund whatever we're going to use it for.
But given that we just kind of chose a shorter-term range that we figured if we need cash we're still generating good cash flow.
We wanted to be liquid be able to have opportunities to do whatever we wanted to do and cash over the period of time we thought would pay it back.
So we took probably more of an intermediate position given that and went up and down the yield curve.
So we just thought the markets were attractive wanted to stay liquid and debated up and down the curve.
So we could have argued -- we could argue 10 we could argue 5 and we could argue 30 but we chose the five based on that we did the last one at 10 to prevent a bunching of the maturities.
LLC</strong> And I guess obviously we've talked about the importance of rising short-term rates to your bottom line.
I was wondering if you could tell us what your strategists are kind of looking at now with regards to expectations and when the Fed might start to move? I don't know if everyone -- you keep looking and it seems like every couple of quarters prediction gets a couple of quarters later.
We've assumed that rates are going to have to move up whether it's the end of this year or beginning of next year which I guess is more of a consensus we don't know.
So we're in a position to benefit from it but I don't know if we could tell you when that will be better than anybody else.
LLC</strong> And I guess in thinking about the prepayment pressure that the bank has been under I was wondering I guess maybe if you could make some comments Steve about how much of an influence would higher short-term rates kind of play on some of that prepayment pressure that really more a function of the long-end of the curve? What kind of starts to get that prepayment pressure to subside? I think that would impact it for sure.
We have seen that the pace by which our corporate borrowers are able to refinance has slowed down here recently.
As a matter of fact average loans for the quarter were actually up during the March quarter.
We're still seeing some of that activity but it has slowed down a little bit.
Clearly our residential portfolio they would be a direct correlation with the prepayments and repayments of our mortgage portfolio with rising rates.
LLC</strong> Okay and once you do start to kind of go into the mode of growth in the loan portfolio can you just remind us again on the expected reserve rates that you would administer for the residential and the corporate originations? Sure.
Our corporate portfolio it's obviously -- we've got a risk rating system.
So it's based on what grade of loan but the going-on rate for new loans is approximately 160 basis points of new reserves.
And the residential portfolio is just slightly less than 100 basis points right now going on.
LLC</strong> Okay and I guess if you start to increase your expectations or become a little more comfortable with the overall economic climate and so forth would you think that there is the opportunity for reserve releases? Or should we just kind of start to see the reserve ratio come down just as we see growth in the portfolio and then a lower pace of which the new loans are coming on at those reserve levels? Yes it kind of not in our DNA to release reserves.
But definitely the latter versus the former comment for sure.
I don't see us changing our system that would systemically release reserves.
It's just as individual credits improve occasionally we see reserves specific reserve release.
.
So I think you'd see the same discipline you saw in '09 where people question whether we're reserving whether we reserved well not as well as we thought I guess going into '08 or '09 but we keep the same discipline even in the up markets.
We assume over a cycle we're going to use them and try to value them appropriately.
One thing that you could see though Hugh is holding everything else constant if you actually had a loan that you had reserved and you decided to actually charge part of the loan offer or all of it that in and of itself would just reduce reserves once again holding everything else flat.
Yes I just wanted to follow-up on the loan paydowns.
I believe last quarter you benefited by maybe $10 million or so from loans paying off early which seemed to be a little bit higher than normal.
And I just wanted to see if -- a couple of things one does that run through interest income? And then secondly how much was the positive impact from loans paying off early this quarter? Yes that is correct Devin.
That fee recognition of the unamortized portion happens at the time that a loan pays down or pays off.
And also if a loan has a material refinancing element if there's a change of maturity date we go through an exercise to determine if it's in effect a new loan or not.
The March quarter looked very similar to the December quarter in that regard.
So there was -- there's been quite a bit of fee recognition but both quarters looked relatively consistent with one another.
And it does flow through interest...
Interest income yes.
That's why the spreads stayed up at 3.5% whereas we've been steering people guidance-wise to numbers lower than that.
And it's lower than last quarter because last quarter included that interest adjustment.
It was [ph] present in the quarter.
The other thing that impacted the margin this last quarter our cash balances were higher by a couple of $100 million which there's very little margin in the overnight liquidity that the bank has so that lowered the margin on total assets.
Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
So just thinking about call it maybe $10 million or so in benefit from that that's higher than maybe the last couple of quarters.
The last couple of quarters it's higher than maybe it had been running previously? I just want to make sure I'm thinking about that right.
That is correct.
And as the refinancing subside then we wouldn't have that recognition.
I think it was a little bit less than $10 million number over the last couple of quarters though.
Okay well if there are no more questions I thank you for joining the call.
And Tom James has joined us in the room so every time I see 93 consecutive quarters I'm always reminded what's in front of me is to keep the firm operating positively.
So I appreciate your participation and talk to you all soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning my name is Sylvia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Quarterly Analyst Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Reilly you may begin your conference.
All right.
Well good morning.
I'm joined by a cast here.
We have Jeff Julien our CFO; Jennifer Ackert Controller; Steve Raney Head of our bank; Chet Helck our COO; Paul Matecki Chief Legal Counsel; and last but certainly not least Tom James our Chairman.
We're going into probably a little more detail on the call but I want to start off kind of an overview.
We have a lot happening this quarter.
Our total revenues are up 14% over last year's prior quarter and flat versus last quarter.
I think given the market a very good performance.
Our net income reported GAAP net income was down 23% versus last year's prior quarter but up 23% if you took out adjusted for our auction rate securities on a non-GAAP basis and down 7% versus last quarter.
I think the results to me given so much movement this quarter is really in the 9-month ended numbers where revenues were up 16% versus the 9 months for last year.
But net income GAAP was up 32% and again adjusting for the auction rate securities was up 49%.
So I think we're off to a very very solid year.
Most of our segments had robust performance given really the markets but the only exception really Capital Markets which we'll spend a little time on really due to securities commissions.
I'm going to go through the major segments and comment on them and then turn it over to Jeff who will go through some of the other segments and some of the detailed questions that arise.
Before I start that there are probably 5 fairly significant events that happened this quarter for us.
Four had some financial impact to our numbers.
The first obviously was our auction rate securities where we took a $45 million pretax charge.
Now that charge does not include $1.750 million of our settlement with the state or legal fees.
That's just the provision really for buying the securities.
The reason we went ahead and did this is we felt from -- even though we thought we had a very defensible position and had leading industry practices in terms of disclosure on auction rates we want to get it behind us for the company and maybe more importantly is provide liquidity for our clients.
And we just last Friday mailed out to our clients their offers to redeem their securities and we'll be starting that process.
So the first batch will be done within the first 10 days of receipts.
So that's going to have some impact that we can talk about.
Jeff will get into the detail.
We also completed our $250 million secured -- senior unsecured note offering.
So we'll talk a little bit about net interest income and some impacts that that had on our statements.
We closed our Howe Barnes transaction which because we expensed some of the fees and costs of that transaction had some impact also.
Fourth we bought controlling interest in our European equity's subsidiary.
Net consolidations had a little bit of impact on revenue and on cost.
And fifth which didn't have an impact but we announced that we have a contract to purchase about $500 million of loans from -- in Toronto from Allied Irish Bank.
So a busy quarter and a lot going on.
Let me start kind of with the Private Client Group.
Revenues were flat quarter-on-quarter and I think given the market and things going on pretty good.
Securities commissions were down slightly about 1% but really made up by mutual fund-related types of revenue.
Pretax income was up about 16%.
The biggest swing in that was really our nonqualified options expense.
Last quarter we had taken a charge of about $2.5 million.
This year we had a $2.1 million credit.
So kind of a net swing.
Most of the cost was $4.7 million there.
Now the business is in great shape.
The assets under administration is up $3 billion and essentially a flat quarter market in the S&amp;P.
$1 billion approximately of those assets were from the Howe Barnes acquisition and the rest were really just from inflows from our advisors.
Also a nice reversal of the trend is advisor account is up about 27 advisors and we're up in the U.S.
Canada and the U.K.
in terms of number of financial advisors.
So business should be in good shape.
And remember most of our assets a good chunk of our assets in that business were built in advance so we should have a good start for the quarter there.
Capital Markets kind of a little bit of a mixed tale.
As you know in the industry it's been a tough quarter in the market.
Our M&amp;A fees were about flat with last quarter and we had a good quarter.
I mean we're coming off a strong quarter last quarter.
Our underwriting fees were up slightly.
The main impact there is they were up in the U.S.
actually about $5 million but down in Canada about $4 million dollars.
So despite the number of deals that we published lead deals which we told you that statistic is kind of not a greatest indicator.
We've debated on to published lead deals or comanaged deals.
We had a large number of comanaged deals that really drove revenue this quarter so even though the statistics were down the revenue was just slightly up.
The big change was in institutional securities commissions which were off 10% for the segment and trading profits which overall were down between all the businesses mainly fixed income but overall down about $7 million.
So the backlog is good.
July has been a tough month.
August typically isn't a great month.
And September is often a good month depending on the market.
So the outlook from a backlog standpoint is good but from the market it's kind of hard to predict.
Also our Tax Credit Funds business has had a very good backlog and should be positioned well this quarter to finish very very strong on the upside for the Capital Markets business.
The Asset Management business again good results.
We've had strong net inflows.
Assets under management were up from $35.6 billion to $36.6 billion about $1 billion.
And if you look total wrap [ph] these that we have both our nonmanaged and our assets under management were up from $87 billion to say $90 billion.
So both of these pieces were up 3%.
The result is revenue was up 6% about $3 million.
Expenses were only up about $800 000.
So we had a good net increase of about 16% on net income for that segment.
Again I think good performance especially given the market.
The bank I think in the highlights of the bank even though revenue is slightly down and pretax income was flat a lot of positive signs in the bank.
Loans grew at $225 million which is off of flat production.
The net increase I think was a good number.
We also announced the purchase of Allied Irish Bank loans about $500 million.
I want to remind you it's -- I think it will be good if we close that but it will have an impact on our provision if we close it.
So as you model your numbers part of doing that is putting in [ph] cost when you start and so it will impact the numbers.
Interest spreads tightened slightly as we had told you we thought they would at the beginning of last quarter.
And credit continues to improve the credit quality in the bank and the portfolio.
And you could see that in the net charge-off and provisions which were both essentially flat to last quarter and that's even after the SNC exam which typically the results of the SNC would come in last quarter.
We got them in this quarter and we had a flat charge with -- even that's essentially $2 million effect with the SNC.
So as you know our policy is to write down the ones that they have lower and not to write up the ones they have higher.
So I think we keep good focus on that.
So with that that's kind of the view of the major segments.
They're well positioned and the question is honestly what's going to happen in the Capital Markets this coming quarter.
So I'll turn it over to Jeff who I think we're going to start on Proprietary Capital.
Jeff? Yes I'm going to try to head off some of the questions lest we'd be here a while.
In the other income line on the financials which kind of sticks out most of that delta from the prior quarter relates to Proprietary Capital write-ups.
You can see that in the Proprietary Capital segment information in the release about a $14 million swing from last quarter.
That encompassed our venture capital investments at the holding company the unfortunate consolidation of the employee investment funds most of which comes out through the noncontrolling interests so one of the factors that drove that up this quarter as well as our merchant banking fund all 3.
So that was the biggest change.
Most of the balance related to some of these mutual fund-related revenues that Paul mentioned such as omnibus fees networking fees education marketing support fees et cetera that are in the other income line item.
So that one had a big jump.
We typically on the venture capital funds by way of reminder we generally mark those every June quarter when we get the audited statements in generally in April and May from all the funds that were invested and we mark them to the audited balances.
So it's kind of a once-a-year adjustment on those but it can go either direction since we've had improving market over the last year which caused a positive mark.
The other segment that had a couple of good quarters in a row is the Emerging Markets as we've had some good investment banking activity in Latin America 2 quarters in a row.
So that one has been performing and contributing more than it had in the past.
Comment on net interest.
You can see that net interest dropped about $4 million quarter versus the preceding quarter.
The biggest factor there of course is we issued bonds in early April which added about $2.5 million roughly of interest expense to our books this quarter.
And then the balance was a slightly lower interest spreads at the bank.
The tax rate obviously is another one that sort of sticks out.
It was right around 40% this quarter.
It was a combination of things.
One is we had the nondeductible fine that Paul mentioned the $1.75 million fine to the states relative to ARS.
Secondly we repatriated some money from an offshore island related to some activities that we had discontinued some years ago that we had never -- had not paid taxes on.
We paid taxes when it got repatriated this particular quarter as we continue to consolidate cash at the RJF level as opposed to having it parked in subsidiaries.
And those 2 things coupled with a depressed pretax income number because of the ARS charge led the rate to look abnormally high.
But for the year-to-date it's still pretty much in line just in the 37% 37.5% type range.
With respect the ARS Paul mentioned that we've mailed the letters.
Clients have I think 75 days to respond.
We are going to start making reimbursements as soon as next week as they come in.
We have established a separate subsidiary to house these in.
A provision that we took we were estimating -- in fact when we did the settlement several weeks ago we were estimating $50 million it came in closer to $45 million.
About half of that provision relates to what we would call credit-related issues and the other half kind of is really more just time value of money.
So with the exception of the Jefferson County positions which are the potential credit issues we expect to recoup and possibly even the Jeff County's as well.
But certainly on the others we expect to recoup this over time as the redemptions continue to occur or as interest rates start to rise either one which may happen at the same time.
Now I want to talk a little bit about ROEs for the quarter.
As reported the ROE for the quarter was 7.4%.
But again the non-GAAP adjusted for removing the $45 million provision not all the attended expenses but just the $45 million provision itself the ROE for the quarter was about 11.76% and that gives us a year-to-date ROE of just under 13% for the quarter -- I mean for the year-to-date which again without the interest earnings that we've been accustomed to all these years is about where we've been for the last couple of quarters.
Lastly I want to make a comment about comp ratio.
You can see that trended down for the second quarter in a row not in a big meaningful way but somewhat.
And I'd say we're continuing to watch the comp levels pretty closely particularly the incentive comp accruals rather than having lumpy adjustments toward year end we're being a little more diligent.
But secondly impacting those was that we had some modest adjustments for the lower profitability because of the ARS charge for some impact on some of the profit-related accruals.
So that had an impact as well.
So that was -- that's some detail on some of the things I know would otherwise come up in questions.
Okay.
Well great.
At this point we'll go ahead and open it up for questions.
So Sylvia why don't you ask? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Daniel Harris from Goldman Sachs.
Paul I would love to get your views.
There's been a lot of discussion in the industry recently about some consolidation and expansion opportunities and you guys have talked publicly about growing your Asset Management business.
So love to get your high-level thoughts on what you're seeing out there and what you guys continue to focus on.
We know the international asset manager is something you talked about in the past.
But is there anything else you'd like to continue to grow into? Well I think in terms of Asset Management as you've said we publicly and we're actively seeking international large cap manager.
And I think we would opportunistically look at other managers that would sit and help fill out kind of a family of funds in Eagles.
So that is ongoing.
When you look at both strategic fit cultural fit in terms of the manager and the organization something big enough that it's worthwhile doing but not so big that it's outside of our range.
And at a price we think is reasonable it's easier said than done.
But we're very active.
We've been -- we have accord James full time assigned to that and we're using some other outside people to help us.
So again if we find the right acquisition I think we would close but we're not going to do one just to do one.
So it's ongoing.
And so that strategy hasn't changed.
Okay.
Moving on maybe to the banking and trading environment.
The muni business seemed like it was much better in the second -- in the fiscal third quarter than it was in the quarter or so before that.
Are you guys still seeing strength in the demand for municipal issuance? And from a secondary trading perspective how has retail investor reengaged that market? I think overall just with low -- institutionally in the muni business I don't think there's been a big pickup.
With rates being low we're seeing -- that's why commissions are down I think a lot of people are sitting on the sidelines waiting.
The retail investors probably have gotten a little more conservative than they were before the flows to equity funds have turned negative again.
Our experience has actually been fairly good.
We've had net inflows given this environment.
So I think a lot of people are looking to wait and see.
I can't say there's a big shift in the [indiscernible] market.
Okay.
And then last for me.
We did finally see some headcount picked up in the number of advisors this quarter a welcomed relief here.
Anything you're seeing on the recruitment front? I know we ask this every quarter but I guess maybe incrementally do things feel like they're getting slightly more amenable to being out there in the market looking to recruit brokers away? I'm sure it's still a challenging market but the headcount growth was a positive this quarter.
Yes still a challenging market I think.
We're aided partially by the Howe Barnes acquisition certainly and RJA.
The market is still difficult for a couple of reasons.
People in the last couple of years were put under retention packages so that's a factor.
And also when -- after a tough couple of years in the market when people are doing well even if they think it's a better firm they're less likely to pick up and move.
So the visits are up but recruiting is still tough and very very competitive.
Your next question comes from Devin Ryan from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Not too much for me but just it'd be helpful if you could maybe just give a little more detail on the type of assets that you're acquiring from Allied Irish Bank in Canada and anymore help on the impact on results.
You obviously mentioned we just think about the provision but what about on the net interest income side? It's Steve Raney.
Little additional color on that.
That portfolio as Paul mentioned is about $500 million in outstandings currently about $650 million in commitments.
There's 25 relationships in -- that comprise that balance.
Eight of the 25 are commercial real estate loans.
Six are corporate loans so C&amp;I commercial loans and industrial loans and 11 loans that are really C&amp;I but are a little bit specialized.
They're kind of in the power and infrastructure arena with government or provincial contracts that support that power and infrastructure build that was -- project financed that was built.
All of those are completed projects at this point.
As Paul mentioned also we're anticipating and we're working with the regulatory approval process right now.
I would anticipate getting that closed this quarter.
The provision impact on that current balance would be roughly $7.25 million.
And then on the margin the current yield on that portfolio is approximately 7.4% including the discount being amortized over the life of those loans.
I would say that that's on a pre-hedged basis.
We're evaluating some hedging as well.
So that's on a pre-hedged basis.
So that would have a positive impact on our margin the hedging extent would be below the net interest margin line.
We also in our modeling right now most of those loans are floating rate loans tied to the Canadian bankers acceptance rate which is at kind of a historically high level relative to LIBOR.
In our modeling when we were going through our analysis and negotiating the purchase price we factored in some compression in that but the current yield on that portfolio once again is around 7.4%.
L.P.</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And just back to the other revenues obviously you spoke about the Proprietary Capital gains.
And then you mentioned Jeff the various mutual fund fees and I know that those can bounce around from quarter-to-quarter but they seemed higher than normal.
So I just wanted to get a sense of is there anything unusual and then why this quarter was maybe elevated on that front as well if this is kind of a new run rate going forward or if there's just something else there that we need to consider? Well I think in large part it's just going to be kind of a new run rate.
We continue to convert our mutual fund positions to an omnibus basis.
We had a significant vendor converted over in February which definitely helped this quarter.
And that will be recurring.
And as both -- we increased the positions and we increased the sales positions in all these mutual fund families the assets continue to grow.
We expect that that will be a slowly upward trending line over time.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly pardon if I missed this.
But on the other expenses even outside the $1.75 million auction rate fine is there anything else in there that would be kind of also unusual to the quarter? That also just looked a little bit elevated.
Other than some of the expenses related to the Howe Barnes acquisition and some of those fees that used to be capitalized that are now expensed no it was actually down from last quarter but there wasn't anything that I would point to other than the fine.
Your next question comes from Hugh Miller from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I had a follow-up question I guess on the bank.
I certainly appreciate the color there regarding the loan portfolio and so forth.
Can you talk about the growth opportunities there how you guys view that? I mean obviously you have 25 relationships but what are you thinking with regards to being able to leverage kind of your capital with the bank and being able to grow in Canada? What are the opportunities you're seeing there? How should we think about growth? We look at the opportunities there just like we do in the U.S.
It gives us a platform to leverage our equity capital markets clients really as a base.
And so we have a good franchise there and we plan to leverage it like we have here.
And that's really the growth opportunity.
And this was just the way to get the business kick started.
LLC</strong> Do you I guess foresee kind of out of the gates in the coming quarters a nice opportunity to go out there and kind of cross-sell to your current clients? Or is this kind of just be a slow and steady progression? I think it would be slow.
In fact Hugh I think that the -- that portfolio of $500 million we will be looking for new opportunities and have a small team that will be on the ground in Toronto.
But the run-off of this portfolio will most likely exceed our new production.
But as Paul mentioned it is kind of our -- a place to launch this business.
And we've got a very profitable and growing business in Canada already that this is going to be supplemental to.
We've got some good relationships already that we can leverage.
Incidentally we've already -- we've made 2 or 3 loans here in the U.S -- in U.S.
dollars to Canadian-based companies.
That effort was already underway which -- that's one of the drivers in terms of this acquisition opportunity.
It aligned itself with what we were already doing.
LLC</strong> And I guess one question just a follow-up on the recruiting environment.
Obviously it was a nice kind of change to see some growth there.
Are you seeing any kind of change in the upfront money that the larger peers that you're competing against are kind of going out there just given the choppy market conditions? Are they kind of reassessing what they're paying upfront? Or has there really not been a change in that? I don't think dramatic -- there's always somebody that we think is not rational leading the way and that may shift and change but there always seems to be somebody that's just looking at head count growth over anything.
But we still get a good number of people that you can't pay them enough to go some places and they want to join us.
So we now certainly -- our transition assistance is not as high others but we try to keep it economical and be in the market.
So it's cyclical.
I think -- we don't believe that the high-end offers are sustainable because we don't see no matter how we run it that they're profitable.
LLC</strong> And you mentioned kind of one of the headwinds being the retention packages that have been awarded since the recession.
Do you have a sense of what those -- the typical duration of those tend to be? And is there a time period? Obviously that kind of would free up the opportunity to be more active on the recruiting side.
There's 5- to 7-year packages.
But there's a major firm where there is shorter term retention from '09 and '10 wears off next year.
So I mean it's all -- they're all over the place but they tend to do 5- to 7-year deals.
But as those are amortize down too I mean when you get down to less than half it isn't the same retention as it was on the first half.
So it's a cycle and we'll chip away.
This isn't the first time it's happened.
There's also -- as players look at consolidation in others it always gives us opportunity.
So we just have to be disciplined.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Good point.
And you did mention about the -- we did see industry flows kind of coming out of equity funds maybe more pressure on the domestic relative to the international.
But have your discussions for an acquisition on the international asset management fund kind of changed at all given that the near-term market conditions or is it likely not to have swayed at all over pricing? We're very long-term oriented so the ideal asset manager would be an international large cap manager that had European distribution and we could leverage it and they could leverage our U.S.
distribution and our good portfolio managers.
So we have -- we're looking both in North America and in Europe.
And wherever we find the right team if we find them we'll have them join us.
Although the current market environment may cause a few more to come available.
LLC</strong> Right exactly.
And I guess that was getting back to my question is that have the valuation discussions over what they're willing to accept changed at all given the market conditions or is that not been the case? Not much.
I think the problem is when they're down a lot of people say well it's not the time to sell because it will come back.
So there are pros and cons.
I don't think it's changed short term.
Your next question comes from Doug Sipkin from Ticonderoga Securities.
Two questions.
The first for Steve kind of think about this another way.
I guess on the bank transaction you indicated I guess you guys would have a provision of $7.25 million.
How should we be thinking about like the breakeven on that portfolio? How many quarters or a year or 2 years do you sort of see the breakeven on that sort of upfront provision expense? I' m just trying to frame that gross yield at 7.4% you provided sort of on an apples-to-apples basis with your current portfolio.
Doug I don't know if I can answer that.
We haven't really looked at it on that basis.
I mean once again this is -- this last quarter we did 61 new corporate loan transactions that totaled almost $700 million it drove some of the outstanding.
So this acquisition in and of itself is not -- it's less than one quarter's production of our corporate -- normal corporate production.
And when we're doing that we -- part of our provision expense this last quarter the June quarter was related to loan growth.
So I don't -- it's similar to us just growing loans organically anyway.
That being said that yield -- the average life of these loans I would say is probably 3 years in terms of the maturity dates across the spectrum of that portfolio.
And certainly over the life of that it's going to have a return to us at least equal to what our domestic portfolio is yielding.
Yes.
I think you can look at it as it's a foothold for a new business.
The loan production as Steve said is not a game changer for us in the quarter [ph].
And given where we are we like the credits we like the people and it has a little better return going in.
We modeled it to tighten a little bit.
So you should look at it the way we've always done business.
We just have a foothold in Toronto now.
An opportunity to grow loans.
Remember that we have a capital allocation kind of cap to the banking industry.
So we're not trying to have a game changer in terms of allocation to the banking industry.
We're just trying to be able to consume free cash generation and keep the retained earnings reinvested to fund future growth for the bank.
And we've had difficulty doing that as you know over the last couple of years.
So that's really the challenge.
I appreciate that.
I guess I was just trying to get a sense because I get the sense that you did sort of purchase it the loans -- I mean I don't think you've said this but I'm sort of saying it at a bit of -- a little bit of a discount anyway.
So with the sort of accretive gain I'm at least thinking that it could be a little bit more profitable than your current book even though it's much smaller so...
That's the hope.
We try not to buy at a premium.
That's the hope.
But whether we hedge or not there may be some other costs there may be some currency costs.
The most important element is the credit selection.
We went through every loan.
Obviously it's a relatively small number of loans.
We kicked some loans out.
So ultimately if the loans performed then it's going to be a nice acquisition and that's the basis for us going into it.
Got you.
Okay.
And then the SNC I mean any reason why it was this quarter and not next quarter? It surprised us.
They got it done faster.
They're actually working faster than normal.
That's a surprise.
Yes.
Everybody's June quarter it went out to everybody I guess the end of June.
We got it June 30 the afternoon effectively [ph].
And then just finally.
Your investment banking revenues continue to be very impressive.
I mean is it really just a combination of some of the small acquisitions you've made and market share gains? Because personally I was pretty surprised given what happened in June and late May for you guys to put up such a strong number.
I mean is there anything else going on there where you guys just feel like maybe some of the bigger shops are running into some issues on the mid-cap type of companies? Or I mean is it just sort of your sweet spot sectors are working really well? I think until late June July a lot of these sectors that are income-driven the REITs and MLPs were just strong.
And they're strong products and we're well positioned in the REIT space we play against everyone.
So that was the big driver.
In Latin America we had some deals that -- some pretty large deals for that size where we led the way and that contributed too.
Canada was very very strong until this quarter.
They were off some but they've had good performance too.
So we've been well positioned in our sectors and the market has been good.
And we don't see that ending although June -- end of June beginning July wasn't the best for our industry.
Your next question comes from Steve Stelmach from FBR.
Just real quick on the offshoring [ph] security provision of $50 million you said half was credit related to Jefferson County.
What's the implied recovery value of that Jefferson County? Is it -- what does the 25% -- what does that $25 [ph] million represent? About $90 million in positions.
That was a $45 million charge not a $50 million charge.
I'm sorry.
I apologize yes $45 million.
And then maybe this is a little bit longer-term question but on Basel III it's unclear how the federal government is going to adopt it or apply it to different institutions.
But is that all having an impact on your acquisition strategy? I mean clearly capital hasn't been an issue for you guys? But is that in the back of your mind when you're thinking about doing M&amp;A? First we're not sure how the government is going to apply anything right now.
But the -- everything we've looked at we're solidly capitalized.
The best we can tell from any of the provisions it's not going to be an issue for us.
Okay that's not an impediment at all.
Okay.
And then just maybe a more technical question for Steve.
You talked about an adjusted LTV analysis roughly small dollar amounts $3 million provision.
Was that an analysis trying to gauge what strategic defaults are? Or is that just simply an analysis of recovery value? Recovery value.
We overlay the Case-Shiller information across our portfolio each quarter and look at our -- what we think to be the LTVs in our loans and that analysis along with what we think potential further home price declines we factor all that in and that drove that $3 million addition to our provision for the quarter in our residential portfolio.
Your next question comes from Joel Jeffrey from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just to go back to Doug's question a little earlier.
On the M&amp;A and the underwriting front you mentioned the sectors that have been strong.
Are there any sectors that you see sort of a pipeline building that are sort of just about set to take off? Well we've been building and recruiting heavily in technology because we see that as a sector that's been heating up and there's been enough displacement of firms that we think there's an opportunity.
But I think the other sectors we play in have been okay but again the REIT and MLP and the M&amp;A business which has been very good for us across the board have been driving it so far.
So some sectors we're not positioned in too.
The Howe Barnes services.
The FIG business is an area where we thought when we acquired Howe Barnes that's a near term activity would be a little bit higher than it has been but it will come.
So we have gotten a few transactions out of that already.
We've gotten a lot of synergy with fixed income in terms of working for the clients but again the interest rate environment hasn't been real helpful with that.
So we think there's still some upside in that.
The integration is going very very well.
Energy is probably the other one.
Yes energy.
We're very very active in the energy Space.
In downstream energy you can see the announcements though the MLPs have been strong for us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
And then you mentioned that institutional securities was down 10% quarter-on-quarter.
But specifically how was your institutional equities business? What was the performance of that? To tell you -- we are looking for it.
Give us one second.
About the same same percentage roughly.
Yes.
We looked at most of the businesses they're down 9% to 12% pretty much across the board.
And actually that's been less than most people if we look at year-to-date changes.
I think we've done better but there's clearly a downward trend.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And then just lastly.
I know you've given us a lot of color on the loan purchase and describing it as a foothold into Canada.
Are there any other areas that you're looking to implement this strategy in? Are there any other whether it be geographies that you want to get into? Or is this a possible new strategy in terms of just growing the loan portfolio in general? No I think Canada has always been -- we've -- if you look at the bank's strategic initiative had been around taking our best equity capital markets clients.
We had very good performance really clearly no defaults during the downturn with our clients there.
So taking our best clients so we know them in lending.
We also have some other related projects or securities-based lending with our Private Client Group and we've been building up our mortgage origination both outside and what's inside of our Private Client Group as a strategy.
So we're just -- we're getting focused on the areas that we've been good at and that are synergistic with our businesses.
Probably no other geographies in the near term.
No.
We're not looking to go into any other countries.
And I show no further questions at this time.
Well great.
I know there's a lot of things moving up and down and I think the business again 94 consecutive profitable quarters is -- feels good.
I've got only about 90 more to tie Tom.
Probably won't make it that long but we'll try to keep the streak alive.
The question for us is all the businesses are solid and we're well positioned and what we can't predict is what's going to happen in the market so -- especially in the near term.
So positioned well if the market picks up I think capital markets will return.
And probably the big challenge in the institutional side is also fixed income with low rates clients not just here everywhere have had kind of their fill of low rate long-term stuff and there's a lot of cash on the sidelines.
So when they redeploy when they have a different expectation or -- it's going to be this way forever or it's going to move up we'll kick start that business.
Until then we'll just wait through the cycle.
But I think the business is in good shape.
So thank you for joining us and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Your first question comes from the line of Hugh Miller with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Had a question I guess obviously your PCG segment held up as you mentioned very well given the exposure to fee-based accounts and so forth.
But just wanted to get your view on still a volatile environment here and kind of what you're hearing from brokers about retail activity levels and their willingness to stick to their investment plans and so forth and what you're seeing there even into October? I think what you're seeing is just you're seeing people sticking very closely to it.
Obviously cash is up some and people have been more cautious but actually have been positively surprised that both advisers and clients have been sticking closely to their investment plans.
Obviously those with less risk tolerance or closer term issues have had to adjust but people have hung in there.
Now I think the individual investor isn't any different than corporate America is being cautious trying to figure out what's going on looking forward.
But I think they've hung in there pretty well.
LLC</strong> And you mentioned obviously we saw a slight pickup in net advisers during the quarter.
You mentioned that home office visits are improving and there's interest in looking at Raymond James.
What do you really see as a driving factor of that and your expectations for recruiting as we head into fiscal '12? I think it's just first we've had a very stable platform and we've had a number of our competitors especially larger competitors that continue to have a lot of news and advisers others that have been -- some through acquisitions by those companies have been in environments they haven't enjoyed.
And as their companies get in the news I think they're interested in looking for platforms that they view are stable and maybe represent the platforms they grew up in.
So as retention wears off in some places environment changes honestly slowdowns are good for people to take a pause and look and say when you're really really busy doing well you're less inclined to stop and look around.
When it slows down a little bit you're more willing to look around and our platform's been very very consistent.
The service level is high.
We're very adviser-centric and when people pause they look at us.
And so the good news of a downturn if there is one we're not rooting for one is that we tend to do very well in recruiting.
We'd rather win in a competitive growth environment but if it's slowing down I think that's a positive to us and again as other people make changes and other competitors we tend to be stable and we get an influx of people looking at us.
Well I agree with that.
I think that the other sort of macro factor that you have to recognize is that Raymond James brand has really come through this market cycle much stronger relative to the competition than we went into the cycle.
And so with all the numbers that we see in brand strength measuring the metrics from both the retail side I mean the client-side the investor side as well as from the professional side talent and we have a great deal more respect and just knowledge out here.
People know who we are now.
They respect who we are and when people decide to make a move we have -- more frequently get a chance to talk to them than maybe we would have 5 years ago or certainly 10 years ago.
So we've become a bigger stronger company.
LLC</strong> I appreciate there's a color insight there.
Of the retention award that you saw kind of given out following the recession to advisers for them to stay in companies what's the typical duration of what you're seeing from those and are we coming up to any points where their obligations maybe completed in making kind of look to go elsewhere without having to repay a substantial portion of that retention? They vary by company.
And when people joined and also there are certain firms that do have awards coming up in this coming year so probably don't want to go into too much of that detail.
We know where the flow's coming from right now but there are there is just more activity because of all those factors.
I think Hugh they probably ranged from 3 to 7 years something like that.
So we're starting to see the early ones come off.
LLC</strong> Obviously we've seen an interesting dynamic over the last quarter in the equity fund flows and was wondering whether or not your discussions with prospective asset managers have those kind of changed at all have expectations changed at all? And what are the dynamics of those discussions? I guess we're all kind of pausing pausing a little bit here.
I don't think we've seen any major shifts in the short term.
Obviously we're all aware of where funds are flowing but been relatively stable nothing major changed recently.
LLC</strong> You're still not kind of seeing expectations for pricing that's come in none of the discussions you're having with the people that you'd like to kind of to acquire.
You're talking about acquiring people? LLC</strong> No acquiring an asset management firm which is something that you guys have talked about just wondering if those discussions with the prospective people you'd like to kind of look at have they changed at all given the dynamics of the equity flow market? It's a double-edged sword.
When things are down people think it's not the right time to sell.
So all their pricing comes in and when things are up sometimes they want to get to the next level.
So you always just have to find the right manager the right culture at the right time to sell.
So we are very we're very actively talking to a lot of people in general terms haven't pulled the trigger haven't found the right fit yet.
But I'd say people are very open to talking.
I don't think pricing has changed a lot but we're really just trying to find the right fit to add for us to add.
But I wouldn't say I wouldn't see there any significant changes.
The only thing I would say is that probably we are screening out more of the people we talk to simply because the track records don't meet the differentials that we'd like to see in terms of Alpha over longer periods of investment results.
So that when we go through the screens of the people we're talking to you see too much risk that a very short-term downdraft in performance would result in lost assets under management.
And as a consequence we have been very careful on that front.
LLC</strong> And I know that you guys have talked about within the retail segment the composition of fee-based generation on predominantly based on the prior quarter's balances.
Could you remind us within the Asset Management segment how that competition is with regards to prior quarter versus current quarter? About 2/3 of the assets are billed at the beginning of the quarter and their balance is split pretty evenly between average daily and then the institutional accounts are billed at the end of the quarter which is why Asset Management showed a slight downtick in revenues because they were -- they did have a block of assets their institutional accounts that were billed out at the end of the quarter in arrears as well as those on the average daily that went -- hurt a little bit versus the prior quarter as well.
But we still had net sales growth.
So essentially it was offset and the factors weren't as large.
And while you hesitate to ever mention market value -- market values are up 8% from the end of the quarter too.
So hopefully we'll get a new market at the end of March that will put us back where we were.
LLC</strong> And the last question I had was with regards to the bank and the Shared National Credit Program.
Was wondering whether or not the loan portfolio expansion is that really more indicative of pickup in demand or is it more a reduction in lending competition you're seeing possibly within that program and so that you're able to kind of get a lot of the greater percentage of the things that you're kind of wanting to lend to? It's Steve Raney.
Just last quarter approximately 65% of our new fundings were actually secondary market acquisitions.
Most of which were add-ons to existing positions where we at the initial primary syndication where we may have for example may have committed 25 and we only got 10.
Prices have come in a little bit the last quarter and we were able to add to some positions.
Here more recently in the last I would say 45 days the primary markets have really slowed down quite a bit.
But for the bulk of the September quarter the beginning part of the quarter the primary markets were pretty busy and then the second half of the quarter we were adding the positions in the secondary market.
So if prices once again had come down to more reasonable levels where before most loans are trading at a premium we were able to add to some positions at slight discounts.
But still what we're are adding are in credits that will be subject to [indiscernible].
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just on the investment banking front when we look at investment banking revenues you guys had another strong quarter in what was really a tough environment.
And then for all of 2011 revenues were up 50% in investment banking.
So to me it's pretty clear you guys have picked up market share and also were benefiting from a pretty diverse footprint.
But I just want you to assess is there anything else that you'd attribute the outperformance to? And when you think about banking and where you are currently versus where you think you could be in a more functioning market do you still feel like there's a way to go from here? There are a couple of factors if you look at the year as a whole certainly our strength in the REIT and MLP space and energy were big factors in our year.
Those markets picked up early and we did very well on them.
So if you look on year-over-year performance they were driven by those.
We really believe that there is a lot of room for pickup as you still see.
What I call middle-market IPOs never really hitting stride.
We do have with the Howe Barnes acquisition significantly have expanded our big business and certainly the banking space with these prices there aren't a lot of sellers and there aren't a lot of forced sellers either.
So people aren't raising capital to buy and people aren't selling given the pricing environment.
But we believe that will come back.
We've made a significant investment in technology versus acquisitions.
We've acquired people and we believe we're well-positioned there.
So we believe there's a lot of firepower and still if you look at revenue per bank or in other things a lot of room to grow in banking.
For the quarter the quarter looked probably a little better in banking than it really was.
Two factors again M&amp;A has been very strong.
The Lane Berry acquisition has paid off extremely well.
The people have integrated and are performing very very well.
Backlog looks good.
We're continuing -- they're continuing to generate good numbers in the M&amp;A space.
But also this quarter we had a very very strong unusually strong Tax Credit Fund.
So when you add it all into banking maybe banking was down a little more this quarter given the markets boosted by Tax Credit Funds.
But in any normal what I call whatever normal is Tom promised me that this would be a fun business in a normal environment when I joined in '09 so I'm still waiting for that.
Any kind of normalized environment I think we have a lot of room for growth in Equity Capital Markets and we've made bets on people so I think there's positives ahead but we need the market there too to do it.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on the financial adviser recruiting question that was just asked.
Is there anything changing from an economic perspective in terms of what you're having to pay right now or do you see any signs of things changing maybe as competitors are pulling back just given how tough the markets have been? Well we're consistent.
We're not the high payers on the street.
Never have been never plan to be.
We pretty much held our front money maybe its up slightly but we've kind of held and I think that maybe other people have come in and we're having advisers that just say the money isn't worth it that they want to be in an environment that they're used to working in.
So we'll see what happens with some of the bigger banks who are kind of leaders in the front money charge on the employee side and probably 1 independent firm has been a leader on the independent side in front money.
We've been pretty consistent at kind of holding the line in what we consider as economic deal and fair pricing.
So it hadn't gone away maybe not as vicious as it was a year ago but there are still people offering more money than we do for transition.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly just a couple of quick modeling questions here.
When we look at other revenues as you're now reporting them are there any negative marks on investments there that depress that line item from maybe where how we should think about it going forward in a more steady market.
That's the first.
And then secondly just on the COLI losses that impacted the tax rate was there any other income statement impact from the COLI losses this quarter? I think on marks there aren't any inherent build up in negative marks or positive marks outside of how those business are doing in private equity.
So we mark them every quarter to what we think the values are.
We try to do it conservatively but consistently.
So I don't think there's anything that's imminent in the flow outside of how those businesses have performed.
There are big marks up in the June quarter.
As we talked about last time that's what's making the comparison look funny.
This quarter was more normal.
There are also some negatives that flow in there.
There are some OTTI impairments on some securities at the bank and things that are some I call expenses but losses that flow through other revenues as well.
So that's why you had a negative number last year.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just secondly on the COLI issue was there any other income statement impact other than the impact on the tax rate? No the revenue and expense line revenue expenses net in the same line so it's just the tax impact on the revenue side that gets reflected not on the expense side which is why it swings.
There's a gain or loss on the investment and then there's a comp expense on the other side which net against one another.
And the difficult part I think for modeling for you all is if the market's up you gain back that COLI and it reverses.
So you're going -- the flows make it difficult when these markets gyrate the way they did last quarter.
We model it flat starting the year.
And then as we learn more about where the market's trending over the course of the year we try to adjust it.
And then with the COLI portfolio was up $12 million at the end of June year-to-date and up the year down $3 million.
So that's a big swing for 1 quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the investment banking line I mean thinking about it going forward what should we sort of expect from this Tax Credit Fund? Is this something that we should be looking to try to model in on a more consistent basis or is it relatively lumpy? Toms actually overseas that.
I'll let him comment on that.
In a general sense over the longer run the Tax Credit Fund business has grown relative to the competition.
And we're either second or third largest originator of tax credit housing for CRA purposes mainly in banks although the rate of return got high enough to attract in some insurance companies and other general corporations last year.
So the volume we handled this last year was a record volume.
Now prices have recovered meaning the yield returns or rate of returns available to the institutions have dropped.
And that makes it very difficult to know what this year's volume might be compared to last year.
So in the short run I would tell you when they look at the numbers they probably think last year was so good that they should budget down.
The fact is that the investor interest that we see out there and the number of deals in the marketplace are large enough to sustain revenues.
But you just can't tell because the investor waits to commit till they see what kinds of returns they can earn.
And that's why you see such a dramatic effect toward the year end because that's when they're really doing the transactions especially after movements in price.
But it's a much -- it's a much improved business here at the firm and as a result it can have a material effect if they have a big quarter.
And I think yes that business is fund-based so when the funds close you get a little lumpiness.
And so we had just a big quarter.
So I wouldn't -- this would not be an average go-forward quarter.
And again I think the banking business is going to be dependent on the market.
That's the hard thing looking at the quarter.
Backlog is strong.
We don't see companies withdrawing.
They're just waiting and we get any kind of stabilization or stable growth in the market I think we're going to see a flurry of activity but I can't tell you if and when that will happen and that's the tough thing in that business right now.
Paul would tell you that the mandates aren't record highs.
So there's plenty of activity in the channel in theory.
It's just converting it to business.
It's just on relative magnitude the Tax Credit Fund business might be a $10 million to $15 million to $20 million pretax business for us over the course of a year so not something that's going to dramatically move the needle on the capital markets.
It was up 90% just last year so it did have an impact in the year but it will be up again next year.
That business was on the brink and incredible enough because they were 60% of the market it has recovered.
They didn't need tax credits last year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick modeling question for Steve I know it sounds like the Allied Irish acquisition as you were about to close or has closed.
You talked about an additional provision last quarter is that something we should expect in the current quarter? With the closing of the bank it will happen.
Now the loans have not closed subject to regulatory approval and that approval is really tied to the holding company approval.
So that's why the delay.
So if we do close on that package there will be a provision for it but that's what I call good provisions.
We're hopeful that happens toward the end of this quarter with everything in right now.
We're looking until it's about $7.25 million that we had -- that number is still a good number to use for your model.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then can you just remind us what's the remaining authorization on your stock buyback? $50 million.
You might think of that as more evergreen.
We try to bring it back to that $75 million level a couple of times a year but deviates from that.
It's really not.
There's plenty of capital to buy back stock it's just you don't get that opportunity to buy back lots at attractive prices.
We hope we have the opportunity to buy more and we hope we don't.
That's up to the market.
Research Division</strong> [Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of follow-ups.
Maybe it sounds like the bank conversion is going to be happening real soon.
Maybe Steve can articulate what are some of the benefits of this conversion for the Bank business for you guys? We've been really operating like a National Bank.
Our balance sheet composition and the way we conduct our business is more commercial lending oriented.
We're growing our residential business as well.
But for all intents and purposes the actual conversion itself will not impact the way we're conducting our business.
We've been operating in that environment for the past few years.
And as Paul mentioned the OCC allowed us to not have to do the gross up at the end of the year really reflecting how imminent the conversion should be at this point.
So but no change in the business model at this point based on the conversion.
Research Division</strong> But I mean there's some reason why you guys did it initially right? Is it it allows you to have more commercial loans I think? That is correct yes.
We've been doing that anyway and then making this test at the end of the year do these balance sheet gross-up tests.
But it would certainly preclude us needing to do that going forward.
But they've even this year agreed we didn't need to do it even though we hadn't converted yet.
Research Division</strong> So just looking at some of the larger banks and I'm not sure they're great comps but there seem to be an indication that credit quality was improving but a slower pace maybe flattening out.
Your results it looks like credit quality improved quite a bit.
I was actually a little surprised with that.
So I was hoping maybe you could comment on that and maybe just give a little color on the outlook.
At least obviously the next 3 months or so.
I think first you got to look back.
I mean we didn't have the credit issues that other banks had.
We certainly had more than we would have liked.
But if you benchmark our loan our mortgage portfolio against industry numbers and our NIC exams and our C&amp;I against industry comparables we did very very well.
So I think you're seeing us business as usual.
Our numbers don't show any releases of reserves.
I mean we're just -- we're operating like we've always operated except '09 we took a little more credit losses as the markets deteriorated.
But I think comparing us to those institutions with very different loan portfolios is not a good benchmark.
Just looking at some of the segments that we play in our commercial real estate exposures have come down dramatically in the last couple of years and that's where most institutions had issues in addition to the residential portfolio.
Our C&amp;I commercial and industrial portfolio held up very nicely.
We've had very strong credit performance in that segment of our balance sheet and in that business.
But the project finance real estate and we virtually don't have any development in land and construction loans anymore.
So we had a very benign quarter credit-wise in terms of our commercial portfolio and we actually did see some improvement in the residential past dues for the quarter.
So in terms of the credit charges and the residential portfolio that was relatively stable.
And the change quarter-over-quarter in terms of charge-offs and provision expense were related to once again a strong quarter in our commercial portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- maybe just a clarification.
I'm looking for just the exact details on the repurchase.
Sounds like you guys repurchased just under 640 000 shares in the quarter but then I heard 1 million shares now.
I mean is the implication that you actually were able to repurchase shares in October? Yes.
Early October.
The 1 030 000 shares was since the beginning of this repurchase cycle through today.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
It's interesting guys more companies like blocked out around the earnings time.
No they weren't.
I wouldn't actually announce that we refreshed and we were repurchasing stock.
We weren't repurchasing this week if that was your question.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick on the -- to revisit the provision you gave some guidance in terms of dollar amounts which is helpful.
But provisions matching charge-offs seems appropriate given some of the trajectory of credits improving.
But at what point does the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans sort of trough I think coming down due to loan growth? At what level Steve would you like to see that number? I would think that we are anticipating some continued credit improvement over the next 12 to 18 months so we would see that maybe trend down a little bit in terms of allowance to total loans.
We would think that the provision expense for this quarter will hopefully be as Jeff alluded to tied more to growth than downgrades.
But you're always subject to individual loans having some issues and you having to add reserves.
But we would anticipate some slight decrease in terms of allowance to total loans occurring during the course of this year.
Research Division</strong> Is anything on the loan mix going to influence as well or do you sort of like the makeup of the loan book right now? I think that the current mix is going to be relatively stable with the exception of the addition of the $500 million of the Allied Irish portfolio.
When that closes.
That's going to increase the commercial portfolio as a percentage of total assets.
But we're trying to grow both our residential portfolio and our commercial portfolio in balance with one another.
Research Division</strong> And then just real quickly on repurchase did you -- I thought you [indiscernible].
Did you give a dollar amount or average share price the repurchases occurred at? There's $50 million remaining on the $75 million authorization.
$25.
I think you can do the math.
The average is $25 just close enough.
Okay.
Well great.
Appreciate talking sharing this time with you.
It's kind of a tough market.
Here in St.
Petersburg as we see the sun rise in 70-degree weather it's kind of hard to realize we're being impacted by what's happening in Greece in our markets but I guess all the capital markets are right now.
So our net-net business is well-positioned.
We're optimistic medium- and long-term short-term.
And we're a little bit captive by the markets but we're going to continue to operate the business as we have for almost 50 years and continue to build it for the long-term.
And we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thanks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Brooke and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Raymond James Quarterly Analyst Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters a variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2011 annual report on Form 10-K which is available on raymondjames.com and sec.gov.
In addition to those factors in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance.
The possibility that regulatory and other approvals and conditions to the transaction are not received or satisfied on a timely basis or at all.
The possibility that modifications to the terms of the transaction may be required to obtain or satisfy such approvals or conditions; changes in the anticipated timing for closings -- closing the transaction; difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue in earnings growth; the changes in capital markets; and diversion of management time on transaction related issues.
Thank you.
Mr.
Reilly you may begin.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you.
And now that Brooke has explained that we can't forecast the future we'd like to talk about really the first quarter of this year and what I would call kind of a difficult quarter for the capital markets overall in our industry.
But I think solid results given where we are.
As we said we reported net income of $67 325 000 or $0.53 per diluted share.
Again as compared to a record quarter a year ago obviously down but fairly flattish with the last quarter as we put in our release.
We go through the business different business units I think you could see where kind of the headwinds were.
Starting with the Private Client Group our wrap fee assets were down 6% coming into the quarter.
And as you know we bill in advance on our retail accounts and those fees and that gave us a headwind.
In the PCG group we just weren't able to make that up on the commission volume.
But if you look at this quarter with the S&amp;P up 11% we'd estimate we'll reverse that and be up 6% or 7% this quarter as a starting point.
So although we had a -- not over robust because of our beginnings we could make it up in the commissions area.
In the Private Client Group we should be up reversed to a better start this quarter.
As you can see our Financial Advisor account was up slightly in all of our segments as we continue to recruit.
So I think going into the quarter we'll get a better start there.
Probably really the story of the quarter was the Equity Capital Markets business.
As you know the industry didn't have the best quarter in the world and we weren't any different.
We kind of had a lot of pieces going against us.
This isn't really reflective of backlog but just I think of a more uncertain market last quarter.
Underwriting fees in the U.S.
were down slightly but down more significantly in Canada.
We had -- last year our commission volumes were down and ECM is a -- were overall in the market.
And M&amp;A was down.
It was down really because it's just a lumpier business for us.
I don't think again in backlog anything really stands out.
But the quarter -- they were down for the quarter.
And our Tax Credit Funds last quarter had a very big quarter and not as good of a quarter this month -- this quarter.
So if you add that all together we had a lot of headwinds into the Equity Capital Markets segment.
But again not backlog related but I do think market related.
Fixed income kind of started to recover from a poor quarter the previous quarter as it was in the industry.
And especially December was pretty strong and January was off to a good start also.
So -- but -- so most of that Capital Markets numbers you see are really focused on the Equity Capital Markets segment.
On the Asset Management business again we had a slight down-draft because of our billings.
But you can see that the assets under management are up 9%.
So a reasonable quarter given the start we do as you can see from the earnings from the segment do have leverage in that segment.
So as the revenue's up we get a leverage up or down on the pretax profits from there.
So I think again we should bode well a good start on the Asset Management business.
Also if you start to move to the bank very very good quarter probably our second best quarter of earnings.
And everything was kind of a positive for the bank this quarter.
Our assets were up $467 million or 7% both from loan origination and kind of secondary loan purchases.
You could see that we reported that the net loan loss provision was really related to growth.
That doesn't mean we didn't have some ups and downs in the portfolio but credit was very -- still solid.
And really the net part of that loan loss provision had to do with booking the new loans.
Now that $467 million did not include the Irish -- the Allied Irish Bank loan purchase which we do expect to happen in this quarter.
And the reason we're more comfortable with that approval process is we finally have had our approval to convert to a national bank from the OCC and that will result to us in becoming a bank holding company and then a financial holding company under the Federal Reserve.
And we plan that to happen on February 1.
So all in all I think given the markets a decent quarter we should have some -- where we had headwinds coming into this quarter we should have some tailwinds in our favor.
Coming back to this quarter Capital Markets are still uncertain but we feel very good about the -- our position.
Now you can almost say if there's a seasonal quarter in this business I'm not sure the last few years have showed any season it is the fourth quarter of the calendar year so I think the markets may have taken a little vacation.
But the management at Raymond James didn't take any vacation as we were working on the Morgan Keegan transaction.
And I will save the comments talking about that until after Jeff gives us some more color on some of the numbers.
So Jeff let me turn it back over to you.
Okay.
And looking at the overall financials margins actually held up pretty well relative to the previous quarter in fact even higher.
It just was really more a matter of lower revenue generation.
When you see the actual reported results next to last year you need to bear in mind that last year's first quarter was our all-time is our all-time record quarterly earnings of $81.7 million so that one's going to be a tough one to compare against.
A couple of other comments.
The book value per share ended the quarter at $21.34.
Tangible book value ended at $20.76.
There wasn't a whole lot of bouncing around in the equity this particular quarter.
It was pretty much earnings minus our dividend which the board elected the whole flat this year by the way as you may have seen versus a $0.02 raise in the prior year and minus some stock repurchases that we did at the very beginning of the quarter about 394 000 shares in October for $10 million.
That math works pretty close to where we ended equity.
ROE for the quarter was about 10.3% trailing last quarter's 10.7% and last fiscal year just by comparison inclusive of the ARS charges about 11.25% 11.3%.
And exclusive of the ARS charge on an operating-type basis it was about 12.25%.
Two things that are going to fluctuate pretty much regularly with our revenue in pretax income generation up and down are the comp ratio.
As you can see comp ratio is measured as a percentage of revenues while a lot of the variable comp is self-adjusting as the revenue items rise and fall.
We do have a fairly good level of embedded compensation expense.
So as revenues decline that ratio's naturally going to creep up and that's sort of what happened this quarter is it crept up versus last quarter.
Again it was mainly a revenue-driven decline.
The other thing that's going to sort of have the same effect is the tax rate because within our tax calculations there are a couple of items that are relatively fixed such as ISO expense and nondeductible meals in entertainment and things like that that don't vary as much as the revenues bounce around.
So -- and that's also why the tax rate crept up.
So those 2 things.
And of course they would work just the opposite in a robust revenue-type quarter.
I would -- the one other thing I would mention on the  comp ratio is that for comparison to peers I've mentioned this before didn't do the exact math this quarter.
But just by rule of thumb right now based on our relative mix to adjust for peer comparison purposes you have to adjust it downward by about 6 or 7 percentage points to account for the higher payout that we have to independent contractor financial advisors.
The last thing I would really like to talk about is net interest.
It was actually up $7.6 million versus the preceding quarter back to the mid-80s in terms of millions for the quarter.
And this particular quarter was virtually all due to do bank where we had some higher level of fees recognized once again but we also were benefiting from some of the corporate loan growth that we have put on really starting the previous quarter not the December quarter where we're starting to see some good net loan growth again.
And just as a final comment if there are questions granular questions on the bank's results Steve Raney is with us here as well.
Paul? Yes.
I just like to make some quick comments kind of updating you on the Morgan Keegan transaction although I think this is around the ninth business day since the announcement which does seem like months ago because of our work.
That whole process has gone very well.
The top 13 managers have agreed to stay with us through that.
I know that there was one group that made a comment they wondered if we'd have sufficient management for this and that we take little responsibility that we probably didn't give them enough information pre-transaction.
So we have their total management team and our total management team.
If you wanted to follow it say we're kind of overmanaged in this process.
But again as we told you we were very very focused on the transitions getting people on board and moving forward.
The integration process is going well.
We had 85 of 85 branch managers meeting with us for Morgan Keegan understanding our platform going through the fit.
And what we find both in payout structures and cultures are very very strong fit.
We've had our top 6 [ph] fixed income managers on both groups have met here already and then had a further second meeting going through where the integration challenges may be there.
Management teams have gelled very very well and I think performing well.
ECM has made a tour of most of the banking groups already and has met with them one-on-one and then going through the process as well as in Memphis.
And we've had our techs and ops group.
I think 19 people down going through the various areas of integration from compliance to regulatory to ops to tech.
And again means are going very well in a good cultural fit.
So we're very very early in the process and I'm sure there'll be bumps along the road.
But so far very very good.
And all indications are the culture fit that we were anticipating has been spot on as well as I've been to Memphis addressing 800 of their people on the process.
We're going through our filings from the Hart-Scott -- the DOJ filing getting ready in the Fed not really approvals but going through the process of showing them where we are in this in the process and why we think it's a good fit.
So on that all on board early days.
And we feel very good about it.
And we realized it's a lot of work.
And we're making sure that management is focused both on continuing to deliver results as we go through this integration.
So we are very very busy.
And we hope to close it at the end of the quarter as our target date because it fits in nicely with the quarter and what we think the various approval timings and integration processes will be.
So with that in the room you've heard from Jeff we have our Chairman Tom James; Paul Matecki Legal returning from the back; and Jennifer Ackart our Controller all here.
And let's go ahead Brooke and open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joel Jeffrey.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just -- I appreciate some of the color you gave on sort of what was going on in the Capital Markets business.
Can you give us a breakdown more specifically on the revenues that came out in the fixed income business versus the equities business on the trading side? On the trading almost all of our trading profits more than -- usually more than 100% of our trading profits are fixed income.
We don't take proprietary positions.
So we just have facilitation losses in ECM.
And so the profits if you look at trading profit numbers more than 100% is fixed income.
But I can tell you it was skewed to December too.
The market started picking up and have continued to pick up from a slower start at the beginning of the quarter and it continued to gain speed.
But it's almost all fixed income.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I probably should have said brokerage not itself as trading.
Joel you're referring to commissions or...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes the institutional commissions for fixed income versus equity.
Equity Capital Markets was relatively flat with last quarter so is fixed income.
But not really a big variation versus the preceding quarter.
Commissions in capital markets were generally flat overall.
So it was really more on the shortfall from the previous quarters on the banking side not on the brokerage side.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about the...
And I'm sorry one more point.
There's another operation within capital markets called Tax Credit Funds which you've heard us talk about in the past which had a very very big quarter in September.
It was pretty normal as they build throughout the year in a much -- the clients' probably $10 million swing in revenues between the last quarter and this one and that's just that operation.
But that exacerbates it to some extent.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about the growth you guys have had at the bank in the loan portfolio like can you talk -- are you doing anything differently in terms of the strategy on how you're growing the loan portfolio? Is it still more acquired loans? Or is there a push to do some fort of a organic origination? The strategy hasn't changed.
And we've been an organic originator but when we find times we go into the secondary markets and get good loans.
And usually to add on the positions we continue to be opportunistic in that.
So...
The only change I would mention is as you've heard us say is we're trying to get ourselves more into a lead position in some of these particularly with our own Equity Capital Markets clients to get into more of a fee-generating type of role with respect to some of these facilities instead of being just a participant.
And Joel we are doing more mortgage loan originations residential mortgage originations on our own platform now too.
We had our biggest quarter ever in December in that business.
And that led to us a residential loan thing roughly flat quarter-over-quarter.
So that new production replaced the runoff in the quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just staying with the bank I apologize if I missed it earlier but what was the reason again for the pickup in net interest spread quarter-over-quarter? Average loan balances were higher quarter-over-quarter.
We used more of the -- of our cash that was sitting there earning a very very low spread.
And then there was incrementally some additional corporate loan fees that were taken into income as a result of paydowns and payoff of loans.
So those 2 factors contributed to the higher net interest margin.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is this sort of a sustainable level? Or do you think the fees were sort of onetime? Does it come back down a little bit? Yes.
There's been a little volatility in that Joel quarter-over-quarter.
The December quarter was higher than September but it was actually about equal to the prior December 2010 quarter.
Loan balances for this quarter for the March quarter actually is going to be higher than the prior quarter.
So we've been intentionally putting some of our liquidity to work.
I would mention that I would not expect our corporate loan growth absent the closing of the Allied Irish purchase that Paul referenced that we're anticipating closing later on this month.
Absent that excluding that we would anticipate loan balances to grow at a lower rate this year -- this quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just I guess lastly on the Allied Irish.
Are you guys still expecting to take an upfront provision I think it was $7 million you talked about? Yes.
That will be impacted by the final loan balance that we're going to be closing on.
I think that the loan balance may be a little bit lower now as it's taken more time to get this close.
It could be below -- it could be between $6 million and $7 million at this point Joel.
Your next question comes from Daniel Harris.
Research Division</strong> So as the transition happens to the Fed versus your prior regulator I was wondering if you see any changes in how you guys evaluate your loan portfolio your capital -- or your ability to upstream capital in any way? I mean one of the things we saw last night in a bank that moved from the OTC -- OTS to the OCC was a pretty big qualitative adjustment.
I was wondering if you can comment on anything like that.
Yes.
First we are -- -- we have -- we're already under Fed jurisdiction as a holding company so that's not really the change.
It's just the form of going from a thrift holding company to a bank and financial holding company.
As far as the OCC you have to remember that most of our loans are shared national credits and have been reviewed by the OCC always.
And the OCS has taken kind of those ratings because that's the Fed's most secured national credits of the originator.
So the Fed's been in here in a pre-exam.
They're back in.
I'm sure there'll be slight differences.
But I think philosophically we don't anticipate really any changes of significance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good.
Switching gears here to the recent transaction how does that deal do 2 things: first of all impact your aggressiveness in pursuing new advisors this year and what could be a decent environment given retention bonus roll-offs; and then two thoughts about the -- any potential acquisition in the Asset Management which you guys have been focused on for the last few years? I think we looked at both of those as independent.
I mean I'm not going to say there's going to be a 0 management distraction through the integration but our goal has always been organic growth.
We have our home offices that are up.
And we continue to bring people through.
We're very focused on recruiting.
And through this -- after -- through this transaction and after we're going to focus on organic growth as we always have.
So this was just an unusual opportunity to bring it in.
So we're going to continue to recruit on both sides both the employee side which is what Morgan Keegan really is and the independent side where management is not really involved as much on the integration.
They're continuing to recruit.
So our focus on recruiting really hasn't changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it right to think that this year should be on a relative basis better versus last year as the maturation of those retention bonuses sort of hits 3-plus years that were really granted in 2009 and if anything we should see an acceleration off of what seem like a little bit of a decline in this current quarter in headcount? Yes.
We -- this current quarter we're actually up in headcount.
But the home offices its numbers are up.
So we would anticipate that's usually a leading indicator of recruiting.
The people sign on and so we would anticipate it being improving this quarter over last quarter -- I mean this year over last year.
Your next question comes from Hugh Miller.
LLC</strong> I had a couple of questions on the bank.
I guess first Steve you sort of talked a little bit about the sustainability of the NIM given the loan portfolio expansion maybe some nonrecurring benefits from the paydowns in the quarter but also just an improvement in the level of nonperforming assets.
I was wondering though can you -- I don't think you really mentioned about what your view is about the sustainability of the adjusted NIM from the current quarter.
I think that it's -- there's some pressure on it that we've talked about.
I think that it's within 10 or 15 basis points of that over the next 12 months is...
Which is higher than we did before and the Canadian acquisition will only help that.
Yes that's correct.
That will help our yield.
We again had to try to be conservative in our modeling but it's held up higher than we would have forecast.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I guess as we think about the dynamics of your operations working at a single office your ability to kind of purchase loans and participate in some of the shared national credits we're obviously seeing some improvements in the operating margin both from the leverage and also the improved asset quality.
But how should we be thinking about the incremental operating margin as a bank and kind of takeout margins as you look at that business? I don't see a material change from this point forward.
We are going to close on the Allied Irish purchase.
We had a pretty dramatic growth in the December quarter.
I think that we're going to intentionally -- I think the growth pattern's going to be slower going forward over the next few quarter.
We're going to obviously be integrating this Canadian acquisition.
We've already as I've mentioned in prior quarters here we've started doing some business in Canada.
We have a handful of loans to Canadian-based companies that we have an institutional relationship with.
We are growing our mortgage business.
But I think that it's going to be relatively nominal growth from this point forward over the next year or so.
And I think that our operating margin should be relatively consistent.
And we've been able to leverage a very unique business model.
We have a very low FTE and therefore our operating efficiencies are pretty high at this point.
But I don't anticipate dramatic improvement in that going forward.
We are kind of targeting a net growth of $1 billion in loans for the year.
And we -- you've seen for $450 million of it in the first quarter and Canada's going to be another $400 million.
So it won't take much in addition to that to get to our budgeted levels.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I appreciate the insight there.
I guess moving to some questions in the retail segment I know last year in December you kind of had a substantial lift in retail commissions from the rollout of your annual best ideas product.
I was wondering how much of a fact did that kind of played for this December whether or not it was a strong benefit? That was actually down slightly.
So it's not a huge impact.
But it's about half of what it was last year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I realized that there's typically kind of a lag and we see a reduction in market volatility and when you might see clients start to kind of improve their interest in kind of taking on some risks and possibly getting a little bit more positive about equity investing.
I was just wondering whether or not in January if your hearing anything from your advisers if they kind of sense that this may be on the cusp of starting to happen or if that's not really much of a factor.
I think that's really the call.
The investors are conservative and have been investing not to lose money.
And certainly up markets help and you see an increase.
But I don't think you're going to take 20 days and change the attitude after people have been through last year certainly.
I think the election's adding a lot of uncertainty and people are waiting.
So we're just anticipating kind of this zone of range of market.
And so I think things get sorted out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And last question I have is on the Capital Markets business.
I mean obviously you talked about the backlog.
You talked about the climate having to kind of improve in order to see some improvement in that business.
I was wondering I guess what areas within the Equity Capital Markets do you really see poised for a rebound ahead of the others? What are you more excited about? And what do you think has to happen at this point now in order to kind of get the ball rolling? We've got -- obviously our energy and our REIT markets have performed relatively well.
And the better the markets even the better the activity in there because we're very well positioned.
We certainly made a bet on tech.
And those markets aren't robust to the extent tech rebounds will do better there.
I think it's just really across the board in the M&amp;A business we're pretty broad.
And that backlog looks good.
And obviously the better the market generally the better activity there right now.
So we -- and the course with the Howe Barnes we've made a bet in the big space.
And this is in the price range.
What happened in the last quarter if you look at banking pricing a lot of banks didn't want to sell at that price.
And a lot of banks didn't want to raise equity with that pricing.
So the extent that market which has picked up since then continues to be solid I think we'll get better performance there too.
So...
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Devin Ryan.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Almost all my questions have been asked here but just maybe a couple of follow-ups to some prior questions.
So the Allied Irish portfolio acquisition I think the yield that you guys had been given before was a little bit over 7% on an unhedged basis.
Is that still the case given a little bit of shrinkage there? And how much hedging do you guys can speak to in there? Yes.
Devin I would still say that's approximately the yield that we're anticipating in the portfolio on an unhedged basis.
We're going through as we're now getting a lot closer to closing on this finalizing all of our hedging strategies.
We've been talking to some hedging consulting firms relying on some expertise that we have because we do provide some hedging for our borrowing clients with our Capital Markets professionals.
So we're working through that right now.
So I don't really have an answer in terms of -- the execution of that hedging has not been finalized yet.
But the yield is still approximately in that 7-plus percent range.
I think it's fair statement to say we would hedge -- hedge is pretty substantially because we're not anxious to have FX gains and losses in the $5 million to $10 plus million range bouncing around every quarter in the banks or loans.
Yes.
We're having to go through and forecast what we anticipate paydowns and new advances to be in new business.
And so there's the...
Part art part science.
Yes.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just in terms of moving from the OTS to the OCC is there any added or onetime expenses as a result of that? And then will that also free up any capital just given how some loans will be classified? I think it will first run on really onetime expenses outside of what seem like a perpetual filing cost -- professional expenses.
So there are no real changes in levels of expenses from there.
And in terms of capital it's actually because we really have been operating more like a commercial bank that does free up capital because we got into some thrift real estate test that actually added to capital.
But that frees up.
We're actually in the middle of our safety and soundness exam right now Devin.
And as you know we went through a pre-conversion exam in the fall.
And we went through one a few years ago.
So we've had a lot of prior dealings with the OCC.
And now it's a merged agency and we actually have some of our former examination team on the OTS that are still involved with us.
So not a terrible amount of change and we're certainly prepared for any of -- we're well aware now of what to expect and how we'll be working with them.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so I'm assuming that that amount of capital that's freed up was already contemplated prior to the Morgan Keegan deal and the capital raise plans for that.
Yes yes.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Great.
And then just within other expenses.
I know that item can bounce around quite a bit from quarter to quarter.
But it looked quite a bit lower than it has in recent quarters.
So I don't know if there's any color you can give there whether or not that's sustainable or that should kind of pick back up in maybe the upper 20s or $30 million a quarter where it has been.
You got us scrambling.
Devin I would tell you it's running a little bit lower than the first.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fine.
And then just lastly another cleanup item here just within the minority interest.
I know that there's a number of items that can impact that.
But just wanted to see if there's anything given that that number was fairly high again this quarter.
I want to see maybe what's in there.
We're looking again here Devin.
Yes.
That wasn't coming because Devin that was particularly out of line.
That's the same as the last -- as the preceding quarter.
But that's the minority holder share losses in Latin America and the U.K.
some of the consolidated Tax Credit Funds those 3 businesses.
Last year we had some big banking fees and things in Latin America that caused us to actually go the other way more than we have in recent history.
But these are all add-backs to earnings as you can see.
[Operator Instructions] Let me make a clarification while we can.
There seems to be some confusion in the room when Joel Jeffrey was on the line and asked about capital markets commission volumes.
We had said they're pretty flat.
We actually were comparing it to the immediately preceding quarter not to the last year's first quarter which was a much more active equity underwriting environment et cetera.
They're down over 20% from last year's first quarter but they're about flat with the immediately preceding quarter.
I can't remember which one he was asking about but we answered it relative to the preceding quarter.
At this time there are no further questions.
Well great.
We thank you for joining us this morning.
I think that we have some tailwinds starting this quarter but the market is certainly uncertain.
Our businesses I do think are operating in good shape.
We're focused both still on delivering the numbers this quarter in Morgan Keegan.
So we're busy over here but we're optimistic really about both.
So thank you for joining us this morning and we'll talk to you again soon.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Yes you're live sir.
Okay.
Thank you.
This is Paul Reilly in Raymond James.
I'm going to turn over to Paul Matecki to read our FD disclosure.
Thanks Paul.
To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation or regulatory proceedings and other similar matters a variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2011 annual report on Form 10-K which is available at raymondjames.com or sec.gov.
In addition to those factors in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could possibly cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance.
These include difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue in earnings growth; changes in capital markets; and diversion of management time on the transaction related issues.
Thank you Paul and what a rousing way to start a conference call with a good FD disclosure.
We're going to go through I guess step by step in the conference call to make sure we understand the pieces and talk a little bit about the quarter and kind of the non-GAAP adjustments and how I think the basic operating business is doing and go through the segments.
Jeff will then go through a little more detail in some of the other things and then we'll get into the Morgan Keegan combination which I know a number of you have questions about.
First I really believe we had a strong quarter in an improving environment.
Our net revenues up 11% at $871 million plus and our non-GAAP pretax earnings up 22%.
Now we are doing that off a weaker December ending quarter and if you go again to a year ago we are comparing -- we're up only 3% or 2% of the net revenues that are very very strong quarter if we can remember the markets a year ago that we're comparing to.
But certainly a very very solid trend really driven by rising asset values are a strong equity market.
Our assets under administration were up 8% and had a record of $292 billion and this is again without any Morgan Keegan numbers we closed after the quarter ended and our assets under management up 11% at $39 billion.
So on the basis of that as you know we bill a lot of assets in advance.
We've started with tailwinds in that quarter and again with the S&amp;P up 12% this quarter should portend well to a strong start to our next quarter.
Starting with the Private Client Group.
The second quarter was really driven by those asset values and again with the tailwinds in our billings we had record productivity per advisor at $361 million at RJFS and $540 000 -- I'm sorry I wish it was million $361 000 at RJFS and $546 000 at Raymond James Associates our employee division.
We also had a net increase of 42 advisors.
As recruiting continues to ramp up one of the slight concerns when we announced the Morgan Keegan acquisition we felt that recruiting was taking up the impact.
We were worried about an impact.
There's been no negative impact and I think as we talk to recruit the positive impact that we're growing the business and the backlog of home office visits continues to improve.
So as we go into the third quarter with an S&amp;P up again and more advisers we should be off to a good start.
The revenue growth there was offset by comp expense some of that was additional personnel but a big chunk of that is what I call seasonal if you can use that word.
The first quarter our raises hit starting in January our FICA payments and taxes start over so we always have a first quarter impact on comp.
The other areas we've told -- we talked about before as we have been ramping up our technology expenditures.
We've got some very exciting technology rolling out including a new advisers desktop starting in May and it's a strategic investment we've made across the firm and that did have some impact on the numbers for the quarter.
In the capital markets area ECM had a big recovery really since again against a very weak December quarter.
We can number what happened at the end of last year the markets starting that September really shut down.
The underwriting part of our business in IPO was slow in January and February as it was in the quarter but really picked up in March and has continued up stronger in April and who knows what happens day-to-day in that business.
But if you look to the -- commissions were up underwriting revenues were up versus last quarter but M&amp;A activity was down slightly.
So again improving significantly from a very weak market the quarter before but certainly not at the levels that we were a year ago where we had a strong equity capital markets.
Moving to fixed income.
Fixed income has been kind of a steady producer for us with the announcement of Morgan Keegan.
I think people had some concerns but again we're showing a strengthening -- slight strengthening through the quarter for fixed income and trading profits and commissions.
So business is performing very very well.
Asset Management again it's kind of our Steady Eddy business.
Assets were up both from market appreciation as we've talked about earlier and continued net inflows.
So off the back of a 4% increase in the revenue side.
We had a 5% increase in profits and again the markets coming in should portend well for a good start this quarter.
The bank had outstanding performance for the quarter record earnings basically 2 factors here.
We've continued to grow loans as you remember $400 million of that was the Allied Irish Bank loan portfolio that we did finally close on that drove significant loan growth as well as other loan growth.
As you can see through this year we've had good loan growth and improving credit.
If you look at the loan loss provision there almost all of it was attributed to the Allied Irish Bank acquisition.
So we've had strong credit metrics and improvements and pay off of loans that have continued to I think show improving credit performance of the bank.
What I'm really proud at I think we had solid operating performance but this is all accomplished while we were working on the Morgan Keegan integration.
So people were doing their day job and the other job and when we get into the acquisition expenses you're going to see that those costs are really only adjusted for direct costs of that acquisition and acquisition planning and it doesn't include the massive amounts of people time and other efforts that are going focused to integrate Morgan Keegan which I'll get to that one in a minute but that has gone extremely well.
We've got a lot of work to do.
We can't declare victory yet as I said in the release but we're very pleased with where we are to date.
Moving into the -- projecting into the third quarter based on the S&amp;P up and improved ECM environments net recruiting and a strong loan book at the bank and good credit I think portends positively to third quarter and we've also have to add the small factor of Morgan Keegan combination as we report next quarter.
So with that I'll turn it over to Jeff Julien to give you a little more color.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
I just want to reiterate that we had a whole host of records this quarter.
I think that's important to note going into the second half of the year.
We had both record gross in net revenues record Private Client Group revenues record Private Client Group average productivity record assets under administration record assets under management record bank pretax earnings for the quarter and although this one's a little bit out there if you use a non-GAAP section of our release that's actually a record pretax income number for a quarter for us.
Non-GAAP record pretax.
Paul said if we pick the right expenses to exclude we can get a lot of records every quarter.
A couple of other comments I'll make to augment Paul's description of what happened in the segments.
We had a nice jump in book value.
I'm sure you noticed it's amazing what can happen when you do an offering at 1.5x book value during the quarter.
So that was somewhat as expected.
Tangible book value did not see quite the same increase.
Our shareholders equity now exceeds $3 billion.
It's nice not to had have to explain the tax rate for the quarter.
I'm mentioning it but just to say I don't have to say anything about it.
It was about 38.25% for this quarter and 38.75% for the year to date which is about where it should be.
We got some benefit from the appreciation in COLI but as I point out in prior periods it's offset by some of the nondeductible meals and entertainment and other things that hit our books.
These rates are about where it should be in a normalized environment on a year-to-date basis.
We talked about the $19.6 million of hard acquisition expenses in the non-GAAP measure.
That's the line item that you see in the P&amp;L.
To that when we did our non-GAAP presentation we also included about $1.7 million of interest expense which is in interest expense not in that $19.6 million which relate to the debt offerings that we did ahead of time prior to the actual acquisition.
And we also factored in about 3% dilution from the share offering that we did in mid-February in anticipation of the acquisition.
Those things all added together came up with that $0.12 impact related to the Morgan Keegan acquisition.
The ROE for the quarter as reported was 9.62% again on a non-GAAP basis so that would be about 12.2%.
And on a year-to-date basis it was 9.83% reported again on a non-GAAP excluding those costs what we'll call operating -- core operating earnings was about 11.25% that's year to date.
I think the surprises for the quarter relative to what was projected and I've read some of your comments this morning.
The bank loan loss provision I think was a surprise it was the Allied Irish portfolio shrunk from the time we initially started talking to them to the time we consummated the transaction.
So our provision for that originally started at somewhere around $7 million ended up only being about $5 million.
But the rest of the entire bank's portfolio on a net basis was really yielded no provision expense for the quarter.
We had some net growth which there was some provision expense for but we also had a lot of credit improvements payoffs pay downs things like that that had the opposite effect.
So it was basically a net neutral other than the Allied Irish acquisition which I think was a surprise maybe even a little bit to us that it was at that level for the quarter.
Obviously the net interest margin at the bank held up a little better than at least I expected early on in the quarter thus net interest earnings a little better.
Again we had some of these payoffs pay downs which yielded fees but we also have adding the Allied Irish in at a fairly high average coupon certainly helps the net interest margin as well.
So that will maybe be a little higher going forward than it has been in the past.
Another surprise I think you all pointed to other revenues.
Well if you look at our segment basis that's really in the Proprietary Capital segment.
We had a fairly significant writeups and distributions received from some of the private equity funds in this quarter.
That's a lumpy number very very hard for us to predict.
As you all point out usually it's a June quarter event as we get the audited statements for all the smaller ones that we're invested in but there are these larger ones that some of which we even consolidate that we mark on a quarterly basis and that's what happened this quarter.
Now not much of that as you can see in the segment results fell to the bottom line.
We do consolidate one fund in particular that we have about a 14% net interest in.
So a lot of that comes out to a minority interest but it did impact the revenue line.
I'd also want to make a comment on the number of lead managed deals.
If you've been tracking that from our monthly operating statistics to now it looks like we had one deal in the March month.
Well that obviously wasn't true.
I think you know how active it was.
We made the decision at the end of the quarter here to exclude from that total the RJF offerings which we were a joint book runner on all 3 of them to debt on equity but we didn't think it appropriate to include those.
We also made the decision to exclude some of these at-the-market deals.
These continuous offerings there were about 5 of those during in the quarter.
So March was much more active than it appears.
It was the monthly operating statistics that included those things that I mentioned that we have now excluded at the final count here for the quarter.
I'll make a couple of comments on the year-to-date segment information on the press release.
As you can see again we're comparing against a very good 6 months a year ago and then looking forward last year you know we ended up with a record year last year while the June quarter last year had a $45 million pretax charge for ARS in it for starters but then we also had a very difficult capital markets environment in the fourth quarter last year.
So the first half of last year was much better than the second half.
While we've just about equaled that first half this year we're about dead on in terms of net -- in terms of total revenues.
We're a little bit behind even excluding the acquisition related expenses.
We're a little bit behind in total pretax income but again -- so if you look at it on a big picture basis we're just a little bit behind where we were on an earnings basis this time last year and we had all these negative impacts in the second half of last year.
So that should give us some optimism looking into the second half of this year.
In terms of the earnings you can see for the 6 months Private Client Group's about 6% behind where they were a year ago.
Paul mentioned some of the factors in our methodology the most of operations in IT was parts that aren't allocated to other segments end up in the Private Client Group segment and IT expenditures and people have been a large factor in Private Client Group not surpassing the prior year yet.
Capital markets we talked about.
Last year's first 6 months was a strongest period we'd had in sometime.
So that's going to be a tough comparison and it really is all Equity Capital Markets this shortfall from versus the prior year fixed income slightly ahead of where they were on a year-to-date basis last year.
Asset Management stuff as you would expect modestly.
We expect again some sequential improvement.
As you've heard we're at the asset level.
So you see where the asset level started the third quarter and then the bank is eclipsing all records here both from an earnings and a credit perspective.
So we go into the second half I think with some optimism.
The last thing I'll mention is on the other segment you can see that there's all of the acquisition related expenses even though they've been incurred by all the segments we're putting them all in the other segment for convenience.
So that entire $20 million is down there in the other segment and the other thing impacting that of course is the additional corporate interest from our April offering a year ago as well as the $1.7 million that I mentioned from the offerings we did in anticipation of the acquisition.
So a lot of facts and figures but at the end of the day I think a good quarter and I know that we need to talk a little bit more about what to expect from acquisition related expenses going forward.
So for that I'll turn it back over to Paul.
Thank you.
So I think you know if you look at the operating statistics I'm kind of proud of the organization as they've taken on their day job of running their business and the other day job of planning on the integration now well into the integration.
It's great to have solid operating results going in.
And I think we're starting -- certainly it started the quarter with tailwinds but it's been an interesting market the last few years.
So we're not putting anything in the bank.
Jeff read a lot of records off to start with but I'm sure we'll have records next quarter just because of the combination then the important thing's is going to be how we do on the bottom line in our earnings per share which as we've said we didn't expect this transaction to be immediately accretive but believe strategically it will be accretive and very very strong.
I do want to note as I get into the MK acquisition net-net we're ahead on retention and we're behind -- we're doing better on our budget of costs slightly.
Ahead meaning we've spent a little less than we've planned.
Ahead on retention in terms of percentage of people we've retained.
We've had less overlap than we thought in some of the businesses so we severed a little less although it's a big number.
And you have to remember too that our MK acquisition the numbers were based on market conditions in December.
We use the December trailing 12 so part of the purchase price adjustment you saw was strong performance at Morgan Keegan.
We haven't audited them and we can't give you those numbers.
But in the first quarter -- so a lot of the trends that impacted us or impacting them I can't take this -- it's a little bit of a different business but we've got some room because of that if we can keep the people which is the focus because the improved conditions in the quarter for them also.
We are ahead of retention as we said.
Of those we made offers to in PCG and retention we've had 98% of them still here at the quarter and so we've done better in the retention side than we assumed.
But we know we'll lose a few more advisors.
We don't want to.
It's just right so far to date it's been a smattering 1 or 2 here no particular direction and just a handful of regrettable losses.
But in this market we've always had some given the checks that are put out but we are ahead of our retention estimates to date and our job over the next year is to make sure that we make people feel at home.
So we've done very very well there.
Fixed income similarly we had less overlap so although severance numbers as we talk about as we look forward are significant across the organization there was less in fixed income and our revenue per producer has been growing there also.
So we're hopeful but we expect more fallout as you merge accounts and move accounts around you do lose some sales and trading folks.
But again so far to date we're ahead of our own budgets and estimates but we don't think that that's done yet and we'll watch closely over this next couple of quarters.
Our retention expenses that we've spent are below our estimates mainly on the capital market side of the business.
We've spent less in our issues totally than we originally projected in estimates.
We're about slightly below but above on our projections on the PCG Group.
So we feel good about those too.
But this is all early.
We have -- we know the combinations here.
We are we have fixed income trading off one group of inventories.
We have Equity Capital Markets basically all consolidated into the RJA business and the PCG we're operating dual systems but utilizing marketing branding a lot of other things and trying to use all of our resources marketing research and everything we can help them during this transition period before we make a systems change over.
So so far so good but a lot of work ahead of us.
So we're optimistic but know we have a lot of things to do.
With that Jeff I don't know if you want to make anymore particular comments? It's hard for us to really accurately project where we're going to be on these future acquisition-related costs.
We had originally projected I think $70 million for the fiscal year.
The interest will stop now so it's going to be just the remaining severance related costs and other integration costs that come up for the rest of the year.
And we don't have a great handle on that because it's going to be a continuing evolving number.
But I guess if we had to give you a projection for the rest of the fiscal year it'd probably be in the $40 million range plus the $20 million we've already spent gives us $60 million which will probably come in a little under the $70 million we originally projected.
But that's one of these things kind of swallowed up in Paul's forward-looking comments earlier.
Paul Matecki our counsel.
There's a good chunk that we've incurred in -- that we'll incur in this quarter especially severance.
But as we've told you we've been deliberate in terms of the integration going step-by-step and keeping support levels up.
But so far so good the market continues to be reasonably solid.
I think the basic business is in good shape and we're focusing on working hard in retentions and no red flags yet on the integration just a lot of work ahead of us.
So with that I'm going to go ahead and open it up for questions.
I'm sure you have a number of them today.
And -- so Jennifer why don't you go ahead and ask for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from Joel Jeffrey.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
On Morgan Keegan in terms of their fee-based assets and the additions that you'll get from that deal did they -- can you give us what the level was at the end of the quarter? And do they typically sort of price off at quarter end levels as well? We're thinking how to answer that one.
We're going through the process actually now and again not having -- we're just finishing kind of the opening audit and balance sheet so that's why there's a little bit of hesitance here on the numbers.
They have more of a stock brokerage business than an asset management sized a little less fee-based.
So we just don't want to give you a number that's not totally accurate yet.
That's the only hesitation.
You know they've got $70 billion in retail assets that will be coming over.
It'll be on our books.
It won't be coming over until next year sometime.
But of that I think -- we think the numbers just in terms of wrapped fee we should have a better handle on that I guess and we do.
It's something around $8 billion is the number we've been told.
They're going to make sure they pick up outside discretionary as well as our equivalent nondiscretionary to make sure we get the total correct not near the percentage that we've got where we've got 1/3 of our client assets in wrapped fee-type arrangements over $90 billion including discretionary and nondiscretionary.
Their number's between 10% and 15%.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do those typically price off quarter end levels? I believe they're quarterly in advance like -- it's sort of the industry norm.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the capital markets revenues can you just give us a breakdown in terms of -- on the institutional side what the equity commission line was versus the fixed income institutional line? Do we have it here? For the quarter you're talking about? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What were you asking? An absolute number? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just the level of revenues generated by institution against traditional fixed income business versus the institutional equities business.
They're about equal at about $36 million each for the quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess just lastly in terms of -- you guys sound like you had some solid growth at the bank outside the Allied Irish deal.
How should we think about loan growth going forward and sort of what you're focusing on there? Joel it's Steve.
I would anticipate it's growth going forward kind of in the 6% to 7% on an annual basis for the next couple of years.
We think that this quarter growth would be maybe $150 million to $200 million in the loan portfolio.
The one item that will be a little unique is and we don't anticipate it closing this quarter we anticipate it being in the September quarter but we're working on a plan to purchase the securities face loans from Regions Bank that were referred by Morgan Keegan Financial Advisers.
That's about $200 million.
So add of that I think that kind of a good forecast fee to use would be loan growth in the 6% to 7% per year for the next couple of years.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that would be inclusive of the growth you've already experienced this year? Well really no.
I would say going forward I would say obviously the Canadian portfolio that was acquired this quarter and then we had a very robust quarter in the December quarter.
So that was really higher than that forecast I'm giving you going forward.
I think you're going to see some more temperate growth going forward kind of in the 6% to 7% range.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the types of loans are they the similar sort of the commercial type loans? Yes I mean we're trying to grow our residential portfolio as well which typically has lower reserves on it compared to the corporate portfolio but I would say that the asset mix going forward it'll be roughly equal to what the current mix is.
It may be slightly more heavily skewed towards corporate which would have more reserves associated with it.
Joel before you go let me correct what we said.
I gave you the domestic numbers only.
When we add Canada and some of the international operations x total equity institutional commissions are about $56 million fixed income is $36 million.
The next question is from Chris Harris.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a really record quarter in Private Client.
You guys talked about that great metrics great production we're seeing there in that business.
I'm really wondering how we can reconcile that strong performance relative to I guess some of the other indicators we're seeing that suggests volumes really haven't picked up and referencing kind of trading volumes trading activity exchange volumes margin borrowing looks like it's coming down retail funds originally not all that robust either.
So just wondering if you guys could help us think about that how your advisers and clients continue to stay active relative to what we're seeing in the market.
Yes.
We've got a strong fee-based billing business.
And so as the markets go up it really drives our commissions more than anything more than the trading volume.
So we've continued to push our advisers for years to be in the fee-based business to be on the side of the clients so in down markets we get downdraft and in up markets we get updrafts and that's really driving the business and driving the numbers in PCG as well as our increasing productivity which is market and asset gathering driven and net recruiting so...
If you look at the commission line in Private Client Group commission and fee line more than 60% of it is fee-based recurring revenues.
Fee-based meaning that includes things that are time-based as opposed to transaction-based.
As that sort of differentiates us I think from some of the other Private Client Group comparables.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the NIM nice increase in the quarter you mentioned.
I'm just wondering how much of that is related to the allied transactions? In other words if you backed out that deal what would NIM have been in the quarter? Yes Chris we had one month impact of the Canadian loans there was some extraordinary pay downs in that portfolio even in the 1 month that we had it which had an impact.
That portfolio has NIM in the 8% range going forward.
So that's going to have more impact this quarter because we're going to have the full -- the full impact for the entire quarter.
I don't know -- I don't have the number off the top of my head what the NIM would have been absent Canada.
Every quarter we have fee recognition on pay downs and payoffs of loans that can be rather lumpy and can skew the NIM number.
I do think that going forward kind of a 3.50% to 3.60% NIM is kind of a good number to use.
Which is higher than we've guided in the past because both we had excess cash balance in the past and then we also didn't have this other portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and on the pay downs what is the average yield on those loans versus the new loans that you're originating today? Well it's really been -- when Jeff mentioned that in his comments those pay downs that impacted provision were loans where we had higher reserves on them so the NIM on those loans compared to what we're doing on a go forward basis are approximately equal to one another.
So no impact to NIM but it does have an impact or its impacted us positively over the last few quarters in terms of problem loans loans that we have higher reserves on paying down getting good resolution on them either paying down restructuring paying off entirely.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then last question for me real quick on the Morgan Keegan transaction.
You had mentioned that a little less overlap than you would have thought in the capital markets and so maybe fewer headcount reduction there.
What are you guys assuming for how the environment is going to progress over the next year or so as you think about making your employment decisions or your headcount decisions in capital markets? First let me talk about the overlap.
We had a significant overlap in the Equity Capital Markets business.
We knew that going in.
I think our coverage overlap was 86% or something.
So we knew we had overlap coming in but essentially we ended up with more people than we thought just good professionals and we kept all the good people we could in there.
In fixed income we were actually surprised.
Again still a good number of severed folks but less overlap and what we want to do is we think that will through a natural attrition fall a little bit.
But we're trying to keep people on higher service levels.
And assuming that the market -- you know our strategy over time has been to try to keep people in down markets and we don't waste out and pay a lot to try to hire people in up markets so our focuses tend to -- to the extent we can is carry them down as markets are slower and they pick up we get the benefit of it.
And it's been a strategy that's paid off well for over 20 years here being public.
And I don't see any difference in our strategy right now.
Your next question is from Devin Ryan.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> You guys had a nice quarter for SA hiring.
So with the Morgan Keegan integration underway I just wanted to get a sense of whether you guys are backed off of your hiring efforts outside of the deal or whether you can do both simultaneously? Absolutely not.
I think in the ECM fixed income business so we're not being as aggressive.
We're hiring folks as we're still slotting people in because the size of those businesses and our position -- we are looking at spot hiring in those areas.
But in the Private Client Group we are hiring full speed.
We find good people that willing to come in.
And again we're not leaders in transition assistance in the industry by a long shot but we're continuing hiring.
In fact hiring pace has picked up as you can see in the quarter.
Our home office visits have picked up and we were concerned that the acquisition may slow that down but I actually think it's helped that people see that we're investing in the business where we think we have a different model of being FA centric and with our advisers choice platform and we know we're -- we don't want to slow down in hiring.
In fact even Morgan Keegan is starting to hire again for the first time in a long time for them and now it's been resolved.
So we will go with the market and continue to hire any time we can good people.
We haven't slowed that down at all in the Private Client Group.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Does it feel like the competitive environment maybe has changed a bit? Cause I just know that a year ago things were incredibly competitive and there was big upfront packages and so that put a little bit of damper on the ability to hire.
So has that dynamic changed at all more recently? The dynamic in that there's still big packages out there.
The dynamic we've seen are people that have gone through mergers with packages that are wearing down.
I just said it's not the right environment for them.
That's not a slam on the other firms but there's a big difference between the way we operate and some of the larger firms operate in terms of process financial adviser kind of freedom the way we serve versus others.
And I think that what's happened are people from -- who have served at some of those firms want to go back to an environment they were used to before some of the consolidation began so that's been the main source of recruiting.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then in regards to the Morgan Keegan integration I appreciate all the update that you gave.
It sounds like both revenues and expenses are trending ahead of original expectations.
But I just want to dig in specifically on the expenses.
Is there any change to your thoughts on the ultimate size of the cost saves was they are fully phased in? I think we take the same approach as first after 20 days we're not declaring any victory so we have an early trend.
As we've told you when we did the acquisition we tried to budget conservatively and do better.
So I'm hoping that we do get some cost savings or grow into capacity as we hire and that's been our strategy.
That hasn't changed so I think that there could be further cost savings in terms of percentage of revenue if the market grows or more cost reductions if we're in a flat market we will size it so to fit but our goal right now is to keep all good people and we get a little revenue growth.
It's hard to find good people.
Our model has been keep service levels high and hopefully we grow into the headcount that we have on both sides.
Devin it's going to be hard to really know what the savings are from rightsizing the support until we actually go through the integration of the Private Client Group next year.
That's going to see a lot of support related to that operation.
It's just a little hard to tell right now how it's going to look on a combined basis versus how we're handling it today.
But our goal is to keep their -- they've got some very very good people.
We want to make sure they have a home to the extent that works out on both sides.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just last one for me a question for Steve on the bank.
Is it reasonable to expect there could be some more reserve releases going forward? And on the Allied Irish acquisition I believe you mentioned a NIM of 8% are you going to be hedging that portfolio from here? Is that a good number to think about going forward? Devin we already have that hedged.
That's a different line item.
So the expense associated with the hedging or the impact of the hedging won't be reflected in the NIM.
But it will be reflected in other expense items.
So you need to factor in approximately around an 8% net interest margin in that portfolio.
In terms of reserve releases our bias is not to do that it's obviously built loan by loan.
We've had a lot of success over the last 18 months or so in terms of problem asset resolution in reducing our criticized loans.
We remind you the last couple of years when we got the share national credit exam we've had last year was a relatively small in fact it was a couple of million dollars.
It was in the June quarter last year the prior few years that it had been in the September quarter we're actually trying to grow loans which should you know should have provision expense and actually increasing our allowance through that process.
But we were pleasantly surprised with the credit impact this last quarter and the credit improvement and the impact to our allowance to upgrades and pay downs.
Devin I want to be clear we didn't make any general reserve release.
We had releases because loans paid off or paid down in the higher reserves too that it netted out.
So this isn't a reserve release it was a loan by loan result.
But if you're asking where we have additional pay downs and things I'm sure we will.
But we also like Steve said hope to have net growth which would replace it.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one last one on the expenses the communications and information processing ticked up and I know that you did have some seasonal items there.
Could we expect that to come down to more normal levels or levels that have been in previous quarters? Or are we at a higher run rate because of some more permanent expense increases.
I think that there's some increased mailings et cetera in this quarter that might have taken it higher? I think just because of the time it occurred with statements and stuff there's increasing -- there's increased mailings.
So technology is increasing as the spend but there is obviously from a -- the mailings that come in a quarter this is where we do get a big jump up and hit.
So it's a little bit of both.
It's not all there but it is -- we are continuing to increase our spend in technologies.
We've talked about that for the last several calls I think Devin.
I mean I think that technology's kind of reached a little bit of a new plateau here for the foreseeable future as we have a number of big initiatives underway and some of what Paul has mentioned already.
So I can't back out the mailing expense for you right now.
But we can -- it's a number we could look at.
We don't think it's going to come down dramatically from these levels for a while.
Your next question is from Douglas Sipkin.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One -- and I'm pretty sure you guys are going to refrain from giving more color but I'm just sort of trying to look at Morgan Keegan revenues for March I guess it was in the regions release and maybe now that we have -- that was sort of the last quarter before the close how does that compare to what you guys are thinking.
I know you guys are modeling a pretty decent sized drop off in sort of the run rate.
I guess I remember it being sort of in that low $800 million range does that March quarter shed any light make you feel better make you feel worse just curious for your thoughts.
They had -- from what we've seen they had a good quarter.
So they had a very solid quarter which makes us -- we'd rather -- except outside of paying for the net income we actually like the fact that their business had a positive momentum also so exactly what the resulting revenue before the retention all settled out it's kind of harder to say but certainly they were doing better as they opened up than they were in December when be projected.
And we tried to be conservative on retention and conservative on the revenue to the extent that the run rate is higher and our retention's higher we should do better.
But we'll let you know this quarter.
So they do have positive momentum coming in.
It was good to see.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then with the Asset Management business I mean continues to do very well.
Strategically any update on what you guys are thinking about that business.
I know the strength historically has been small and mid-cap and I know you guys want more international and more large-cap.
Any color on efforts there? Our efforts continue.
It's been very clear.
We've been looking systematically at acquisitions and hired firms to help us with lift outs and niche acquisitions focused on the large-cap international spaces and are talking to folks but nothing to announce.
So -- but we'll in our normal Raymond James way be very methodical if we rind the fit we'll close on it.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then just last question just curious with your increased size now at FA headcount have you already started to see maybe a little bit more negotiating power with some product providers? Or is it too early in the days for that? Or just not big enough of an increase in FA count that that's going to change things that much when you negotiate with firms? Obviously we think it will.
We treat our -- we treat our --  we have partners in this business.
So we have a dialogue and then we've got great relationships with them.
Certainly it hasn't gone unnoticed that our sales forces has increased.
We also do some things that we think will put a lift to Morgan Keegan in terms of things we do with some of our partners in the business.
So we will see some we're sure.
How much and how significant we don't know yet.
But it will be a positive.
I don't think it would be a needle mover on it's own.
But there are a lot of little pieces that that we do think it will contribute to this being a good combination.
And your final question is from Hugh Miller.
LLC</strong> I just had a I guess a question for Steve at the bank.
I appreciate the updated guidance on the expected NIM going forward and I realize that the pay downs from some of the potential problem loans has a benefit there.
But I was wondering in general for some of the pay downs for loans that aren't substandard or your nonperforming are you guys benefiting at the margins for many prepayment penalties that may have been embedded in these loans? Yes Hugh what occurs is fees that we earn at closing actually get amortized over the life of the loan and if it was a 5-year loan and the loan pays off restructures pays down other than what the scheduled repayment terms were we take that as seasoned income.
Now the portfolio is of the size now where every quarter we got fees that we don't expect to -- there are payoffs and pay downs that are not part of the scheduled payment structure.
So we're recognizing fees every quarter and it can be a little lumpy.
This last quarter it was a positive impact of the Canadian portfolio even for that 1 month.
The legacy domestic portfolio was about equal to maybe even slightly lower than the December quarter in terms of pay downs.
So our NIM gets impacted by that fee recognition but each quarter we're going to have some of that.
We could run into a quarter were the NIM gets negatively impacted because we don't have any extraordinary -- or a reduced level of extraordinary pay downs or payoffs.
I don't believe there are prepayment penalties in any of those...
No none of the corporate loans have any prepayment penalties.
It's just fee recognition.
Acceleration of unamortized fees.
LLC</strong> Exactly.
And that's just -- what I was trying to assess was that that potential for pressure from there.
For some reason you don't start to see the continuation of those pay downs.
And then within the loan portfolio growth that you were guiding to kind of exclusive for some of these opportunities to purchase loans 6% to 7%.
I realize that the entrance into Canada is expected to be a conservative growth going forward.
But how do you think about the target between domestic and Canadian growth in that 6% to 7% forecast? Obviously it seems like the margin benefits for the Canadian exposure would be substantially more positive? Well yes the new business in Canada will have net interest margins and the credit profile is very similar to the U.S.
business.
So I wouldn't anticipate heavier weighting towards Canada.
I would anticipate it being -- right now there's about -- we have about $500 million in outstandings to Canadian-based companies.
I would anticipate that percentage growing equal to the domestic business.
LLC</strong> And I apologize because I hopped on the call late.
But I think you were starting -- or you talked a little bit about the reduction in March average daily commissions versus February and I was wondering if you could just quickly mention again what was it that caused that to pull back more than what may have been expected? I don't -- I think you misheard that part.
Commission revenues were up I think sequentially in all of our businesses really.
LLC</strong> No I was talking about the month of March on an average daily basis was kind of down for the run rate in February and I was wondering whether or not there was [indiscernible] or if it was kind of from an institutional side of the business or any reclassification or something like that? Hold on one second.
LLC</strong> And the last question I had was just with regards to -- obviously you've talked about retention kind of running in above your expectations for the Morgan Keegan deal.
But I was wondering if you guys have given any updated insight into your expectations for the total percentage of the advisers that you anticipate will probably stick with the company? I think we told people that we kind of have this 90% kind of retention rate.
From the original numbers we said 10% that we would lose and our redundancies and 10% of -- and loss just being unable to hold them.
And I would just say the redundancies have been less than we thought and the fallout has been less to date.
So obviously retaining the revenue is the #1 goal and that's why we've gone very deliberate on expenses to keep service levels high and that hasn't changed.
So we're ahead of where we thought we'd be.
But we've been joined as a family now for 20-some days.
So we're not going to declare a victory on the trend.
So we're sticking by the estimates.
We thought they were conservative when we made them but time will tell.
The other upside is their business is up.
So that's obviously helping too.
We acquired a business that had much better momentum than when we negotiated the purchase.
Hugh I'm just looking I'd say that total commissions were down slightly in March versus February.
LLC</strong> I think that there were a couple of more days in March relative to February as well.
Per day basis is even -- I don't have an explanation.
The only thing unusual that comes to mind other than we participate heavily on our own offerings.
I think it has to do with the number of days because the assets -- the fee-based assets are impacted by days of transaction they're just a monthly number..
LLC</strong> That's a good point.
That's true.
Okay.
[indiscernible] There's nothing that happened in March.
I mean if -- March and going into April has been an uptrend not a downtrend so...
At this time there are no further questions.
Well great.
I think that -- again after a very solid quarter which we are I'm proud of of our folks that worked very hard to keep the business going and to welcome the Morgan Keegan people.
The fit from a cultural standpoint is as good as we thought it was.
And you have glitches and you have people changing jobs.
This has been a challenge and will continue to be a challenge as people settle in.
But it's gone much better than we thought to date.
It's good to have an economic environment that gives us some tailwinds moving into the quarter.
And we'll continue to slug it out here.
So I appreciate your time on the call.
Jeff did you have something? We look forward to seeing most of you at our Analyst Day next week.
Our annual Analyst Day...
And if some of you can't get there we still have some slots open.
So please attend.
Great.
Well thank you all very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
My name is Jodi and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Raymond James Quarterly Analyst Call.
[Operator Instructions] To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters a variety of factors many of which beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K which is available on raymondjames.com and sec.gov.
In addition to those factors in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of this transaction the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth changes in the capital markets and diversion of management time or integration-related issues.
To the extent Raymond James discusses non-GAAP results the reconciliation to GAAP is available on raymondjames.com and the earnings release issued yesterday.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Paul Reilly Chief Executive Officer of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jodi.
Good morning everyone.
After the release a lot of people asked me how I felt and despite fighting a cold and economic political and regulatory uncertainty I feel pretty good.
The -- I think it's important because there's a lot of what I called noise in the quarter with so much going on within the firm and the integration as the first put the quarter in perspective.
This was a record quarter in revenue and in earnings and sure you could say well part of that was Morgan Keegan.
That certainly aided.
But if you took Morgan Keegan out in the related costs of the acquisition and integration it still would have been a record quarter in revenue and earnings.
So I think that if you look -- it was a very solid quarter in terms of operating much of the beat we recognized as you have was from a tax rate benefit driven by COLI which Jeff will talk a little bit later.
But it was a good operational quarter.
And in this environment especially with the integration going on we feel very good about it.
There is a lot of things happening on the cost side as you've noticed and we will talk about in some of the segments especially in Jeff's part.
We do have as we've told you increased technology spend.
We've been very focused in elevating the platform for our financial advisors and our individual clients which has gone very very well.
But on top of that we've had the integration with Morgan Keegan.
And while we're integrating the Morgan Keegan system we've made some upgrades to our back-office system because we would have had to do them twice.
And that has elevated technology spend.
And we've also used a lot of consultants which has elevated technology spend with the philosophy that once the integration is over the consultants can leave and the operating people will still be here.
So you see much of that going through the system which will be here for a while as we go through the integration.
There is some onetime charges.
We'll talk about them.
There's some allocation changes as we move people align departments.
We've moved some people from MK and RJ and we've kept people in MK in the broker dealer.
There are pieces that move around.
So it makes comparisons sometimes quarter-to-quarter or business to business a little difficult as we get through the integration.
One message that we kept on is that we wanted to err on the side of keeping our service high.
Anecdotally I was at operation managers' dinner last night and I just went from group to group asking how service was since we announced the Morgan Keegan integration.
And everyone said it's been very very high that they haven't noticed any declination [ph] in service.
And I think that's the result why we've continued with high retention rates both in legacy Raymond James and Morgan Keegan and that has been our strategy.
So we know the costs are high through this integration process.
It's been part of our strategy.
And given this environment I think we've had it -- we had good revenue for the quarter.
Maybe more importantly as we position the platform record assets under administration at $390 billion record assets under management at $43 billion should bode well moving forward.
We do have some market tailwinds coming into the quarter especially in our Private Client Group.
In our advance billings we went in with a 3.3% drag with the S&amp;P 500 down.
We moved in with a tailwind with 5.8% increase in the S&amp;P really helping us start our next quarter.
So all in all I'm really proud of the management team.
It's difficult running and focusing on a business while integrating a company at the same time and I give them very high marks for doing that.
So far so good.
We still have a long way to go to complete the integration and I'll speak a little bit more of that in a minute.
PCG group.
I'll talk to a few factors and Jeff will talk to some of the costs.
Revenue up despite going into that headwinds with the S&amp;P down moving into the quarter.
You can see growth really in our account servicing fees.
We're slowly moving Morgan Keegan into some of our cost structure.
But most of the benefits on the revenue side on the omnibus platform on marketing fees with our mutual funds and other things.
Although we're getting some almost most of that will happen after the integration of the PCG platforms in February.
Technology costs are probably the big costs of this sector and I'll let Jeff go through that.
And I describe kind of some of the issues that are hitting us in that and I leave it for that.
The other area I wanted to comment was on the financial advisor headcount reduction as you noticed on the schedules.
And that's really driven more than 100% on the net number by a reduction of low-end producing Morgan Keegan FAs who have exited the system.
For example there's a group of 30 that average 136 000 in trailing 12s.
I mean there are people that -- good people that just weren't meeting the standards.
We had 4 retirements and one death where we kept the book.
So if you look at who's left it's really been the lower-end producing MK financial advisors.
Our retention on those who were offered retention agreements is close to 96% so we're feeling very very good that the people that we targeted to keep are staying.
Our HOV which we call our home office visits those are recruits coming into the office are increasing continuing to increase both in our employee and our independent contractors divisions.
So we feel very good about the recruiting pipeline especially a very high-end producer.
So I think that the Morgan Keegan combination has resulted in a lot more interest than our overall platforms.
People recognize that maybe a little bit more of what we're accomplishing.
The other difficult segment to really read through for this quarter is the Capital Markets segment as we titled it "The Tale of Two Cities." The Equity Capital Markets business has been difficult since really the meltdown of the European markets last September.
This quarter our Investment Banking revenues were down.
Actually securities commissions were up some but if you look at the whole tracking of the institutional business it's in decline.
When you gain -- we've been gaining market share but certainly not enough to offset the overall decline in commissions over the desk as more and more not only is volume going down but the percentage going electronic and ETF is going up.
On top of that in a tough market if you look at Howe Barnes who we acquired right before this -- the Morgan Keegan.
In Morgan Keegan we've added substantially to our support to our banking and our research staff during that period of time.
So as the market has gone down we have grown.
So that has put a lot of pressure on our results in Equity Capital Markets and something we're just looking to rationalize and see where we think the markets will head and where we're positioned.
On the flip side the Fixed Income has done very good.
If you look overall it's interesting the commissions are slightly down doing some right-sizing really last quarter as we continued to -- last quarter we did our adjustments in our sales and trading group but our trading profits are solid.
The group is very strong.
Management has come together.
We love the platform.
And it's been very very consistent.
And so it's made up much of the decline we saw in Equity Capital Markets.
Our Public Finance group was off on the quarter due to a very very slow July as we told you in the operating statistics.
But since July we've had a series of very strong months and very good backlog in our Public Finance fields.
And we're very very comfortable where that business is also.
So we have the equity side of the business struggling and the Fixed Income Public Finance side of the business doing very very well.
On the Asset Management side we continue to have steady growth good net inflows.
As you've read in our releases we've had an addition of several teams -- a strong seasoned the small and mid-cap team has joined Eagle.
And also we announced the purchase agreement of a large minority interest in ClariVest the $3 billion asset manager which will help us in our strategies in the large cap space.
We've said we've been open to looking out for the large cap manager in international space.
We'll continue to look a little less aggressively.
If we find someone we will continue to add opportunities in Eagle but we are making progress on our acquisition strategies as we have mentioned before.
There's a lot of information on the bank.
We just had a great quarter on the bank driven -- again we have great loan growth for the year and a good credit quality.
And we benefited from a lower provision this quarter.
But great quarter and great year for the bank and you've got a lot of operating statistics in there so I won't really go into too much detail but very very comfortable where the bank is headed.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Jeff.
I know you're going to have a lot of questions.
So Jeff why don't you go ahead and address some of the items? Okay.
I think most of the comments I've read from all of you this morning that have written about us already have been pretty much right on with how we view the quarter.
It was really kind of a confluence of goods and bads and highs and lows for the quarter and in some ways for the year as well.
I mean on the positive side of the ledger we certainly would have the bank as Paul just mentioned which had -- has had consecutive record quarters and by far a record year.
Fixed Income for the last 6 months since the integration is performing about as well as one could expect given the massive task of integrating 2 fairly sizable businesses and trying to right-size that.
There's probably still a little bit more of that to go.
But certainly for the fourth quarter they performed every bit in line with our expectations.
Proprietary Capital for the last 6 months has certainly been a pleasant surprise as we've -- in both quarters to our interest had a $5 million type profit recognized in that segment.
And certainly this most recent quarter the tax rate benefited which I'll talk about in a second.
So overall very positive elements.
But there were also some negative elements.
Equity Capital Markets continues to be a difficult business.
As Paul mentioned I'll talk about our comp ratio which we view as a higher than -- it should be and higher than it will be in the future.
And certainly IT costs as we've made some of these investments which again I'll talk about.
So with that let me talk in some detail about a couple of things in no particular order.
With respect to the tax rate we've used the reasoning with the COLI in the past.
Typically we've had to use it when we've had down markets and it's possible [ph]  To have an exceptionally high tax rate.
Well it's nice to know it does work in our favor as well.
We have around $150 million block of corporate and life insurance that -- which gains and losses do not impact taxes.
So this case we have to kind of predict every quarter where we think COLI is going to go.
And at the end of June when the market was coming off a 3.3% decline that quarter we kind of projected COLI would be flat to slightly down from that level for the year and pegged our rate accordingly.
And of course when you do that it just does the opposite then it rocketed up in the fourth quarter.
So we had a lot of tax-free gains on the COLI which is -- there's some other items going back and forth but that was by far the main driver.
And obviously it helped overall for the year to some extent as well.
The comp ratio has a lot of moving parts in it.
Now we did have -- we recognized this year and mostly in the fourth quarter over $10 million of what I'd call non-recurring items things like a catch-up expense on some benefit plan accruals some -- and FLSA internal review to catch up on that to avoid any kind of -- it's the Fair Labor Standards Act in terms of catching people up on past over time et cetera.
So those type of things should not be recurring going forward.
And most of that hit the PCG segment which caused that segment to show a poor margin than we would have expected.
The level of comp in Equity Capital Markets when they're having poor revenue times is obviously going to be higher it has a big overhead base in that area.
So to the extent that revenues recover that should normalize that comp level over time.
IT is still very heavy.
Remember we're still running 2 systems and a lot of that's in people count.
Some of it's in systems -- the systems line but a lot of it is in people headcount where Morgan Keegan still run their Phase 3 system and all the support related to that.
So we still have a lot of what I'll call future synergy in the IT area some in the headcount.
Fixed Income and Private Client Group are probably still running heavy.
And Fixed Income as Paul mentioned did some right-sizing at the very end of September on some of the sales and trading areas and some of the support areas.
And we started to do a little bit more of that in some of the other PCG support areas as well.
But most of that won't be recognized until post the integration in February.
So when I look at all this together and look at our businesses going forward I think mid-60s is still our target and still achievable as a comp ratio.
Again that includes the high comp level associated with independent contractors.
But most of the remaining synergy savings are going to be -- will be headcount reductions and IT ops other support areas post integration so that will help drive down the comp at that time.
I'll talk on net interest for a second.
It's interesting it increased every quarter this fiscal year despite the fact that we incurred a lot more corporate debt in connection with the Morgan Keegan acquisition.
And that's mainly on the heels of the bank's growth which as we mentioned already had a -- by far a record year.
They didn't -- we still have the same dynamic.
I don't need to go into -- with respect to when interest rates rise so we're still looking forward to those days.
Proprietary Capital I mentioned the difference this quarter versus last quarter is that last quarter the writeup was in an investment where we had a fairly minor interest.
So the -- it's a consolidated entity however so we had a very large revenue and a large non-controlling interest charge to reflect that part that we did not own.
This quarter the writeup was in one that we're accounting for on I'll call it the equity method or investment method where it's all to our interest.
So it's same amount of writeup basically net to our interest but one larger revenue and then minority interest in this one the revenue and straight to the bottom line.
No minority interest.
IT costs.
We've talked about -- there's a number of things going on in that area.
The headcount is certainly one [ph]  From running 2 systems but they're also -- some of the initiatives that we've had under way for the year are regulatory in nature.
Cost basis is probably the biggest regulatory project that we've got going on as do -- does everyone in the industry.
We also have other regulatory reporting efforts under way.
There's unfortunately no capitalization involved or anything else with those type of projects.
It's just regulatory necessity.
We also have spent quite a bit this year on improvement of the advisor desktop a system we call Advisor Access and other enhancements to stay competitive maybe doing a little bit of catch-up in that regard but to remain competitive with the competition out there so as not to impact recruiting and our ability to service FAs and clients.
ROEs.
We don't put that in the press release we make going forward.
For the quarter our GAAP ROE was 10.4% versus last quarter's 9.8% and last year's 10.7%.
So all hovering around the 10% level.
On a non-GAAP basis which this year excludes the acquisition and integration costs and in the prior year would exclude the auction rate securities charges was -- for this quarter was 12.6% versus 11.5% last quarter and only 10.2% last year when we -- was a very rough quarter.
If you remember the U.S.
downgrade the market was in a tailspin last year September quarter.
So from that perspective it was a little easier comparison.
And more importantly for the overall fiscal year our ROE on a GAAP basis was 9.7% versus 11.3% last year.
Again that's on a GAAP basis.
We had higher integration charges than we did auction rate securities charges.
But a better comparison is the non-GAAP number which was 11.2% this year versus 12.2% in the prior year.
Paul mentioned we would have had a record year of even ex-Morgan Keegan.
The real -- the whole reason for the decline in ROEs we had more E [ph] between earnings.
And the stock offering we did to consummate the acquisition added $360 million to equity.
So we're running about the -- still in that 11% to 12% ROE range on an operating basis.
I have a couple other things that you all have asked in the past.
I thought I would just get that out on the table.
People ask about the commission breakdown in our line item.
I've tried to look at -- I've looked at the last 6 months which is the period we've had Morgan Keegan and try to give a rough approximation of how the commission line -- commission and fee line breaks down.
It's roughly 80% Private Client Group 13% Fixed Income and 7% Equity is about what it is over that period.
That's going to bounce around from period to period but that's effectively the breakdown as it stands now.
The other one that you've asked about is the Investment Banking line.
Again looking at the last 6 months when we've had Morgan Keegan and their significant Public Finance effort it's been about 40% equity underwriting 25% M&amp;A 25% public finance and 10% tax credit funds are the 4 components of that line.
Again 40% equity underwriting 25% M&amp;A 25% public finance and 10% tax credit funds.
So those are your constructing models going forward.
We get asked a lot about client asset mix.
We have -- and again an approximation this bounces around.
But where we stand today on our client assets we don't have as good information into the Morgan Keegan system as we do the RJ.
But we'd suspect they're fairly similar.
Our client assets are 300-plus billion is approximately 50% equity and this looking through mutual funds to what they're actually holding.
It's about 50% equity it's about 35% Fixed Income and about 15% cash alternative investments real estate everything else.
Cash levels are probably in the 11% to 12% range right now so not much of the other.
At the same time sometimes I'm asked and I try to tell what's in the asset managed segments in terms of how sensitive are those to the equity markets.
In terms of the managed portion of our assets the $43 billion it's about 70% equity and 30% Fixed Income which is probably as high a Fixed Income component as it's ever been and are -- because we've had our roots as an equity shop and still are mostly known as that.
In the non-managed portfolio the rest of the fee-based assets that you see that we talked about it's about -- it's similar it's about -- as a client breakdown it's about 50% equity 30% Fixed Income and 15% cash and 5% these others.
So not much different than the overall client breakdown but that gives you some idea of our sensitivity to the equity markets.
Obviously we had a good market in the September quarter.
So our billing base will be substantially higher -- was substantially higher on 10/1 than it was on 7/1  going forward.
Back to the current year I tried to do an analysis extracting all the revenues and expenses associated with Morgan Keegan out of our numbers to see what our true increase would have been for the year and it's -- I would say revenues ex all the Morgan Keegan were up about 2.5% for the year.
Legacy Raymond James expenses were up a little less than that about 2.3% to 2.4% which would have meant the non-GAAP pre-tax was up about 12% for the year which is a pretty good good result given we had some of the higher IT spend not much help from Equity Capital Markets and some of the other factors I mentioned.
So a lot of facts and figures but that's sort of where we ended up for the quarter and the year.
One last comment and I'll open it for questions is that in terms of the integration we continue to be on schedule.
We've stayed ahead on retention.
So our targets I'm very confident we're going to be able to get our operating synergies down on the cost side that's going to be after conversion.
So we're slating for our final conversion in February.
There's probably 90 days to get operationally stable and through it all.
So we're going to be -- we'll be able to lower some of our costs in between.
But I think the great bulk of that is going to happen during that post-integration time frame.
But I'm confident that we're on track.
I'm confident they're there.
And if we can keep the people it would be a great story.
And so far so good.
So with that Jodi why don't we open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] You're first question comes from the line of Chris Harris from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I know there's a lot of noise going on this quarter a lot of moving parts you guys addressed I guess a lot them in the prepared commentary there.
Just trying to get a sense on the cost side of things.
Paul you mentioned the majority of the savings to come I guess after you integrate.
And I'm just kind of curious right now you guys are running about $180 million or so of non-comp expense backing out provision and adjustments.
Just kind of curious as to where you think that number can go as you guys start to integrate the platform.
Chris it's Jeff.
I'll remind you that a lot of the future synergy is going to be in the comp line.
And non-comp might -- it will probably trend a little lower than that as we get rid of some of the system and platform duplication that we've got some of the contracts that are in place that we won't have any more et cetera.
But...
Think of most people [ph].
Yes.
And most of the synergy to date and remaining is going to be in the comp line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you guys still budgeting for that $50 million to $80 million target? I mean I guess you've already realized some of that but...
I'd say we've probably realized maybe 1/4 of it and a lot of it was in Equity Capital Markets where we kept the revenue-producing units and -- et cetera.
But even the people we've kept there we haven't had the best of markets to realize the production.
So that hasn't really resulted in a synergy.
Even though we had quite a bit of headcount reduction in the Equity Capital Markets area we haven't had the revenues that historically have been there.
Yes.
Our estimates haven't changed Chris.
We're pretty confident they're there and it's just -- we're going to have to get through integration to realize them all.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right fair enough.
And a few questions then on the bank.
Nice step-down in provision expense in the quarter.
You guys are at 181 basis points now your allowance ratio.
Just wondering where you guys are comfortable taking that ratio assuming credit continues to do well here.
Chris it's Steve Raney.
Yes you saw that it trended down just slightly.
We're actually trying to grow loans and adding to provision accordingly.
That said we've had a pretty benign last 18 months or so in terms of credit.
In terms of that ratio it could come down slightly but it's not going to come down materially.
So we're really watching that closely.
We're very comfortable of having quite a bit of coverage in terms of our total allowance to our non-performers.
You see that's about 138% right now.
We like to have that level of cushion in our credit portfolio.
But it could come down a little bit but not materially.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay Steven.
And then while I have you maybe a quick one on the NIM and then I'll let others get in here.
Pretty big step-down this quarter.
I mean I guess that's similar with pretty much every other bank.
What are you guys seeing NIM going over the course of the next year or so? Yes.
Chris just to clarify it was down 14 basis points for the quarter.
About half of that was attributable to -- we had about $150 million more in cash balances that obviously impact the NIM but don't negatively impact our net interest and bottom line.
So about half of that 14-basis-point reduction was related to additional cash balances we had.
And the rest was just across the whole loan portfolio.
We -- as you know we introduced this securities-based loan product earlier in the year back in February.
That product has about a 300-basis-point net interest margin.
We want to grow that business.
It's a very low-risk business but it is a lower net interest margin business.
And we have had some very small reductions in NIM in our corporate and our residential portfolio.
That being said moving forward I would say maybe compared to the 355 basis points in NIM it's something in the 340 to 350 range.
So not a material drop for the next 12 months but maybe -- it will come down maybe slightly.
Your next question comes from the line of Hugh Miller with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Certainly appreciate the insights you guys have given us on kind of the exposure to the equity markets.
As you talked about kind of a 50% exposure with the retail client assets to equities can you just talk about how that compares historically? Have you taken a look there to see what -- has that really changed much in the last several years? Well I can only give you an anecdotal.
I mean we didn't have the same ability to look through mutual funds and sort them out as we do today on an automated basis.
I would say it's probably down I would guess probably 10 percentage points from historic levels versus the client allocations in the past.
I think the world has gotten a little bit more conservative here in their investing strategies but that's just anecdotal.
I was a little surprised.
I thought it'd be a little higher than 50 even now but that's how it shook out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I mean how much of a factor do you guys feel or are you getting any feedback from clients about the November elections the fiscal cliff? Is that really playing a substantial factor in their aversion to equities? Or what do you guys think has to happen in order for there to be potential rebalance of allocations? Hugh I think it's just overall confidence.
And all those add into it whether it's Europe fiscal cliff the elections governmental policy direction regulation.
I mean there's just not a high degree of confidence that we're heading somewhere and people are risk-averse.
There's one more uncertainty that will be removed in a few weeks.
Yes.
But a few to be added even when that one is removed until we see what happens so...
It may add a few more.
It's going to take a while.
So we may get some euphoria after an election with one result or another.
But I think people are going to settle down and say "What does that mean until Congress convenes?" So...
We aren't having -- we aren't advocating that people make election [indiscernible] at this point.
LLC</strong> And I know that the majority of your fee-based accounts are booked in the prior quarter.
But we did see a kind of a pickup in September in average daily commissions that were -- it's a little higher than what I would have expected.
Anything in particular? I assume given the higher exposure within the PCG side but was there any -- to those types of commissions.
But anything in particular that was kind of driving that rise in September? There's 2 general factors for us.
One is it's after summer.
So September is usually better than the summer months.
And secondly it's our year-end.
And I think that people work hard to close out their books and positions and -- so we'll get a lot of -- they qualify for clubs and levels and -- so they work really hard in the month to close out the year well and they probably work harder.
So I think that if you look overall it was a -- it wasn't record month on a daily basis but it was much better than the previous 2 months.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And last question I had was just with regards to some of the commentary you guys have made about consideration of cost structure within kind of the cash equities business just given what you guys referred to as both cyclical and structural changes in there.
Can you just delve in a little bit further about -- to what extent you would consider making an adjustment there and any types of things that you guys have talked about and what you would consider changing? No.
We're still early going.
But I mean if you just look at the market that the -- if you look at the over-the-desk commissions were down.
And that's how we get paid.
We're a research-based firm.
So we have high costs and it's just -- you got to rationalize either what people get paid how much cost you structure how you -- just how you look at that whole thing.
So we're examining it because we believe that part of it is cyclical but part of it's structural.
And we're just taking a look at it now so...
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jeff sorry if I missed it already but can you walk me through the comp dynamic again this quarter? So I guess your point on the comp rate being higher because of kind of slower Equity Capital Market activity.
But I guess when I look at last quarter $736 000 and just in dollar terms went to $745 000 this quarter.
Commissions were kind of flat.
Everything else out of Investment Banking were kind of flattish as well.
So can you just explain I guess what drove the sequential increase in comp dollar terms? Yes.
A couple of things.
We had some onetime charges as I mentioned about $10 million of them.
Most of which hit in this fourth quarter which probably makes up your difference right there.
But there are other things as well.
As we continue to work on these IT projects some of the hiring we do comes in the form of contractors which actually gets into the comp line.
The consultants don't but contractors do.
So we've actually added headcount in IT to keep some of these projects alive that I mentioned some of the regulatory some of the advisor desktop et cetera.
Not much that's a small quarter-to-quarter but still an item.
So it was predominantly right-sizing of all the incentive comp pools -- it happens at year-end.
That's an exercise around the firm as well as these onetime charges probably between quarter-to-quarter probably makes the difference.
Research Division</strong> Got you that's helpful.
And then I guess looking at the entire expense line for the quarter 930 [ph].
You're saying you guys are already running about 20% 25% of your targeted cost saves kind of in the numbers.
So it's sort of -- kind of in the run rate.
Can you give us I guess an update? What's -- how much is left? But also most importantly when you think about extra cost that the business is incurring right now aside from Morgan Keegan so whether it's travel which is I guess something you guys talked about last quarter some of these contractors IT-related stuff.
It just feels like there's more running through the total expense line right now than what's kind of implied in your ultimate savings.
Is there a way to size that? Yes.
Let us address that.
Let me go back to your first -- your other question real quick.
One more -- one other thing that impacted quarter-to-quarter on the comp the Morgan Keegan retention packages which were delivered in April and May the amortization of those started July 1.
That's about $5 million a quarter.
And those aren't onetime.
Yes.
Those unfortunately will be recurring or fortunately but those will be recurring.
But that was just looking quarter-to-quarter.
That was the additional $5 million increase not a onetime charge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just I guess on the -- on any other costs that are flowing through that will eventually go away? It's hard for us to say.
We've told you for several quarters that we're going to have higher technology spend here for some time.
And we certainly lived up to that.
Some of these costs [indiscernible] systems et cetera aside from Morgan Keegan.
We'll finish some of the projects we have in process.
I don't know if that means the cost will go away because some of the capitalized projects you start -- then realize the amortization of those through your P&amp;L.
And we'll have other projects that need addressing.
So I don't know that we can say that there's a lot of fat in the base level of expenses outside of the comp expense at this point in time.
I don't know Paul maybe...
No.
I think the ongoing IT is a little heavy.
But I mean -- after the cost savings.
But it's -- we do have an elevated IT investment that we'll be seeing really for a few years.
And we've talked about that way before the Morgan Keegan acquisition that that's up.
So that run rate is up.
It's just accentuated this quarter by a number of the things Jeff has talked about some adjustments some allocations and the consultant cost.
So...
I don't see that occupancy or business development or some of the other expenses really.
I think they're in the approximately the right rate for where we are inclusive of Morgan Keegan and obviously have more people going on trips and things like that.
That will slow down.
Yes.
But I don't see a lot of like I said trimming to do in the non-comp expense area beyond some of the IT.
Yes.
There's a lot of costs that are honestly hard to quantify that you go through in these integrations for example we've had almost 60 Morgan Keegan office people here for 5 weeks being trained on all of our systems.
We've had all their operations people being trained for 3 days this week and then joining our operations as managers running [ph] the new system.
So you do get some elevated costs through this integration process that will go away but the...
I think there might be a little help in occupancy.
We right-sized 5 or 6 Equity Capital Market offices around the country already.
Now we've taken some of those charges through the non-recurring as we have either abandoned or subleased some space or whatever.
But we won't have that occupancy expense for some of those going forward.
I don't know how big a lift that is but that may be fairly minor.
And I don't think there's much of that if any in the PCG side post integration to come.
So we do have a new data center going in in Colorado that will increase occupancy a little bit.
But I think by and large the expenses are at about the right level outside of comp for the current level of operations.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I know it's difficult.
So I guess -- throw out the number there.
So I appreciate all the additional color.
One more from me on the bank.
Clearly you've a good growth there.
Have you guys talked at all about I guess how you're thinking about growth in the bank heading into next year? Should we think about the loan portfolio growing roughly at the same rate? Can you accelerate some of that? Have you seen incremental opportunities in certain parts of the market? Or is that -- should be I guess pretty similar to what it's been this year? It's Steve Raney.
A couple of things.
Since this last fiscal year reminding you that back earlier that year we closed on the Canadian portfolio.
We also closed in July on a $185-million purchase of the legacy Region's securities-based loans.
We had a couple of non-recurring events that helped catapult our growth during fiscal '12.
That said we are being opportunistic in trying to grow the loan portfolio organically this year kind of across the whole spectrum our corporate lending our mortgage banking business and securities-based lending.
I would -- I think that we're -- to the extent that the market is available we're not going off into any new businesses or any new ventures at all so we're going to stick to our core businesses.
But we'd love to be able to grow the bank high single digits low double digits call it 8% to 12% over the next fiscal year.
So that's what we're targeting right now.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Devin Ryan from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just want to get your perspective on acquisition opportunities in the Private Client space just as regulatory costs rise and in smaller firms I think continue to get squeezed.
They just don't have the same economies of scale that you guys do.
So essentially maybe outlook and even appetite given an outlook.
Well right now we're fairly busy digesting our latest venture here.
I think that there'll be opportunities for small firms.
We -- the -- as the regulatory burden comes up it's going to be hard for people to be small broker dealers.
They can go into the RIA space.
There's lots of opportunities to change business for advisors.
But there'll be -- we are interested in organic growth or in this acquisition I think Morgan Keegan was a rare opportunity.
There's a couple of mid-sized firms.
We'd love their business.
If they became available either in the independent space or the employee space we'd love to have them as part of the family.
But there's smaller kind of -- maybe smaller kind of acquisitions.
But right now they're not.
And -- but there aren't -- if you go through the list there aren't a whole bunch of them.
And there are a lot of firms that are also in business just have different products in space.
We're not big in variable annuities.
We're not big in closed-end funds and things that firms -- some firms do.
And we don't do them.
So if you look at the people that do business the way we do there's a handful we'd like.
But there's not a ton of them.
And if they became available we'd love them to join us.
But I think that a lot of them may stay private or stay their own way unless the regulatory pressure or succession dictates [indiscernible].
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then from a modeling perspective how should we think about the ClariVest results? And then are you planning on consolidating that business? Or I guess how should we think about modeling it? That will be consolidated.
So there's some additional non-controlling interests to come there.
We're acquiring 45% of it as the release said and then manage about $3 billion mainly in the large cap space.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I apologize if I missed this.
But did you give the specifics on what drove the $10 million in onetime comp charges? And then just additionally on comp again just to beat the dead horse I'm just trying to figure out the numbers here.
And based on the commentary if you're going to assume that the $60 million to $80 million of expense saved are the majority still yet to come? Then I'm estimating that the comp expenses may be elevated by another $10 million to even up at $15 million higher just related to that Morgan Keegan -- the elevated Morgan Keegan expenses.
So I just want to make sure that I'm kind of thinking about things maybe just in the right ballpark.
And then secondly just give us some detail on the onetime $10 million this quarter.
It wasn't all this quarter.
It was over the last 2 quarters.
But most of it was this quarter.
We had a -- we did an internal Fair Labor Standards Act analysis around our entire firm.
So we weren't subject to any penalties et cetera in the -- by the DOL or anyone else when they look at that at a later date which caused us back  overtime pay off about -- over $2 million around the entire firm most of it in the IT ops areas where most of the clerical-level employees are and some in the branches.
So -- but most of it was in the PCG area.
Another one was the $5 million catch-up charge for some of our deferred plans where people had reached retirement age and aren't subject to forfeiture anymore.
And that was in the fourth quarter.
Those were the 2 biggest things and there were some little true-ups around the firm.
To your second point I think your -- I would expect that your number hopefully is light that we -- like I said I think we're probably 1/4 of the way at least in the September numbers.
We severed 30 people at the very end of September so that hasn't been reflected in this yet in terms of any comp savings.
But probably 20% of the what I'll call the synergy expenses have already been incurred through the integration of ECM and the beginning of integration in Fixed Income.
And like we said when the rest of it happens it's going to be primarily in comp.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And my numbers were on a -- I was talking on a quarterly basis not annualized as well.
Yes.
So I mean I would hope that -- yes I hope comp is inflated by more than your $10 million to $15 million post integration.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn it back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you Jodi.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
Again I think it was a very good quarter given everything was going on in a tough market.
And it reflects all the work we're doing and a lot of work left.
So I appreciate your time this morning and we'll talk to you again soon.
Thank you.
That concludes today's Raymond James quarterly analyst call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Raymond James Quarterly Analyst Call.
[Operator Instructions] To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters a variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2011 annual report on Form 10-K which is available on the raymondjames.com or sec.gov.
In addition to those factors in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance: difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; changes in the capital markets; and diversion of management time on integration-related issues.
To the extent Raymond James discusses non-GAAP results the reconciliation to GAAP is available on raymondjames.com and the earnings release issued yesterday.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to your speaker for this morning Mr.
Paul Reilly Chief Executive Officer of Raymond James.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Felicia and good morning.
As I looked at kind of some of the price targets this morning we're reticent to ever give guidance.
But we are making a prediction: Our prediction is 70 plus.
And that's not the stock price but that's the temperature here in St.
Petersburg today for those of you in New York.
So if anybody wanted -- wants a challenging career in great temperature we're here in St.
Petersburg give us a call.
I'd like to start the release in kind of taking a high-level view and I think our first big accomplishment is 100 consecutive quarters of profitability which is a big milestone.
And I think it's really a testament to the management philosophy that Bob and Tom James have built here.
It has been since Black Monday that we -- that quarter where we had our loss and that loss was due to that we kept the trading desk over that -- open that day and recorded  a little over an $800 000 loss some 25 years ago.
So I think that the story of Raymond James continues to be a strong long-term ROE with a buffer to the downside because of our management philosophy which should translate the value to our shareholders and our associates.
This quarter I believe was a good solid quarter given the marketplace.
We recorded record net revenue of $1.1 billion up 4% from last quarter and 42% from last year.
We also turned in a record net income of $85.9 million up 3% over last quarter and 28% over last year.
GAAP EPS was $0.61 up 2% from $0.60 last quarter and 15% from last year.
And our non-GAAP excluding the integration cost of $0.69 flat with last quarter and up 30% from last year.
And I go to those highlights from one thing that our story has been very consistent since pre-acquisition that we're going to focus on revenue growth and retention during the Morgan Keegan combination and I think we're accomplishing that.
We -- our retention levels stay high we can see it in our revenue numbers and I think in the faces of our financial advisors as we go through this integration.
But that is also consistent with elevated compensation expenses and often technology expenses through the integration.
We do not see those expenses diminishing over the next couple of quarters as we go through this integration and I'll give a little bit more color as I talk about that through some of the business segments.
Our assets continue to grow.
Although the S&amp;P was down 1% our assets under administration were up 8.6% for the quarter and 33% over last year.
Now of the $3.7 billion increase in our assets under administration 31 -- $3.1 billion was from our ClariVest acquisition.
A little bit of [ph] accounting we acquired a 45% interest in ClariVest and because of the control features in that it is a consolidation.
So -- and 3 -- the full $3.1 billion is in our $3.7 billion number.
Assets under administration grew to a record 39 -- $392 billion up less than 1% this year but up 45% over last year.
As we get into the business units the Private Client Group turned in good revenue growth at 3% sequentially up 35% over last year.
Pretax income over 5%.
The top line story is: Retention remains high in the Morgan Keegan advisors.
Over 95% of the Morgan Keegan production offered retention is still with us so we have good retention.
Again very happy with the advisors staying.
If you look through the attrition and the decrease in Financial Advisors the majority of it was caused by lower-end producing Morgan Keegan advisors.
In fact many of them were under $100 000 of production.
We had 3 in that group that we considered regretted [ph] losses and they were in production of $400 000-ish plus.
One was by death unfortunate which we usually retain the books and 2 did go to competitors.
But almost all of the other attrition was really by the lower-end producers.
The recruiting pipeline remains very robust.
The December quarter is typically a slower quarter for bringing people over people don't like to change through the year end both because of holidays because of retention agreements here and payouts.
But the pipeline is very good and recruiting continues to stay strong.
Our productivity per financial advisor has hit highs in Raymond James and Associates their employee side and Raymond James Financial our independent advisors.
And the Morgan Keegan advisor productivity is about 15% lower than our RJA advisor.
Our -- we will be converting the Morgan Keegan advisors over to our platform starting mid-February into our technology platform and that gap between the Morgan Keegan advisors and Raymond James advisors we feel we can make up over time.
That will not be an instant that will be a process over a year or 2 where we think we can -- our systems and products and services will help bring them up to the Raymond James Associates' productivity levels.
I said that the conversion of our systems will begin in mid-February.
We will bring all of our advisors over.
The expenses will remain elevated through second quarter and most of the third quarter.
We are committed to getting the efficiencies out but I think we're really looking that into our fourth quarter event after not just the conversion into our technology systems but also to make sure there's a smooth operating transformation of the advisors onto our platforms.
Our technology expense has remained elevated for 2 reasons: one high conversion expenses which we anticipated; but also we've continued to upgrade our systems really to very -- almost regular reviews by our advisors of our new technology.
And also validated by our recruits who see our technology and are very surprised that the platform we're offering to our advisors.
And we continue to commit -- we are committed to continue to upgrade our financial advisor-facing and client-facing systems.
Capital markets turned in a good growth quarter.
And it really is the tale of really kind of 2 businesses as we said last quarter but flipped.
We had a record quarter and our Equity Capital Markets division really up to give you magnitude of almost 30% sequentially driven by record M&amp;A volume.
Now the M&amp;A volume probably was somewhat accelerated by year-end deals -- I don't think were generated because of year end but accelerated by year end under the uncertainty in tax law.
So being a lumpy business you get some acceleration.
Our pipeline is good but we certainly had an acceleration into December.
In fact our M&amp;A volume was almost 60% of our total M&amp;A volume last year.
So a very very strong quarter.
We also had strong underwriting.
And just to give you an example 1 week in December we had to price 11 offerings and we were left with 5 of them.
So it was a very robust quarter in December almost as we closed out the year very very strong.
Conversely in the fixed income business which was down 15% sequentially both commissions were lighter but trading profits were off.
And that's mainly due to sudden rate movements in December which caused us lowering our trading profits because of our muni book both by offerings we were in in our inventory at that time.
The business is in good shape.
We expect fixed income to return to a more kind of its traditional operating levels.
We'd the Capital Markets business to continue as it was last quarter but that was a very strong quarter and we expect that likely to be softer than it was last quarter.
Asset Management revenue up 7% pretax up 18% 16% over last year.
Again good solid steady results in Asset Management as we've had for a number of years.
And again assets' grown totally in that segment by the ClariVest acquisition.
Not sure what to say about the bank just another very strong quarter highlighted by an increase of 5.9% in net loans $468 million.
And I'm sure you'll want some color and Steve both on our originations and some of the volume in the secondary markets.
You saw a lower provision because credit quality improves as loans pay off that have reserves you release those reserves.
And so the net number is lower than you've seen but it's a combination of just strengthening credit quality.
And those loans that reserve when they pay off you have to release the reserves.
So the bank has continued to perform well and we're happy with its positioning and it's credit quality.
The integration will continue through the third quarter where we think we can get it behind us essentially a little bit more in the year which I think is a great testament to the management here.
We are committed to the cost efficiencies that we've given you before.
We're about halfway with halfway to go.
And we think most of those we'll attack later in the fiscal year but we're committed to reaching those numbers once we have an integration.
I'm very comfortable that we have a stable operating platform after combining the whole Morgan Keegan franchise onto our system.
The integration has gone so well that we made a commitment to Morgan Keegan that we would keep some dual branding in businesses.
For 2 years they have asked us to drop the Morgan Keegan name in February after the integration and to operate under Raymond James.
And I think it's -- that their request which I think tells you the cultural integration and the satisfaction of the advisors and I applaud both sides for really reaching out and working together.
And as you look at the results even in Capital Markets a lot of those M&amp;A deals were generated by what we formally call Morgan Keegan bankers who are on our system as in early-on when fixed-income combined with a lot of the [indiscernible] of it they were -- their public finance group was a much stronger group a lot of the big deals were generated by former Raymond James bankers.
So we've gotten good integration on both sides good teamwork.
Happy with the integration so far and we should complete it over the next couple of quarters.
So with that I'll turn it over to Jeff with little -- for a little more color.
Okay.
A few comments to add to what Paul said.
First I'd like to make sure everybody is aware that we did beef up the press release this time.
We've added some additional balance sheet data including tangible book value per share.
We've added ROE for each period both GAAP and non-GAAP.
And we've added a breakdown of commission and fee revenues and similarly a breakdown of investment banking revenues.
This particular time we put in a trailing 5 quarters.
So those of you who model our earnings can update your models accordingly.
Going forward we'll probably put in the comparative periods similar to the way we present the P&amp;L in the quarterly press release.
Secondly let me talk about the comp ratio which we analyze as a percentage of net revenues.
It was 68.73 this quarter versus almost 70 last quarter so we actually had 123 basis point improvement.
I'd say that was a couple of factors small pieces that was results of some of the rightsizing we did toward the end of last fiscal year starting to manifest itself.
But also there was a surge in revenues as we've talked about particularly in Equity Capital Markets -- although that certainly has variable comp associated with it as well as a modest amount of bonus reversals which we have every year in that first quarter nothing like Goldman Sachs.
So -- and that we improved 122 basis points.
We think there will be more to come post-conversion as long as revenues hold up at these levels.
This is the area that the cost efficiencies will primarily be recognized and so we're hopeful that that trends lower as we go through the fiscal year.
I'm very disappointed to tell you that I don't have anything to talk about with respect to the tax rate.
It was normal at 38.3%.
You get -- that's sort of what happens in a flat market when you're COLI values don't bounce around much.
Similarly recurring revenues we talk about that every time we present at conferences et cetera and it's been holding pretty steady here at about 55% of revenues up for us.
One thing that we tried to estimate this time we typically start out -- have in the past started out our MD&amp;A saying that our results are very highly directly correlated to the direction of the domestic equities market.
So we decided to put that to the test a little bit and just see how much of our revenues really are equity market-sensitive.
We know it's a lot lower than it used to be as the bank has grown and fixed income certainly is much more significant operation than it was.
So when we do the math we actually think that probably a little less than half of our revenues currently are equity market-sensitive.
And another factor is Asset Managements -- assets under management have gravitated more towards fixed-income and our retail clients have gravitated more to fixed income as in asset allocation.
So with all those factors at play we're not as sensitive to the U.S.
equity markets as we have been in the past.
So just as a quick recap skimming around the segments.
In the PCG our FA account was down 41 for the quarter.
However average gross and average assets per FA hit record levels.
Client assets as Paul reported hit a record level about $370 billion of the $392 billion is Private Client Group related.
However the segment margin for PCG is still at 7.4%.
And again this is again an area that we should see some of the cost efficiencies toward the end of the year.
Remember we consolidate into that segment our IT and ops areas which predominantly serve the Private Client Group and that's where we expect some of the efficiencies to be realized later in the year.
In Capital Markets obviously we had -- the record investment banking core that Paul mentioned we're hopeful that at least activity continues at the brisk level even if it doesn't match this quarter.
And we'd expect fixed-income to somewhat return to the normal profitability levels particularly in the trading profit line going forward.
Asset Management we hope there's continued steady growth.
We did add capacity both with the small mid-cap team as well as ClariVest.
We -- assets under management I think Paul reported up 1.4%  organically this quarter and $3.1 billion added from ClariVest.
But we also anticipate that once the conversion is completed and some of these asset management products now are available to the Morgan Keegan sales force that there may be a little more of a surge into professionally managed product from that sales force.
Bank we kind of anticipate steady results going forward maybe even a little higher in the revenue side.
We're going to start seeing some impact from the loan growth that we've had here in the last 2 quarters.
As Paul reported credit metrics continue to improve.
And so far our interest spreads held in there it's still around 3.5%.
I think we've guided between 3.40% and 3.50% for the year.
And then one thing that has swung our results a little bit each quarter here lately has been Proprietary Capital.
And that also impacts as was correctly pointed out in at least one report this morning impacts the noncontrolling interest to some extent.
Just about every quarter we've got about $5 million to $6 million of what I'll call operating losses from consolidated Tax Credit Fund partnerships consolidated due to the ownership structure or the fact that we have a guarantee in place.
So that's a consistent add back in noncontrolling interest and that's what you saw in the September quarter and the December quarter a year ago because they were very few other significant factors.
The one that swung it around lately has been the consolidation of our merchant banking fund Raymond James Capital which has one investment left in it and it's had some significant valuation swings lately all positive and that happened again this quarter -- actually it's a dividend distribution from that entity.
That factors into other revenues on that line item and the portion that we don't own becomes a net deduct from income in noncontrolling interest which is what happened this quarter.
So that's going to bounce around.
We can analyze that in any level of detail that anyone wants to but net-net to RJ is as reported at a record level.
Okay.
We'd like Felicia to turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you could just give us a little bit more color on sort of your expectations for pretax margins in the Private Client business going forward.
I mean I know you've done about 7.4% this quarter and just like sort of the period right before the deal was done is a little bit above 9.
Is that the kind of level we should think about once the integration is done? Or given what you've said about getting increased productivity out of the Morgan Keegan guys once they're on the platform should we expect kind of a higher number going forward? I think Joel you're going to see a drag.
The Morgan Keegan margin were slightly lower if you really look at effective payout it's going to take time to get them up our payouts.
We went to a kind of a new grid we announced which was really neutral so we're not going to really get any pickup there.
So we expect them to improve but I think being back to 9 would be very difficult short-term.
We also have -- the other impact was the amortization of the retention bonuses for Morgan Keegan which impacts that line.
So a lot of money being run through on the amortization of retention impacts that ratio also.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I mean thinking about the loan loss provisions again clearly came in a bit below what we were looking for.
I mean when you think about it going forward are you guys targeting a specific say like allowance-to-loan ratio percentage? Or is this really going to kind of vary based on how many loans are paying off in the release of reserves that you have? Hey Joel.
It's Steve Raney good morning.
Yes it's really loan-specific there's not really a target per se.
Each loan is rated -- one of our -- each one of our corporate loans is rated individually.
We've been pretty aggressive at taking actions against loans that early on we perceived to be potentially problematic.
Even this quarter we sold loans a couple of loans a couple of positions that closed to par when we had rather significant reserves much more so than what we were able to sell the loan at.
So we're trying to be as proactive on that as possible.
But -- and as we're booking loans as we've shared with you in general we're adding about 150 to 160 basis points of the new loans on the corporate side it's a lower amount on the residential and our securities-based loans are lower than that even.
So it's really constructed at the loan level and there's not really a set target per se.
We are comfortable with where we stand in terms of our total allowance to non-accrual loans non-performing loans relative to our peer group and other institutions that we look at.
So...
So the noise you're going to get every quarter is -- our reserving is pretty consistent for grades.
But as loans pay off whatever reserves we have we have to release them and it's this thing that make it move around in quarters.
We actually added $0.5 million to our allowance.
But on a percentage basis it did come down 9 basis points in terms of allowance to total loans.
I guess we had to have a target for the allowance to loans that the -- having no classified loans of any kind and having 150 basis points of commercial and whatever we have on resi now.
Joel that's my boss.
I've got a pretty high bar to meet now.
So...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> 5% and you're [ph] up that way.
And then just lastly I mean -- and looking at sort of the December commission fee revenues it looks like it came in a bit above our expectations.
And just wondering could you comment on it if these kind of trends continued into January? December was a little on the institutional side because of the syndicate.
I mean they were slightly elevated because of there's a lot of the syndicate business.
In January I don't think is --  has been a bad month so far either but I think it got a little elevation from the Equity Capital Markets business.
But you're down in the fixed income business I think will -- it'd pick back up.
So I don't see anything -- I can't -- I haven't looked close enough at the January numbers to tell you where we stand.
We have set slightly higher fee billings than we did October 1 for the quarterly stuff despite that's down 1% S&amp;P 500 market and the December quarter.
Which will give us a little bit of a tailwind going into January also.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So a couple of question on expenses.
Maybe as you guys kind of look through this year I guess the first question is what do you guys see sort of the normalized comp rate settling in still right now kind of like in the high 60s? So isn't it 60 still I guess the number we should be thinking about for comp? We can see it coming down but I don't know mid-60s if you mean 65% if that's mid then it's no.
We can get improvements and the -- but there's only so much you're going to get out of operational and overhead synergies.
If you can get improvements it's going to be have to be in payouts and you're not going to see reduction in the Private Client Group are really payouts overall.
We're looking at a number of things including our client net pay pricing.
We're studying it right now.
We're doing other things that could impact margins.
We've said we're looking at the Equity Capital Markets we're operating heavy there and there'll be some.
But with the independent contractor division being 2/3 of the PCG you're not going to get it down that low.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And then I guess on the non-comp side it seems like especially in technology there's 2 things going on right? On the one hand you're still converting the platforms but also it sounds like you guys were doing a few upgrades that feels like might be also temporary in nature at least for now.
Is there a way to quantify that? And how much of a non-comp relief you guys would get once everything sort of settles down? Yes I think that there's 2 pieces.
One we have elevated technology for improvements and -- but there is certainly elevated technology costs for integration.
And honestly we are pretty conservative on what we call acquisition-related.
And I think until it all settles out you can't really get a good number.
We've given you $60 million to $80 million target we think we've gotten half although we think there's another half.
A lot of that is in ops and tech.
Then we're just going to have to wait till we settle through.
But our technology spend is up it's not sustainable at the level we have out but -- because of the integration expenses.
But it is up from prior and will continue to be as we look to actually strategically position our technology as a leader which I think we're getting good results so far.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Very helpful.
And then Steve I have a quick question for you on the bank.
So loan growth is obviously very good can you give us a sense of where the organic loan growth is coming in from? And at the same time revenues down a little bit sequentially I'm assuming that's because net interest margin has come down.
And I just want to clarify if you guys think that this is probably the run rate NIM we should think about? Or that it's more kind of an incremental compression to go? In other words if we continue to see decent balance sheet growth should the revenue growth be kind of going in line with that? Yes.
Alex related to the loan growth it was across all of our loan classifications but the bulk of it was in our corporate area.
The December quarter we enjoyed some pretty robust opportunities in the marketplace both in the primary market and also we added some positions in the secondary market.
I would say that we're seeing -- those opportunities have kind of waned a little bit this quarter.
We've seen continued pressure on margins and also structure.
So I would not anticipate our loan growth to meet that close to 5 -- close to -- actually it was over 5% for the quarter.
I would not anticipate that for the next few quarters.
Although we're growing at a slower rate I would anticipate over  the next couple of quarters.
Related to our revenue number there was a couple of things that impacted our net revenues.
Our -- we have a bank on life insurance policy that is about a $65 million investment that had about an $800 000 swing a negative swing between the December quarter and the September quarter.
And also while the vast majority of our Canadian loans are in our Canadian enterprise that are hedged against the Canadian currency we do have some legacy Canadian denominated loans in the bank itself that are unhedged and that had about a $2.5 million impact negatively between the December and the September quarter.
So those 2 things in combination with the slightly lower net interest margin contributed to the reduction in our net revenues for the December quarter.
In terms of our NIM going forward I know Jeff alluded to this we are seeing some pressure.
I would anticipate although it really hung in there this last quarter it only came down 3 basis points.
I think over the next few quarters you're going to continue to see some slight reduction maybe over the next 12 months a reduction by as much as 10 basis points or so on a run-rate basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Devin Ryan with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up on the strength of PCG results.
And I guess specifically in December was that driven by year end client repositioning just given looming tax hikes or was there something else driving that? I know that sometimes you have some onetime maybe boost related to selling in a product related to analyst top picks.
Just trying to get a sense what really kind of boosted that earn improvement on that in there in December.
And then it's kind of a part 1 in the question.
And then secondly with the equity mutual funds seeing some inflows the past couple of weeks here are you seeing similar positioning within your client base and any signs of changes in engagement levels? Yes.
Two things.
Certainly December had packed harvesting and held positionings and yes both.
Tax loss and tax gain selling.
Certainly the syndicate business was a good month.
So you had positive spend in December that certainly boost the business.
But having said that January appears to be a good month too.
So it's certainly you have factors like that impacted.
And so yes we've had -- we had some boost from those factors.
And I think the business is still very solid and continues to grow very well.
So we'll see.
Your second question I'm sorry? L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So essentially just -- we've had some positive flow trends and I know it's only been a couple of weeks.
But just wanted to see if you're maybe seeing some early signs of improvement in retail investor engagement now? Clearly things were in the year end I would say were -- investors were less engaged.
Just want to see if there's been any maybe shift in engagement levels? No.
We see -- I think that our investors' sentiment and our sentiment -- investor sentiment survey is up.
We haven't seen a massive move to equities.
I know a lot of the funds are showing big inflows.
I think we've been more with our investors we try to keep them engaged maybe they've been a little more engaged in other places.
So I haven't seen a big movement yet.
But having said that the commission levels in January have been pretty good so far.
I'm a little bit behind in terms probably up to today.
But I mean I can't say we've seen a huge flood into equity since the beginning of the year.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And then just following up on expenses.
When you say that you're halfway there on expenses does that mean that essentially half of that $60 million to $80 million targeted cost say at run rate from Morgan Keegan had already been reflected in the results that we've seen? I just want to kind of clarify what that comment means.
Yes.
My -- I think that's where we are.
And I know that CEOs as a breed aren't patient and I have an expression that patience is a waste of time.
And so we look at that expenses and want to get at them.
But I think our strategy from the very beginning was focused on retention and to let operating expenses run at a level that support the integration.
So we're committed to get them out.
We can't zero on them yet because frankly we're focused on flipping the switch in mid-February and getting the integration done and making sure that goes as smoothly as possible.
All of our testing shows it's going very well.
But it won't go perfect it never does us.
But we anticipate it will go well.
Like any new systems we have almost 500 advisors on a totally new system on a day.
We're going to have operational support just because they're not used to the system.
Doesn't matter where they came from with their own people we would have that.
So we're going to be running elevated for a while and we think there's savings there.
And I know you guys want a harder quantification.
We think we've gotten half and we'll get half more but to pinpoint it we can't yet but we're very focused on it.
And after the integration as we get through this second quarter I think in the third quarter we'll be doing a lot of work to position ourselves to do that.
Yes.
That's the majority debt of what we've realized has been in the Capital Markets area where we've combined the departments.
As an example on equity capital markets hopefully your retaining most of the revenue-producing individuals.
At the same time you're eliminating duplicate research analysts and financial analysts and et cetera.
Some of the support level people so both in ECM and fixed income there's been -- that's where most of the duplicative costs have come out.
So the ones that are left are primarily going to be in the PCG support and ops and IT.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just within investment banking your underwriting revenues clearly an improvement from last quarter.
But let me just get your perspective on -- not an number but just kind of what the upside is to that business? I feel like there's improvement there but you're probably still hitting well below your potential.
And then clearly we don't have a functioning IPO market at this time.
So well just to get some perspective on kind of where we are relative to what you think is maybe the more normal level for you guys? Well that's kind of a crystal ball question.
So we're either overstaffed or the markets aren't performing enough.
But one or the other.
So it's a measure of potential.
It's very very hard.
Certainly in a robust market we would -- we have a lot of upside.
Now the question is "Do we really think the markets are going to turn that quickly?" So I think we've seen some improvement.
Our view is December was an extremely unusually good quarter.
Almost.
And that business will be better and we predict the business will be better than last year in our budgeting process.
Having said that I think we've got some cost capacity issues and we're going to have an improving market.
So hopefully over the year will get pickups in both.
But you tell me how good the market is and I can tell you how well we'll do.
We're certainly impacting upside if we get a functioning equity capital markets business.
But I don't see any vast improvements short-term.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly within your investment advisory fees was there a meaningful performance fee within that? I know that this is a quarter where you can record performance fees or a higher number of performance fees.
So I just want to get a sense of that boosted results in a little bit and how much.
There is nothing -- no unusual stuff like that.
Nothing this year.
I think there was a small one last year.
I guess that's good news and bad news right? The next question comes from the line of Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the synergies here from Morgan Keegan not to beat the dead horse here.
But it sounds like we're pushing it out or it's going to -- start to be realized here in the fourth quarter.
How should we think about the pace of those synergy realizations once we get there? Is it going to be something that we might see a lot of them accrue fairly quickly.
So like in the fourth quarter and then queue on the next year? Or is it something that's going to kind of take a gradual process to actually fully realize what we have remaining? So it's more of a next fiscal year type event where we see the bulk of those kind of kick in.
No.
I think there's 2 pieces.
One is in our view we haven't pushed it out so we've been on a schedule.
I think people have always taught that we're being very conservative and people think we're going to be doing it quicker.
We've been pretty consistent that through this integration process we're going to run elevated.
I think people thought there'd be more fallout.
Maybe we even thought more people would leave on their own they've stayed the course.
And so our view still is that through -- certainly the second quarter and into the third quarter we'll be running on those levels.
And then we will get at them the third quarter and fourth quarter my guess is we will get a lot out by the fourth quarter.
It may not be fully reflected until the first quarter of next year in the normal run rate.
Maybe in the fourth quarter will be some of it will be reflected.
So somewhere in there but our commitment is to get the synergies out this fiscal year.
I just can't tell you which quarter they're going to hit.
Some of those are the efficiencies what I call the synergies you get over time.
And I do believe either getting the Morgan Keegan advisors and the PCG side more productive synergies and kind of cross-selling the business.
The good news is I think we've gotten a lot of people in the other businesses a little more focused on the marketplace.
One of the risks in any combination as you get a little internally focused and hopefully we'll get a lot more of that when we get through the systems conversion and the last adjustment in the op and tech part of the business.
But I think that will focus in the next year.
So net-net I think it's still a great a combination.
It gives us great market position a great platform.
And it's just going to take us this year to get it done.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
A few questions then on Capital Markets.
We've talked about M&amp;A being very strong this quarter.
A lot of folks are kind of predicting that this year will be very strong for M&amp;A.
Curious to get your thoughts as to how the margin in that business is affected by revenue mix? So in other words if we get a very strong environment for M&amp;A this year and maybe commissions aren't as robust is that mix better for you guys from a margin perspective than maybe having the year shape out the other way where you get a stronger commission revenue and less on the M&amp;A and underwriting? They're -- the 2 assets.
First I hope they're right and this is a record M&amp;A year.
Part of this business too especially when you're a research-based firm is you have a big fixed cost called research.
And you are paying that whether it's over the desk commissions whether it's underwritings or its M&amp;A.
So if you look at M&amp;A as a pure business because it's less research-oriented or the payouts maybe a little more advantageous at some more profitable business.
But if revenue goes down in one area and goes up in the other you still have your fixed cost recover.
So if you say a switching of the business from revenue I don't think helps us a lot of.
A pickup in M&amp;A would be very very helpful to us.
So the commission payouts for salespeople are lower than M&amp;A payouts for bankers.
But we don't expect the over the desk trend of decreasing although it was up this quarter over the last year we don't think that declining trend or over the desk commissions has been one for a while now for years.
And we don't see it looming back up.
But if that loomed up our payouts are lower in that area than in some other areas.
So it depends on the mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on staffing in Capital Markets.
I think on the last call you guys were mentioning you were in a kind of exploratory phase of taking a look at your headcount there and I think it was during a kind of up fairly weak period in the markets.
Now that things looked to be picking up or they improved this last quarter are you guys putting those plans on hold? Or is that something that you're still kind of monitoring at this point? Yes.
We're looking I'd say we believe there's some structural changes in that business.
If you look what's happening to over desk commissions our people are paying you for research but we do have to make changes whether there are a number of people or in payout.
So we are still looking.
Certainly we were so busy in December we didn't do anything but execute and I -- and that's the better answer.
But there are still some structural cost side that we have to achieve even in -- if markets continue to be good we've got to make some changes and we are still working on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Hugh Miller with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I guess kind of a question in the line of the recruiting environment.
You guys have talked about how you feel as though the opportunities are robust.
I realized December quarter is always a challenge to really bring on advisors.
But just want to get a sense of kind of what's driving that strength because from what I'm hearing with brokers production that's been improving overall for the industry most firms' satisfaction levels amongst those brokers has improved and is fairly high at most firms and I've always found that that kind of -- it makes more of a challenge to get people to make a move.
So what is it that you guys are seeing that gets you confident about the recruiting environment? I mean I know that you can gauge by home office visits but what are you seeing now that really get the advisor to make a move? Thanks Hugh.
Though it's just a study done I forgot who it was by of financial advisor satisfaction and that's when Edward Jones really ranked high and if you look relatively one of the wire houses had pretty good scores.
The other 2 I believe the study said 20% or plus of their FAs yet the numbers has been expected to be there within 2 years.
So I wouldn't call that high satisfaction.
And a lot of that was driven by premerger and I can tell you by the visits here that the biggest question most people have is that we aren't given -- getting rid of all this front money and being in a place I like to work versus being trapped at a place where I'm at for money.
I mean so I would not call satisfaction at number of the big firms high.
In fact the survey shows just the opposite.
So we continue to get 2 strong pipelines from especially 2 other firms and brokers that are very unhappy in the environment they're in.
Took checks don't like the environment and they're looking to make the change.
So now people take their time they don't always come when they look but our backlog of home office visits and the high-traffic volume indicates very positive momentum for us.
LLC</strong> Okay yes I'm actually looking at that survey right here in my hand.
And I think it was one firm in particular that had some 50% satisfaction where all the other ones were 70% or above.
So basically the handful of or the firm or 2 that doesn't have that satisfaction that you guys are seeing those opportunities from? Yes.
I think that if you're going to look and say how many clients will be there in a few years I think there -- yes there's 2 firms I think we're getting strong pipeline from.
So particularly -- so -- but we're getting -- and honestly I think a few other things have happened for us is that the Morgan Keegan acquisition I feared would might scare people off.
It's increased interest.
We've rolled out some new things on our independent platforms and models and pricing that just -- which is -- got a lot of interest.
And our technology news is really getting out now.
We've mobilized a lot of our apps.
We have advisor technology or advisor platform.
And our client platform are looking at very strong reviews.
And I think people will get surprised when they see us.
So part of our issue is to get advisors to see what's really here.
I don't think a lot of them even know what's available and when we get them in the door which is the test they're very very positively surprised.
And honestly there's only a handful of firms left that have what I call that original broker/dealer culture but the financial advisors.
And I'm not saying it's good or bad it's just different.
We offer a different environment.
A lot of people grew up in the environment we offer and when they come in see that they can get paid reasonably well and competitively.
They can get leading technology.
They can get the culture.
We get a lot of interest.
So usually we find them we get them in the door we get pretty good success rate.
We just got to keep getting them in the door.
LLC</strong> And you guys have commented on the new product neutral compensation plan.
It was supposed to be effective later this year.
And we're just wondering if you really expected that to have a substantial influence on product mix and the comp ratio that in and of itself with comp ratio and retail segment or is it just kind of very modest? We modeled it to be neutral.
And part of it was to get the Morgan Keegan integration then we're on a different grid than we were.
And though the view was just to make it simple very transparent.
And I think we have to see over time if it causes a movement in product.
We can always change pricing or change the grid if there's adverse effect.
We're very clear to our advisors 2 things.
That most people announced in December there's a new grid in January.
We announced in January that it was effective October 1.
So we give a lot of notice we don't want to surprise advisors.
And then we're very open about changes.
We change it very seldomly but we tell advisors that for it to be fair -- that's to be fair to clients first then it has to be good for them and for our shareholders.
And we're very open in the communication.
So -- but we modeled it to be neutral.
LLC</strong> Okay I agree.
And then the last question it was -- just with the -- within the capital market segment you talked about some of those opportunities.
So I was wondering if you could focus in a little bit with the addition of the Howe Barnes franchise and looking at the financial segment within capital markets.
And your expectations there and how discussions are going with clients and companies you work with and the prospects we're seeing in improvement in that space in the coming year? We -- first we've had great retention.
We've got good leadership during that Howe Barnes acquisition.
It's a -- very happy with position of the client space.
We're really happy as the markets stinks.
I mean bank acquisitions has not been robust.
Recapitalization of prices last year I think surprised everybody that the market just went silent.
So it's picked up some.
We believe there'll be consolidation will pick up so we like the people we like the positioning.
But if you look at that isolated financially since the acquisition it wasn't the best of timing just from a pure financial standpoint.
But we've got very good bankers very good people and when that market picks up we think we'll realize that investment.
LLC</strong> Sure sure.
And then -- but are you getting any sense? Do you feel that now is you're going to potentially get that change in dynamics in the coming year or so? Or is it just a wait-and-see? I think you're starting to see some movement but whether to say it's robust or not I can't tell you.
It's going to come I don't know when.
Your next question comes from the line of Douglas Sipkin with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So a question for Steve and then a retail question.
With respect to the bank obviously I know the firm's philosophy is not to release reserves.
But I mean is it possible you would find yourself in a position where the loan growth does slow down and it sounds like that at least going to happen in the near term but the credit quality continues to improve? I mean how do you avoid the situation where you may have to release reserves? I mean is that a possibility over the next couple of quarters if credit quality continues to improve? Good morning Doug.
Yes that's absolutely a possibility.
We can have a situation where you have no loan growth at all and we can -- we do have and then we disclose what our criticized asset levels are and then have higher reserves.
Obviously than our pass-rated loans.
You could have continued improvement in credit that would cause us to release reserves.
And you can have a situation where for whatever reason in that quarter your charge-offs also exceeded your provisioning.
So that can happen.
I think that the key thing to remember is that the reserves are loans specific.
You would say it's bad news when you get the criticized loan to pay off it's good news too.
But the problem is you have to release that reserve and there's no choice.
So we don't do general reserve releases when loans pay off.
You have to release that specific reserve.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Because I mean effectively it looks like that took place this quarter right? Because you did have pretty nice loan growth and as you indicated it was more on the C&amp;I side so that has a higher upfront provision.
So if that didn't happen obviously it did but if didn't happen you probably would have had a negative number.
That -- no that is correct.
That's right.
I would say probably -- just if you isolated just the loan growth itself our provision expense is probably $2.5 million or virtually all of what -- a big chunk of what our actual provisioning was related to loan growth.
Now behind that there was a lot of noise upgrades downgrades sales of criticized loans and the likes.
So...
Sixth or seventh.
Maybe it's seventh and 1.5.
Yes.
Wait a minute.
1.5 and 406 to go.
Well we had $2.5 million in all categories of just loan growth.
I mean it was not just incorporated.
So...
But that sounds a lot.
I agree with that.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then second question as it relates to the private client.
Obviously you guys have been tremendously successful early adopters of managed products fee-based models.
I mean as you bring on the Morgan Keegan advisors to one platform I'm just trying to get a sense whole company how much more room is there obviously at the broker advisors discretion to move to a greater population of your retail franchise to those managed account fee-based models versus the historic traditional commission based model? They are if you look at their productivity it's about 15% 14% lower than our employee productivity.
And a lot of that is the percentage of fee-based models.
And we think over time they will move there.
Now we don't tell advisors they have to use our product or they have to use the platform.
So we go through both education which they are already attending on the products and on management of portfolio.
And yes over time we think that my guess is they will move up there because they'll see it's good for them or it's good for their clients.
And so we believe we'll get the room on those advisors that they will catch up.
But that's not overnight that's over a year or 2 we think they'll -- we all get there.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that have you guys had internal studies to sort of show how much more profitable over a cycle over some measurement period that type of account is for Raymond James versus the traditional? Actually in some cases it's less profitable.
If you get somebody that has a new issue oriented or pretty heavy trading volume that's probably the most profitable especially when you add margin to the overall complexion of the analysis.
The philosophy behind fee-based for us early on is to put the advisor in the same basis as the client as their comp and their success went up and down with the client.
So it wasn't really driven by profit.
And we're a short over a cycle which relates much more philosophy in putting the client first.
Having said that the steady markets means a steady income for the advisor.
But as Tom pointed out that as someone is the -- you have a client that would like to trade a lot you have a lot of activity that can generate a lot of commission revenue.
So and we wanted to avoid that kind of mindset too where people are focused on trading versus advising.
So a lot of that drive in the early adoption with the philosophical adoption.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got you so it's really...
Assets that you can actually handle.
And you can find a lot of our financial advisors with $0.25 billion assets now with a small team of support.
And that's happened because of the asset management services platform that we have and you were quite what correct in pointing out that over time because of the support we give people not in putting individual investments but in teaching them how to use professional management has a levering capability to build their annuity business.
You will see over extended period of time that they will adopt it just because it's easier for them and better for the client as Paul said.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one final I know you guys provided a lot of detail on interest-rate sensitivity.
I'm assuming no change in sort of the pro forma impact obviously rates would have to go up for that to happen.
But you guys still comfortable with sort of the interest rate guidance that you provided in the past in the rising rate scenario? Yes.
Yes.
Haven't changed much in the last quarter.
That's correct.
We're just waiting for them to go up.
But we're so -- and as the government get to the interest rate management business we think we will see some benefit.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citi.
This is actually Neil filling in for Bill.
My first question is you earlier mentioned record productivity for the advisors.
Is there a particular metric you focus on here? Their trailing 12 productions.
What they were producing over the last 12 months.
You'll find if you try to compare that across everybody calculates it's just a little bit differently.
They include or exclude trainees or people that have only been with them in a short time et cetera et cetera.
We don't count people until they've been with us for a year so we can hire some significant producers and they won't factor into that number for a year.
But that just shows a manifestation of the people that we hired in the past.
We measure it consistently and it is a record and this will continue to go up.
So I think it is a reflection of more productivity for advisors.
And my final question can you provide any color on the other revenue line? It saw a nice sequential pick up this quarter? Again it would have to do with that proprietary capital where were we consolidate.
That's also why you saw a net deduct from earnings related to noncontrolling interest.
It had to do with the consolidation of our merchant banking fund which had a significant valuation adjustment in the quarter and some -- the majority of which does not belong to us.
Which is why it came out to noncontrolling interest.
So it's the net.
And there are no further audio questions at this time.
Great.
Well we appreciate everyone joining the call.
Again we're still committed to the integration.
I know people are really trying to focus on the synergies to get the numbers are.
We're focus on the conversion retaining advisors.
And the synergies the cost efficiencies will come.
But again I would tell you that they will be late in the year which is probably our target unless we have a perfect conversion.
But I haven't seen one of those yet.
But we're -- we feel like it'll go very very well.
So thank you for your time and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Demetris and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the quarterly analyst call for Raymond James franchise (sic) [Financial].
[Operator Instructions] To the extent that Raymond James make forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters and variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K which is available on the raymondjames.com and sec.gov.
In addition to those factors and in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance: difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; changes in the capital markets; and diversion of management time on integration-related results.
To the extent Raymond James discusses non-GAAP results reconciliation in GAAP is available on raymondjames.com and the earnings release issued yesterday.
Thank you.
Mr.
Reilly you may begin your conference.
Thank you Demetris.
And good morning everyone.
I'm calling you from Dallas Texas.
We have our RJFS our independent advisor conference.
A little over half of our total independent advisors are here and in fact with our advisors [indiscernible] are guests in the home office and sponsors over 3 400 people attending.
So that's quite a conference.
The mood is very upbeat and very strong.
Jeff Jennifer and Steve Raney are in St.
Pete.
So we have a little bit of a split call so if we get to questions and answers either will cut in and cut out you'll understand.
We have now substantially completed our Morgan Keegan technology integration and have just started our Phase 2 rightsizing which will go through the fiscal year end.
I know that an awful lot of you that are trying to time some of the savings but there is a lag.
So as we just started our rightsizing in fact with our 160 people primarily in the technology segment which should benefit next quarter the numbers are just starting.
We're committed to complete it but it's going to be still a couple of quarters before we get it done.
The integration costs are still high and the benefits still not fully realized.
Overall our business is good.
The retention is strong and believe that our combined platforms puts us in a great shape to compete.
Last night we reported record net revenues of $1.14 billion up 3% from the preceding quarter and 31% from last year's quarter.
EPS per diluted share of $0.56 down 8% from the preceding quarter but up 8% from the prior quarter.
And the non-GAAP EPS taking out our integration charges and other charges of $0.68 down 1% down $0.01 from the preceding quarter but up 6% from the preceding quarter.
If you look at our businesses I believe our businesses are really in good shape.
And all but one I think had pretty good performance.
And I know the numbers are moving and it's hard for everyone to get a handle on them given the integration.
But let me try to walk you through the big picture and we'll have Jeff dive into the numbers a little more.
Private Client business is in good shape.
Our revenue was up 2% and I think that's in line with -- in the same ballpark as most of our competitors.
And you have to remember that our Morgan Keegan colleagues were put onto our platform in the middle of a quarter.
And they're new systems and they spent a lot more time entering stuff and learning the systems that's taken them a little bit out of the market.
So I think that that transition has gone about as well as it could.
I think it's positioned.
The people are on our technology.
If you track our help desk calls that were significantly elevated for the first week slightly elevated the second week have come back to about normal levels.
So it certainly impacted productivity of that group.
We can't prove that anymore because we have them all consolidated in our numbers but certainly I believe it had an impact on them.
Our technology rightsizing of the 160 people should benefit mainly PCG in this segment.
That's going to be $5 million per quarter going forward before the other types of cost synergies that we work on in the next 2 quarters.
Assets under administration hit a new record of $407 billion up 5% and up an impressive 30% from a year ago.
And you also have to remember that we bill in advance.
So last quarter we came basically with a 0.5% increase in assets under administration which didn't give us much tailwind coming into the quarter essentially flat a little up.
We'll be moving into the next quarter with a 5% tailwind as we bill in advance.
Assets under management also hit a new record.
$51 billion up 10% for the quarter which is a great number and up 30% off a year ago.
And they were both due to a rising equity market and also strong net inflows.
Our Asset Management Group was up 6% in net revenue from the preceding quarter and 19% from last year.
Pretax was flat basically due to the addition of ClariVest but it was up 26% over a year ago.
So I think we have a little bit of blip as we brought ClariVest cost into our structure for the fourth quarter.
Capital Markets was a tough quarter for us.
And I think if there was disappointment for us and frankly for the industry for the people the businesses that we were in is it was a tough quarter.
ECM had strong positive secondary commission flow.
It was actually up 10% for the quarter which has been unusual.
We have a positive trend starting to trend positively.
Some of that due to our underwriting some of it due to just overall flow.
The underwriting markets have improved and we see some continuing improvement.
But like most other firms like us reporting M&amp;A was well off from what we expected and I think most people expected.
I don't think most of us recognize we've been trying to say that there was an acceleration and M&amp;A would be much slower this quarter.
But if you look back at last December the month of December alone was a record M&amp;A quarter for us and that was due mainly to the acceleration of deals as people looked at potential tax law changes and the fiscal cliff.
So M&amp;A was a very very tough and really and the Equity Capital Markets business had the major impact.
Fixed income has been steady.
It certainly isn't the -- the Morgan Keegan integration has gone very well but results are off from the early -- the last couple of quarters from the early returns basically because commission volumes are down across all of our businesses as we had very low interest rates and a very flat yield curve and people expecting rates go up sometime.
I think that just commissions are off.
And our trading profits in the muni space like everyone else in the industry has been hit.
They were a significant contributor to profits.
But the last quarters last 2 quarters they were barely positive.
They were slightly positive but really weren't the significant contributors.
Again due to rates and the yield curve.
RJ Bank basically loans were flat.
We showed a drop from $8.5 billion to $8.4 billion -- $8.5 billion to $8.4 billion.
But actually it was $44 million drop so we got caught in the rounding from $8.416 billion from $8.450 billion.
So we did have a modest compression in spreads and we ended up in a $2.5 million drop in net interest income.
The surprise part not a surprise to us was the Proprietary Capital where we have contracted to sell Albion Medical Holdings one of our Proprietary Capital holdings.
We expect it to close at the end of this month or soon within then.
But due to that the Proprietary Capital segment contributed $20 million of pretax earnings for the quarter.
The Morgan Keegan integration continues to be on track.
Everyone is now operating under the RJ brand across all platforms.
In fact our training folks who are out in the field have come back home from the offices as we believe that people are up on our platform and very very comfortable.
We've just begun the cost synergies in the business.
So as I mentioned earlier 160 people in technology which is very culturally difficult for us.
It's the first really layoff we've ever had in St.
Petersburg being a family-run company I mean these are people in our community where most people there are friends of our kids friends mothers and fathers and people we've known for a long time but it was necessary given the integration.
And we have more to do in terms of the cost cutting that is the biggest in terms of numbers of people.
But we will continue to do that over the next 2 quarters as it will bring the costs closer in line going forward.
So with that let me turn it over to Jeff who will get a little bit more into the numbers.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
My big-picture take on this quarter as you just look at numbers you see basically 3.5 of our 4 major segments almost flat with the preceding quarter.
The 0.5 that was off would be equity capital equity side of Capital Markets.
Off substantially for the reasons Paul mentioned and Proprietary Capital increase made up most of that shortfall which caused us to be again roughly flat in total with the preceding quarter.
We're not saying that flat is good.
We're just saying that that's the dynamic.
Let me talk about a couple of the facts and figures that you all have raised in your early comments but we had -- I had planned on commenting on anyway.
The comp ratio total comp was flat with the preceding quarter.
We had obviously with some of the Capital Markets falloff we had some reduction in comp-related there but we did have increases in comp related to consolidating ClariVest for the first time.
There was -- someone pointed out there was a modest amount of comp related to the private equity sale.
And in addition one of the points we mentioned at the non-GAAP some of the restructuring cost were severance costs in the European operation that found their way into comp as well.
So some of the -- the overall net-net-net comp was flat.
We had -- we have started on the compensation reduction rightsizing plan.
We talked about the what I'll call the significant rift that we had on April 11 of 160 people.
But in the March quarter itself between -- mostly between the conversion date of February 19 and the end of the quarter we also had several million dollars of compensation reduction from people who either left voluntarily or who had contracted to be with us only up to that time et cetera through conversion.
So the savings of $5 million only related to that rift but that number is probably slightly understated when you add in all these and also were let go or left toward the end of the March quarter itself.
So though the comp ratio itself showed improvement in the quarter again it was related to the Albion revenues replacing higher compensation Capital Markets revenues so there really was not much if any improvement.
Although it shows that not through the March quarter but we pointed out we expect to see some reductions hit starting in the next quarter.
Net interest income.
We had a little bit of slippage.
Paul pointed out the bank margin tightening a little bit.
It did 18 basis points on what we call adjusted NIM.
We are continuing to hold several hundred million dollars of excess cash above and beyond what we really want in our bank in order to provide our clients with insurance as we're still capacity constrained in our bank waterfall program.
Just to remind you the extra cash that the bank holds has no capital requirement associated with it as it's really in zero-risk weighted overnight Fed deposits.
It does have a positive spread to the bank.
So it's helping earnings and it's helping ROE.
The only statistic that's getting damaged by them holding that excess cash is the net interest margin.
So for the foreseeable future until we are able to secure capacity you'll see us do a reporting of the NIM like we did this quarter.
Noncontrolling interest bounced around a lot.
To help your analyses we actually put a schedule in the press release this time detailing out the items within noncontrolling interest.
I know it bounces around a lot.
There's some positives and some negatives in that schedule in terms of our share.
So hopefully that helps people understand what's in NCI.
Recurring revenues are steady at 54%.
There wasn't a big shift in business in any direction.
That's about where it's been running since our acquisition of Morgan Keegan.
It's down a little from where it had been running as Morgan Keegan is being fixed income related and less PD-based and PCG actually it was -- had a lower recurring revenue percentage than our legacy company did.
So we dropped from the high-50s to the mid-50s in terms of recurring revenue percentage.
In terms of our product mix we've seen even since the last quarter about a 2% shift from cash and other investments over to the equity side in terms of our client holdings.
But I would tell you that's probably not people actually moving that's probably more a result of just appreciation on the equity side causing the change in allocation there.
Our shareholders equity which is shown in the press release is approaching $3.5 billion.
Over $25 per share total book and $22.5 tangible book now.
A couple of other things.
Acquisition and integration costs our original estimate for the grand total of what we would incur was $110 million.
We thought it will be $70 million in the first year and $40 million in the second year.
It turned out it was only $60 million in the first year but it looks like it's going to be closed to $50 million in this year.
So our original estimate is going to be right.
The split between the 2 years may be a little off but we're at just under $100 million cumulatively now.
And our best estimate is we got about $5 million to $10 million more to come in the next 2 quarters.
And then we should be through with that line item.
Cost synergies we've talked about a lot.
We've talked about a $60 million to $80 million number from the beginning.
We told you in December we were about halfway done.
What our best estimates now of synergies to be realized starting April 1 going forward is about $35 million probably give or take.
The timing of realizing all those is a little uncertain.
Things like restacking our Memphis office space and things like that negotiating with landlords although the timing of that is a little unclear.
But definitely those will be front-loaded because most of it's compensation expense and a large part of that's happening right now as we speak in the June quarter.
A couple of comments on expenses which were also noted in the reports.
I've talked about comp expense.
Datacom which showed an 8% increase this quarter.
By way of reminder it was just barely up in the first quarter from September.
It's a little bit lumpy as to when systems come onstream and we start the amortization and the maintenance fee process et cetera.
So that's a little bit lumpy.
We certainly don't expect 8% per quarter increases in that line item over the course of a year or we would take some drastic steps to change that.
Other expense.
When you strip out the nonrecurring items and NCI noncontrolling interest-related items you actually see that the true-up used to be just in other -- through other was actually down quarter-over-quarter by about $6 million.
And the largest lumpy item if you will in there typically is legal expense where we -- sometimes we have new cases sometimes we settle cases and reverse reserves if they are favorably settled.
So that's kind of a quick walk through the numbers.
The ROE at 11.4% on a non-GAAP basis is kind of about where we've been running.
It's not fair I don't think in your writeups to discount all of the benefits that we receive from the sale of Albion.
In prior quarters we've had quite a bit of writeups related to that investment over time.
So it's actually been impacting our results not nearly to this extent but it's been impacting results for many quarters in just to a lesser amount.
So I don't think it would be appropriate to totally discount it but you can do as you like there.
In my own opinion I think the assets under management up 10% that's really what the billings are related to.
The billings are probably up 7% because it's not all equity in our asset management sector.
But billings are probably up about 7% so there is the lift that Paul was talking about for the second quarter as opposed to the 5% total client assets.
One other comment on the bank loans.
It's going to be as we mentioned it will be a challenge to grow them but the other thing that we're going to be perhaps challenged with is the receipt of the SNC exam here.
If the timing followed last year it will be the end of June.
So it will be in this June quarter.
As you know the way we treat that is we take the lesser rating of what they come up with or what we already have it on the books.
So it's not ever a positive number to us.
It's been a fairly controllable couple of million dollar type number in the last couple of years.
So as we continue to try to get pretty far ahead of the hit of the ratings on these loans and we adequately reserve going forward.
So with that I'll turn over to Paul to give me his outlook on the segment this fiscal year.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
I think that as we kind of look forward with record assets under administration and our asset management assets under management being up significantly.
Both provide good tailwinds for the Private Client Group and asset management businesses.
They are -- they bill in -- the Private Client Group bills quarterly in advance.
As I mentioned previously we only had a 0.5% really increase the year before -- I mean the quarter before coming into the quarter.
So we have much stronger tailwinds plus the conversions behind us.
And I think the advisors are really focused on their business.
I'm actually pretty positive given the flows of equity markets so far.
So I think we've got good tailwinds and should see good results on those businesses.
The banks will be I think a little more challenged in this way.
Loans were rounding down.
Most of the down had to do -- we had a $200 million sale of our SBA loans.
We warehouse them there sell them up if it gets lumpy and build them back up.
And so C&amp;I was actually up.
But we're projecting -- our best guess is bank -- the net loan should be flat to down slightly.
The flow is great.
We're seeing a lot of stuff.
But there's a lot of -- a lot of the financings are covenant-light and we don't like them.
So we are maintaining our credit standards.
We won't take a covenant-light loan unless it's an extremely strong credit.
And if the market moves away from us from a credit perspective we will grow loans slower.
So you can't say 1 month or 1.5 months or a quarter as a trend but we're concerned about that so I think it will be difficult to grow loans in the next quarter given that environment.
And also with the SNC exam coming there may be a charge.
We actually hope the examiners are tough on covenant-light loans.
And if it tightens up covenants we'll participate in more loans.
So the bank outlook for the next quarter we think flat to down slightly in terms of net loans.
The Capital Markets are a little more difficult to estimate.
The Equity Capital Markets the commission flow has been good.
The underwriting market has improved and if the Equity Capital Markets stay in good shape and that's the big if we should see improvement.
M&amp;A volume although in the industry we're seeing it down we're actually seeing deals starting to close again as the backlog acceleration has worn off.
And so my guess is we'll see improvement in Equity Capital Markets throughout the second half of our year if Equity Capital Markets participate.
And I think the fixed income business will be challenged to grow in this interest rate environment.
It's been a very steady performer with steady margin but until rates move or there's an impetus for people to really start repositioning their fixed income portfolios that the commission volume I don't see anything that's going to push it to grow significantly.
And municipal trading [indiscernible] in this type of rate environment would be very very difficult.
So with that could everyone hear me? [Technical Difficulty] Jeff? Yes.
I'm sorry.
I don't know where I got cut off.
I got disconnected somehow here.
All right.
You're back.
Where did I got cut off? When you said can you hear me.
I think you were about to lead into questions Paul you said with that.
Yes.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Just as a reminder so I think where we are is the cost synergies are going to take some time to get out longer than I think most of the analysts have estimated.
And I think we tried to signal that they'd be in through the rest of the fiscal year and it's still going to take us those couple of quarters to get there but we're committed to doing that.
And overall if you look at the first 6 months versus the first 6 months last year we've had very very strong results with net revenue up 36% and net income up 22%.
Our non-GAAP fully diluted EPS up 17%.
So the businesses are in good shape and we just have to finish the job of getting the costs out and we hope obviously the markets will stay favorable.
We're in a great position to compete.
So with that I'll turn it back to Demetris for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Paul I appreciate your commentary on the M&amp;A market because we're certainly seeing a pretty big slowdown early on just from what seems like the pull forward of the middle market activity.
I mean in terms of the deals starting to flow through I mean how long do you think this overhang is actually going to last on the market? I can tell Joel.
I mean typically the big numbers in the market are affected by major transactions but the middle market seems to follow.
So I think the deal flow-through of the things in backlog and I guess the question is overall -- if overall M&amp;A deals slow down I mean we'll certainly be impacted throughout the year.
I think it's ironic to most people that kind of still record low rates and most people optimistic about going forward getting revenue growth that M&amp;A would slow down at this pricing.
But that's the report from everybody else.
So I can't really tell you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sort of thinking about the other revenue line.
So with the sale of the stake in Albion should we think about this more in sort of the $10 million to $20 million range going forward? Other revenues let's see what the -- you mean from private equity or just in total? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean just in total it seems like that's a line that certain of the unrealized gains over the quarters you guys listed have been sort of in the...
We have other private equity-related investments.
So there'll be some activity related to those.
It looks like the ongoing run rate unrelated to private equity is in that ballpark that you just mentioned.
But there still will be some lumpiness related to our other private equity investments.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I appreciate the commentary about the loan growth but just thinking about in this sort of flat loan levels how should we be thinking about NIM going forward? Joel it's Steve Raney.
Yes continued pressure on net interest margin.
I would think that over the next couple of quarters you could see further compression in the 15 to 20 basis point range.
We're being selective not only on credit but also on return and there are credits that we're passing on that just don't meet our return expectation relative to the risk that we think we'll take with the loan.
So as Paul and Jeff mentioned we're not under any huge pressure to grow loans and if the opportunities are there to do that we will take advantage of it.
But if they're not we're not going to compromise on what we think is unacceptable return or credit.
Your next question comes from the line of Hugh Miller Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I guess as a follow-up on the banking questions.
I was wondering is there anything that's either geographically or product-specific that you're seeing more competition than in other areas? And the other follow-up is just is there the opportunity to potentially grow in Canada a bit quicker if you know -- or are you seeing the same type of environment there? Hey Hugh it's Steve again.
Really I would say it's relatively widespread in terms of the competitive landscape.
Probably more so in the C&amp;I the commercial and industrial loan portfolio.
But we're seeing it in the commercial real estate sector as well.
We're taking some actions against that in terms of some other industries.
We've not done any tax-exempt lending in the past.
That's something we're evaluating going into.
These tend to be good credits.
It will help NIM.
They tend to be -- you have better credits than the C&amp;I loan.
These will be loaned large enough for profits and municipalities.
It's not anything we've done in the past but we're evaluating that as another diversification strategy.
Your question about Canada we've actually grown Canada more rapidly than the -- than our U.S.
portfolio in the last couple of quarters seeing a lot of good traction there.
Some of the same dynamic exists but it's not nearly as widespread a competitive landscape.
There aren't as many players up there.
So that's been -- now we're over a year into that opportunity and investment that we made and that portfolio is actually growing more rapidly.
And it's turned out to be really good business for us.
LLC</strong> Okay appreciate the insight there.
And then I guess looking at the institutional equities that you did report.
I mean we did see a volume drop year-over-year and you guys saw quite a nice rise a double-digit rise year-over-year in the institutional equity commissions.
If you can just provide some color on kind of what's driving that? I wasn't sure if it was related to secondary trading post underwriting activity or if it's just market share grab or what you're seeing there? I would say it's all 3.
I think that we've done better in share.
Certainly the underwriting as we do retail oriented MLPs or REITs adds to that.
And we're just seeing better flows in the secondary trading too so it's a little bit of all 3.
And we anticipate that we're not going to get that kind of rise quarter-on-quarter but we don't see them going down in the short term.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean so is it safe to say -- we've seen kind of a shift in the assets coming back in the equities that you guys are seeing that sentiment changing a bit more in the institutional side versus the retail side? In this market I don't know how safe it is to say anything but I'd say yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last question was just on the recruiting side.
I mean you guys previously talked about being somewhat positive about the opportunities there and the pipeline for home office visits.
And it seemed like it wasn't kind of coming through this particular quarter with the net adviser headcount.
Can you just talk about that a bit further.
Are you still very optimistic in what your expectations are on the recruiting side? Yes I don't think we're going to see recruiting like we did in 2009.
But I think home office visits have been strong.
And I think if you look at this conference we had 65 people attending from other firms who were kind of kicking the tires here.
So that's our largest number since 2009 during the commotion in the market.
So it's good.
I will say that people tend to be slower when the markets are up.
When things are good people tend to take a little more time to make the decision.
So when things slow down a little bit they're much quicker to pull the trigger.
So I think we're in that.
The flows are good in terms of home office visits.
But I think it's taking a little longer to get people over.
The other trend is we're getting much larger advisers.
They continue to get multimillion dollar-producing teams coming through.
And again they tend to do a lot more due diligence also to move their books.
So we're happy with the flows and we'll have to see we're going to have to close.
But we still think we can do a good job on recruiting.
And average gross per adviser continues to increase.
One of the biggest net-net loss of advisers this past quarter was in Canada.
You may have noticed on the chart.
But a large part of that was a result of a grid change that they made that was more punitive to people in the low-end.
So they lost a chunk of advisers doing about $125 000 average gross which is far lower than the average recruit we're hiring.
And your next question comes from the line of Alex Wilson [ph] with Goldman Sachs.
Can we focus on expenses for a little bit? A couple of questions there.
I guess when you look at the comp grade in the quarter and when you exclude the gain you guys are accruing comp I guess at a -- at the 71 almost percent you comp grade.
And I understand you guys are going to get a little bit of a benefit next quarter with $5 million going away.
But how should we think about the comp grade I guess pro forma for the cost cuts for the next few quarters? And then as a follow-up to that non-comp it feels like there's a lot of things that are still kind of coming through that are one-off-ish.
Is there a way to quantify that and maybe Jeff you can tell us how we should think about total dollars in non-comp for the next couple of quarters? I think with respect to the comp ratio I think that we'll certainly see a downward trend from the -- you want to call it the [indiscernible] on the adjusted 70 to mid 60s.
But it will take us at least a couple of quarters or more to get there.
And that also implies some revenue help.
We got hurt this quarter a little bit with having the fixed cost in comp and equity capital markets when the revenues went away.
So with the normal market health whatever normal is anymore we still think that comp ratio with our mix of businesses that we got today should trend down say to the 66 type level over time.
But I can't tell you when that will be realized.
Obviously I think we'll start making progress on it right away here in the June quarter when you see some of these -- when you've seen some of these reductions in headcount that we've been talking about.
The other expenses are a little bit all over the board.
I mean occupancy you saw went down this quarter.
We've got a data center that will be coming onstream that will add a little bit to that but not much probably in this June quarter if not then the next quarter.
Occupancy I don't see moving a lot relative -- I don't see it doing much different than inflationary-type increases or CPI-type increases related to all of our leases and things like that.
Other expenses we've already talked about.
They're pretty well controlled.
And actually that's where some of the synergies come.
Some of the insurance expenses and audit expenses and things like that that we get the benefit of having Morgan Keegan rolled into Raymond James going forward here.
So I don't really see a big change there.
Business development we can control.
We can -- those are largely controllable expenses in terms of what we want to do in terms of branding in terms of conferences in terms of home office visits and bio visits and other things.
I think we're comfortable with where it is on a run rate right now.
So unless there's a dramatic change in revenues one way or the other I think that will probably stay where it is which leaves the wild card of Datacom.
It's very hard for us to predict the total cost to some of the projects underway when they come onstream which things are going off stream.
We've had contractors we've hired to keep some of the projects running that we will let go.
There's a lot of moving parts in Datacom.
As I told you I certainly don't expect that we'll see 8% per quarter increases in that line item throughout the year.
I would like to think that -- I don't necessarily think I can honestly tell you I believe it's peaked because it's a hard one to say.
But I certainly don't expect dramatic increases from here.
The best way for us to look at that expense I believe is as a percentage of revenues because you can't control some of your spend each year in that particular line item based on what the overall market firm is doing.
We're approaching if you exclude Albion again which I don't think is totally fair as I mentioned we're approaching 6% of revenues in that cost and that's a high level for us.
We haven't had enough internal discussions for me to tell you we've set some kind of absolute threshold et cetera.
But that's historically a high number and I'd be surprised if we went over that going forward.
I'd like to add another comment on expenses.
We are there during the conversion to spend money to get the conversion done and keep support levels.
And examples is our back-office operations.
If you take us pre-Morgan Keegan and add the Morgan Keegan office support we're actually up 6% headcount.
And we're adding new people and account openings.
We are -- as we're trying to get back to service levels these people are on the new systems so we haven't seen synergies in the ops area.
And it's easy to add to add people in new accounts.
It doesn't take -- I don't have to be too smart to realize that's a good thing when we're getting inflow of new accounts.
And it's going to take us a while in all these areas of our firm to really make sure that we're operating back on a good service-level basis before we're going to adjust anything.
So we're going to see some of those runoffs in technology costs as we get the business the systems converted.
We've got a little bit more to do in the fixed income area.
And same in the ops area we're going to keep levels high until we feel like we can adjust them.
And it's just -- it's going to take a while to get the cost out.
We tried to articulate it.
We probably haven't articulated it well enough.
So we are going to make sure that the transition goes as smoothly as possible and then we're going to drive back our target metrics.
Another example of that is the Morgan Keegan legacy operating system.
It's not as though on February 20 once we converted to Raymond James' system we just unplugged it and settled with the vendor and went away.
We're keeping that system up and running for several quarters to make sure we get customer 10 99 outs accurately to make sure we get customer history over accurately to the Raymond James platform et cetera et cetera.
And so we still got that data in the event something happens here in the next couple of quarters.
So that cost won't technically go away until early fiscal '14.
Research Division</strong> Got it very helpful.
It clearly sounds like you guys are still running a lot of kind of non-core expenses through your core expense base call it.
And I guess it should be helpful to get a little bit better granularity on what they are so we can get a sense of once they go away.
That's what the business sort of looks like.
But I guess when we kind of take a step back I mean I think you guys talked about when you did the deal that the margin for the business overall should be 15-plus percent because that's kind of where you were pre-deal and obviously you expect the deal to be somewhat accretive to the margins.
Assuming revenue base doesn't change just knowing what you know about expenses can we still count on the 15% plus pre-tax margin from you guys? I'd have to go back and look with -- assuming revenues don't change we -- if revenues aren't going to regrow we would clearly adjust our business to optimize what we're doing.
But I think right now we would say that everything we're doing the investments we're making et cetera are to grow revenues not to sit on a flat revenue base.
That's a hard one to answer because we haven't modeled it that way.
And I'll answer your other question on how much other noise is going through.
Remember I said we got $35 million-ish still in synergistic cost to come.
Of that about $12 million is non-comp.
So that's how much it's run through some other expense lines or occupancy expense or Datacom type lines that will go away.
LLC</strong> And then a couple of specific questions on the bank.
Appreciate your comments around the outlook for loan growth and I think it makes sense given what you're seeing with the environment.
But you guys are sitting on a ton of capital both at the bank and the holding company.
You used to kind of post some capital back into the bank to grow the loan portfolio but since you're not going to do that in the current environment should we expect -- what should we expect from you guys from Capital Management I guess? Same old boring selves.
I mean we tend to stay over capitalized as we long-term think we're a growth business and we're not going to -- it's unlikely for us to ever do buybacks when those prices are lower special dividend which we really haven't done unless we think we can't grow the business in the medium- to long-term.
So for short-term kind of things if the business does slow down and we can't deploy capital we'll tend to keep it.
We've got -- probably our first use is to pay down debt when that opportunity comes.
So I always tell investors don't look to us as a balance sheet restructuring ploy.
We still believe we're a long-term growth company and that we will -- we can deploy the capital.
We have determined -- if we ever feel differently then we'll tell people and we'll do something different.
Research Division</strong> Just feels like the bank was a big source of that capital.
So the big user of that capital.
So with that now growing at least in the near term would you consider buying back some of the debt or I guess what else are you going to do with that? We still think we can -- we're looking at still niche acquisitions across the board.
We're very disciplined.
Most deals that have happened we've looked at and stepped away from for various reasons.
We're still looking.
We think we can grow.
We believe that every one of our businesses has room to grow either geographically and/or in some product line.
But we're going to stay disciplined.
And I think the bank is -- if the bank goes into a long-term decline it will -- and it gives us back capital which it can do and we accumulate excess capital we'll look at something different.
Our anticipation right now is that we're in a shorter term loan bank and we believe we could still grow that business and all of our other businesses so.
Next question comes from the line of Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple more on the bank.
First on the NIM guidance.
I think if I recall correctly last quarter we were thinking NIM would be down 10 basis points for the full fiscal year.
Now if I'm hearing you guys correctly if you count this quarter and then for the remainder it sounds like NIM might be down in the 40 basis point-ish range.
And I'm just kind of wondering what happened in those 3 months that you have such a large change in the NIM outlook.
I get it that loan growth isn't as good.
But is there something else that's going on that's at play here? Are you guys getting a lot of high yielding loans that are paying off or what other variables are really driving the decline in NIM? Chris the repricing of credits are pretty widespread in the portfolio which is causing in some cases for us to accept that and in some cases we're accepting payoffs in exiting or reducing levels in certain credits.
So once again yes it's very widespread really across all of the commercial loan categories.
So I would say that a large portion of our portfolio is already repriced and in some cases multiple times over the last couple of years.
So we think that the pace by which that we're going to continue to see that is going to decline.
But I do expect some more of that to continue and that's why I was guiding down further for the next couple of quarters.
My recollection is we gave guidance of 3.4% to 3.5% for the year.
Isn't that right Steve? And we're at an adjusted NIM for this quarter of 3.49% and we exceeded it in the first quarter but there was some large fees and things like that that we took into earnings that particular quarter.
So I think that the guidance for the year probably is -- it should still probably be in that range unless -- on the adjusted basis taking out the -- stripping out the excess cash which is depressed in the margin as I mentioned earlier.
The adjusted amount we were down 18 basis points compared to the December quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
I guess I was looking at it on an unadjusted basis.
You heard me earlier on that having all that excess cash helps earnings helps ROE because there's no capital requirement associated with it and there is a positive spread.
The only thing it depresses is our net interest margin.
We don't really want that cash but we do want to provide the service to our clients to give them FDIC insurance on their bank's weak program.
Chris I'd also mention I know we're providing you point in time in the period loan balances that -- our average loan balance for the March quarter was actually $325 million higher than the December quarter.
Yes just to provide that additional color.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay guys that's definitely helpful.
The bank how do you guys think about growth.
I really got to commend you guys for not wanting to chase bad product or make loans that really are uneconomic or don't make sense as far as your credit standards are concerned.
But if we enter into a period where we've got a couple of years of really very lax lending standards are you guys comfortable with just kind of keeping the loans as they are at the bank as far as a no growth scenario or how do you kind of balance the desire to grow versus maintaining your credit standards? We have a strong desire to grow our company but not at the cost of credit standards and it's been very clear to Steve and the bank and the whole firm is that I'd rather have loan balances shrink than start chasing credit.
So we're going to stay disciplined.
We've expanded areas our SBL loans have been growing our Canadian loan portfolio is going we can have some growth in our home mortgage origination where we've seen some success.
But we're not going to chase bad credit.
So the mandate is as the firm we're a growth firm but if the credit -- we're not going to weaken credit standards and if we shrink we shrink.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And last one for me real quick on the Merchant Banking business.
Can you guys remind us how large that portfolio is in terms of assets? And should we assume that you guys will be in kind of this monetization phase considering how strong markets have been and so that the gains in proprietary capital are they likely to be kind of recurring over the next couple of quarters? We've got something around $100 million invested now.
Albion was our biggest piece.
But we've got some we own directly outright some we own through fund formats some are affiliated and some are unaffiliated.
So you can see that in our Q in the level 3 assets section.
Do we really think that if we're going to see gains like this? First of all I'd say I don't necessarily think we're in total liquidation phase.
We are cognizant of the Volcker rule.
Any impact that may have on our ability to grow the business in the format we've been doing it in the past we can continue to do it in a fund format where we manage the assets but aren't a significant owner of the assets.
We do have several that we are still the significant owner of in the portfolio.
I would certainly not model out gains like we've seen.
We may have some going forward but I don't think they'll be of the magnitude that we've seen here with the Albion investment not for some time.
Your next question comes the line of William Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just  coming back to the discussion on the timing of cost savings.
I'm just a little confused by the tone or just the commentary.
Most expectations were to have the full cost savings in by the end of this fiscal year.
Is that still the case or are you suggesting that it slips into fiscal '15? Our target has been to get it done this year and to try to keep next year's earnings clean.
There may be some items that slip over but our target has been to get the savings done so we can start realizing them at the beginning of the fiscal next year.
But there's a lag from when we do all these cost adjustments until they start coming through the P&amp;L.
So we're still on the same guidance we've always given you.
But I can't tell you that some of the stuff won't slip over.
Yes we've got cost savings initiatives planned for some for June and some for the September quarter.
But if you do them in the September quarter as Paul points out you won't really see the benefit of it until the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Next question is when you look at your Capital Markets pre-tax margins that has been coming down pretty steadily and I appreciate the seasonal nature between the fourth quarter calendar fourth quarter to calendar first quarter but more structurally at what point do you take a look at the margin of that business and have to right size for what appears to be a weaker revenue backdrop? We've been pretty clear in the last couple of calls that we are looking and we will make some changes in that business.
A part of it is headcount and part of it is just comp and payouts.
Some of it is elevated by the integration and retention payments.
Some of it in transitional deals as we try to get 2 businesses together.
And some of it is headcount related.
So it's not the massive numbers we went through in technology.
But there will be some trimming and there will be some comp adjustments.
And so again our goal is to focus through this fiscal -- the rest of this fiscal year to get that done.
So we do acknowledge that they're elevated.
With respect to equity Capital Markets those aren't part of the synergy cost we've got in here.
That's just pure right-sizing.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that would be on top of the planned integration savings is that correct? Right but fixed income is part of the continued integration.
We balance here.
We have not been a big -- the markets get good hire like crazy to participate and then when markets slow down it's cut to the bone and wait out.
So we've been more middle.
Bull markets we don't chase them and the down markets we trim and we will trim.
But we don't cut to the bone and then start chasing an up market again.
So but we're running elevated on any standard and we know that and we will address it.
We are addressing it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just a back up for me when you look at the bank discussion for a moment.
Can you tell me what the duration of the bank is today versus the end of the year? Versus the end of the fiscal year? Research Division</strong> Right.
The duration of all of our assets? Research Division</strong> Right on the asset side right.
About the same.
Research Division</strong> And have you quantified that and it probably appears around 2 2.5 years are you assuming the same ballpark? No well it's shorter than that.
I don't have a good number for you on that.
I'd be glad to follow up with you.
I mean just looking at all of our asset classes...
We don't have the GAAP report in front of us but we can do that and let you know Bill.
Research Division</strong> And then just a final one.
You mentioned in terms of you're seeing a pickup in the size of the better mix if you will of sort of the FA growth versus what's it riding.
When you look across the business a lot of your peers talk about the competitive nature and the markets being what they are.
How do you think about the upfront costs and return on investment in terms of timeframe to get your return? I mean changing economics if you will.
Yes we are we have not -- we just don't compete head up in front money and the transition of systems that we have competitors especially the bigger ones that pay out twice as much as we do.
And we -- our sales point is coming to our culture which is high service FA focused no product push.
And if you can get less money up front your payout is going to be better over time and you can earn it but you got to earn it over time.
And we want you to join to be with us not for a check and that's -- we've been in that position as being lower than our most of our competitors for a long time and we continue to do that.
We're not buying business for dollars.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Wong with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> So what have you seen in Europe that caused the impairment and restructuring charge this quarter? We just -- if you think that people talk about the commission market versus research being challenged here as we've had declining over the desk commissions because of ETFs and electronic trading.
The European market has been tougher and it has been for a while not only our volume is down.
Pricing is tough and we've just decided to kind of -- we've had a long-term partnership there and we just felt it was time to restructure.
We have a great leader there who's been with us a long time and running the U.S.
equity side and we wanted to get the European equity side under him fully too.
So we bought out the minority interest in that -- in one of that deal and we're downsizing our number of salespeople and analysts to fit the market.
So we just because it wasn't fully controlled it was a little harder so we just bought full control and we're making the adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there was no big change in the market.
It was just decided to take that charge this quarter off of trends that have been going on for a while? Yes.
We've been looking at that and it was obvious to us that the market in the short term wasn't going to turn.
We have good people so we went ahead and just bought out the remaining shareholders took control of resizing the business to where we think it should be.
We just -- we've been watching it really for 2 years now and just went ahead and bit the bullet.
Research Division</strong> And just a bit curious about how this is the third quarter in a row that margin balances have declined.
I just assumed that they would grow with the market [indiscernible] client assets and sentiment is not terrible.
So if you could just comment a little bit on that that would be great.
Go ahead Jeff.
The only we obviously -- I mean we don't counsel our clients to take a lot of leverage here.
Our margin balances for FA are probably very low compared to the Street in general.
The only new development there has been that a lot of the new --  the leverage based on your securities portfolio has been going to the bank in the form of securities-based lending which we've had for about a year at the bank which has grown to over $400 million.
So in fairness you almost have to look at those 2 in unison.
They don't necessarily I wouldn't say it's cannibalized existing business to a great extent but certainly the new business they're considering which is most appropriate between the bank line versus the broker-dealer line.
And especially for new advisers as we recruited and higher- and higher-end advisers with the wealthier client they choose the securities based lending usually because they use it as a financing vehicle not really just as a stock repurchase vehicle.
And your final question comes from the line of Justine Mario with Lord Abbot.
Just to beat the horse on the NIM.
I would appreciate some color and sorry if I missed it about NII versus NIM.
Just given the fixation on NIM as a percent I know I'm sure it drives you guys crazy too.
But any kind of directional commentary on NII would be appreciated because it sounds like most of the stuff you're talking about really is kind of OpEx on NIM as a percentage maybe not as much NII in dollars other than to the point about loans you're not going to be out chasing them.
But would you expect much degradation there? If loans run flat and NII stays where it is we'll be flat.
But that's a math exercise.
It's a matter of whether we're be able to maintain loan balances or whether they actually decline.
If loan balances decline then NIM stays the same.
We'll have a degradation in NII.
And if they both occur the decline in loans and the decline in net interest margin then it will be even more severe.
But yes we don't foresee a significant decline from the current levels at least I don't.
And see a significant decline from the current levels in net interest income at the bank.
I think there might be a slight contraction of NIM from here.
We're still guiding like we said 3 40 to 3 50 for the year.
And I think that loans will probably be -- my guess is it will be flattish for the rest of the year given the current environment that we're seeing.
We had 2 days less interest in the March quarter compared to the December quarter which impacted the net interest income significantly nearly $2 million worth.
Research Division</strong> Jeff to a point though I mean NII is what determines earnings not NIM.
And the variables you're talking about in terms of not growing loans and obviously some stuff prepaying or whatever is really OpEx and NIM unless you're saying that we're seeing massive downward repricings on stuff or retaining which it doesn't sound like.
I mean obviously there's rate pressure in the world but it doesn't seem like that's the case with you guys.
Is that fair? Well a lot of that has already been reflected in the numbers but I do think that we're going to continue to have reductions in NIM and our balances will like Jeff said will be flat to maybe slightly down on an average basis the next couple of quarters.
So there will be some...
Some impact but I don't think it will be material based on the current levels.
And there are other factors in the bank that are equally important like the provision.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well I'd like to thank you all for joining the call.
I know that with the integration the numbers are difficult as you guys try to figure out when the costs are coming out I actually think outside of the M&amp;A number the revenue numbers and our businesses weren't bad.
I think we've got tailwinds in the business.
Given a good equity capital markets I think the earnings power is here.
We just got to get the cost out.
We're focused on it.
I know and we're going to do it when we believe we will get to our targets.
But again we're focused first on making sure our business is operating well.
That people are settled in that the systems processes and support are working.
And then we are attacking the costs which we've started to do.
So I know it's hard for you all to predict the timing.
So I think a lot of this is timing versus the ultimate goal.
But thank you for joining us and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning.
My name is Jodie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Raymond James quarterly analyst call.
[Operator Instructions] To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and any other similar matters a variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and these experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K which is available on raymondjames.com and sec.gov.
In addition to these factors in connection with the Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance: difficulty integrating Raymond James' and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transaction; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; changes in the capital markets; and diversion of management time on integration-related issues.
To the extent Raymond James discusses non-GAAP results a reconciliation to GAAP is available on raymondjames.com in the earnings release issued yesterday.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Paul Reilly Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jodie and good morning everyone.
And now that you know we can't foresee the future by the disclaimer I'd like to kind of get into the numbers in the quarter.
First I want to kind of give a big picture.
We're very pleased to where we stand today in terms of our market position and what we've accomplished over this last year in the Morgan Keegan integration and we've had a very successful integration retention number's been very good.
We've just come off our conferences for our Private Client Group.
Both our employee and independent groups and I'd say the mood is very very good.
They're very happy with the firm and where we stand our technology as we continue to roll it out.
And I believe we're well positioned in all of our segments.
Certainly our -- despite market headwinds our fixed income business is really a premier business now.
All of our segments I think are showing good growth.
And if we look over the 9 months for the first 9 months of this year versus 9 months of last year we're up 23% in net revenue 10% -- 17% in net income and 10% in GAAP and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share.
20% in GAAP -- I'm sorry -- and -- we had 10% I'm sorry in our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share due to number of shares issued.
So if you look at the overall performance over the last year and where we stand I feel very very good about it.
And I also recognize and I'm looking at the numbers there's a lot of noise still coming through the Morgan Keegan integration both in our cost lines as we finish up with the integration as we continued over this quarter to kind of size our business from that integration and also through numbers moving through different classifications of how Morgan Keegan kind of accounted for things and how Raymond James does.
So hopefully we can move through each of those but today give you some more visibility.
And I think we had a decent quarter in most all of our segments except hopefully which was an anomalous fixed income trading loss which I'll cover a little bit.
But I think if we go segment by segment I think the performance is pretty good.
If you look at overall for the quarter our revenues were $1.1 billion.
We're up 2% over a year ago and it -- we're down 3% from last quarter.
But again you have to remember the Albion transaction that if you took that out which was kind of a one-time event we were up 2% to 3% really in revenue and even taking the Albion -- leaving the Albion transaction where it was 5% in our earnings.
So I think we've had -- we had a reasonable quarter there.
And if we go through segment by segment we can give you a little color.
On the assets under administration you noticed there was $1 billion kind of drop given the Dow probably looks a little unusual.
But there are 2 factors that impacted that: One is the Canadian currency revaluation from 99 to 96 had a $1 billion-ish kind of impact and also some of the fixed income valuations given the interest rate changes in the markets had an impact on that number.
I think what probably is more in line and more of an indicator of our business going forward if you look like Assets Under Management was up to a record $52 billion.
And more importantly if you look at the Private Client Group billable accounts going into the quarter they're really up about 3.5% composed of a couple of elements.
One a 2% increase on the Assets Under Management an extra billing day coming in to this quarter.
And actually if you look at billings of movement from fixed income into equities that's going to increase that billing base.
Also if you look at the revenue in the Private Client Group there are some changes and kind of from the Morgan Keegan numbers we're up 2% for the quarter.
But in Morgan Keegan they really did not have a fixed income segment.
And some of the income in Private -- in Asset Management Segment I'm sorry.
And what we call Asset Management at Raymond James was really reported in Private Client Group.
That impact of what we pulled out of Private Client Group and moved to Asset Management in our reporting was about $10 million a year or $2.5 million for the quarter.
So the Private Client Group number on an apples-to-apples basis had we not gone through the reclass it would have been a little higher and the Asset Management growth really a little lower.
But I think that both numbers are continuing to grow and we still have very very good results for Asset Management.
Sticking with the Private Client Group.
We also expect the margins to continue improve in Private Client Group.
We'll go through some of the comp ratio kind of adjustments -- Jeff will a little bit later in the quarter.
And our technology expenses continue to be raised as we finish off projects this quarter and this next quarter in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year that I would say that got deferred because we were working on the integration as we finish them up.
And we expect that technology expense to decline over the next couple of quarters and get back into a run rate which we had planned to go on before the integration.
Asset Management continued to perform well both from the market revaluations and good net inflows both from outside and from Morgan Keegan advisers who continue to move $160 million $180 million of assets a month into our Asset Management system and again a good sign that the integration has been going very well.
The Capital Markets is probably the one that probably has disappointed some people but it's really a kind of a 2-end tail.
Our Equity Capital Markets had a good quarter coming off a weak quarter but both improvement in underwritings and M&amp;A transactions.
And we right now would expect although it's always hard to predict the Capital Markets going forward is to keep at those levels in Equity Capital Markets over the next quarters if we had to guess.
Backlog is good.
Who knows what happens to the market every quarter there? August tends to be a seasonal month in that business and September a positive month.
But if you -- if we look going forward we think the performance in Equity Capital Markets should continue.
The big surprise was fixed income and it was a surprise although we had warned that trading profits were down.
If we look at really the month of June we had some almost record movements in the municipal market.
If you look at the MMD rates the 10- and 30-year had the second highest 1-week movement since -- second only and almost the same as October of 2008.
Despite our inventories being down because of concern of the market we hit a trading loss and we typically don't have many trading losses and hopefully it won't.
This month is moving -- has moved back to the positive but I think we had that unusual event in a very highly volatile and unusual month.
Not that we continue to believe that rates over the medium to long-term are going to continue to rise and are managing for that.
But we had expect the fixed income business to return to kind of the March quarter not the quarter of -- when we acquired Morgan Keegan the fixed income market remains challenged versus when we acquired Morgan Keegan.
But certainly we believe this month and the volatility was unusual.
Also the comp ratio was driven partially by a much higher comp ratio in fixed income.
Trading profits disproportionately help us in terms of the bottom line and fixed income and when they're negative disproportionately cost us to the bottom line.
Also that is one business with the acquisition that between the RSUs and a number of guarantees that run through April in our 2-year deal with the acquisition as revenue go down it has a leverage affect that raised the comp ratio.
So that did have an impact to the overall comp ratio in the business.
RJ Bank.
The good news is despite our warnings and that we thought it would be difficult to grow loan we grew loan.
And I think we've had good momentum on loan growth which is good news for future earnings.
With that comes a lot of things.
But first when you grow loans the month you grow them and you get a charge for the reserve so you see some impact on that as we grew loans late in the quarter.
We also had a lot of things going on in the quarter in the bank and we'll give Steve a chance to address them.
We had the SNC exam which we talked about in the release.
We had a lot of payoff of credit.
So when a credit pays off a loan pays off you release the reserve and you could see the impact of those -- the payoffs and some upgrades that have -- that gave us a credit this year.
The challenge also is spreads have come in on loans.
But as the loan balances have grown we feel pretty good for the quarter.
There's also a lot of items that have impacted the bank this quarter.
Again the rise in rates in June impacted our SBA loans.
We had about a $2.7 million mark that we think will mostly reverse.
We had from our Canadian loans again the movement although we hedge a lot of our loans in our finance company in Canada.
The ones that are written in the bank are unhedged and that was about a $2 million translation mark there.
So a lot of numbers again moving in the bank.
But I think overall the bank has performed very very well.
So with that that's kind of the overview.
I'll have Jeff give you some of the details.
We'll have Steve address with some of the bank then we really want to -- I know you'll have a lot of questions this quarter.
So Jeff? Thank you Paul.
Let me go -- kind of go back to the beginning and just kind of fill in a little bit some things that I had made notes of it that Paul mentioned most of them.
But in PCG there are a couple of things that you can't really tell very easily in there.
I mean average gross headcount was up just a little bit in terms of FAs but average gross actually made a little bit of progress in all of our units which is encouraging.
We do disclose margin balances in the release.
One thing that's not evident when you look at that is that we have a -- kind of a companion-type product in security-based loans in our bank which has hit an all-time high of $500 million about $200 million of which were acquired from Regions as part of the Morgan Keegan transaction.
So there's actually been $300 million of growth in that product line as well which is again sort of a similar product to margin but for different purposes not for trading purposes.
We do look at overall asset mix.
As Paul noted in Asset Management there was a slight shift to equities and -- as there was in our total client base.
Nothing very meaningful but a slight shift and it may be people investing some more in equities.
It may also be somewhat the devaluation of all things fixed income-related such as REIT preferreds and other things that took a devaluation in the quarter with the interest rate jump.
So lastly when you look at pre-tax income in Private Client Group making a $4 million improvement over the preceding quarter there are really 4 things that impacted that.
There was obviously an increase in commissions and the margin earned on those.
There was still this elevated IT effort which sort of offset that which we expect to moderate going forward from here.
The other there was a couple million dollar benefit in administrative expense.
If you remember we had a fairly significant rift [ph] in early April in technology and that was in our system of accounting the technology and ops all roll into the Private Client Group segment.
So that was evident there and then there was about a couple million dollar increase in fees from mutual funds really based on increased asset values as we get the asset-based fees from the various fund groups.
That was sort of the story in Private Client Group.
I think Paul talked pretty -- in pretty much detail about Capital Markets.
The only thing I would add is that there's a third player in that segment that actually had a pretty good quarter which is our Tax Credit Funds operation which you can see more detail on when you get our Q.
But they actually had a very good quarter relative to last quarter.
Our pretax is up several million dollars from the preceding quarter.
So that also aided Capital Market's margin for the quarter.
I'll let -- I have some bank notes but I'll let Steve talk about that in just a second.
A couple of overall comments.
The tax rate was a little lower than the previous quarter.
We were recognized some tax credits this quarter that we didn't think we were going to get because we're -- it's a program we thought we were shut out of because it was oversubscribed.
But turned out they had room for us.
It's a Florida school credit program.
So we ended up -- did get in that program and that's in the -- so we had to recognize that in the quarter.
The other thing we had in the quarter to a greater degree than usual the dividend received deduction is we had some big dividends from the private equity investments particularly Albion in the prior quarter.
A new item this quarter in the release you can see we added the -- a couple of the holding company capital ratios.
They're still preliminary in terms of the holding company.
We think they'll be very close or we wouldn't have put them in there.
It was just to give you a feel for what the overall capital strength of the company is and we'll be doing that going forward.
The comp ratio I'd say partly largely because of the fixed income dynamics where we have a lot of fixed comp not enough related to variability particularly even in the management ranks and the retention [ph] ranks and some of the high producers et cetera where we have guaranteed deals for -- as part of the acquisition are causing a very disproportionate comp ratio there for the current period.
So we really didn't make any progress.
Even when you adjust for the private equity revenues last quarter we really didn't make much progress.
I'm frequently asked "What is really the longer-term targets here?" And when we look at what we would call a normalized-type environment without interest rates just in this environment in terms of rightsizing all the businesses et cetera which we're substantially through now we still have a little bit more to go.
I'll talk about that in a second.
We're just in the process now of putting together our -- starting to put together our 2014 budgets.
But when we look at the target margins per business like we talked about at Analyst Day recently and we roll them all together and look at the comp ratios in each of those businesses when they achieve those targets et cetera.
If you look at it overall we still do think there's a 15% pretax margin on a total-firm basis achievable which by math equates to about a 12% ROE in this environment without the interest rate help.
And if you look at the comp ratio in that environment it's about 66.5%.
So those I guess we would call those our targets for next year.
Obviously there's a lot of market assumptions and other things that would come into play to achieve all of that but that's kind of still our 2014 targets.
With respect to the integration synergies we actually now achieved not only all but even a little more than all than we thought we would.
The problem isn't the lack of recognizing synergies it's that right now for this quarter at least one of the core underlying businesses we purchased just hasn't been performing given the market environment in fixed income.
So that's really been the issue there.
We still have a little bit more synergy to come some real estate consolidations and things like that but we're substantially through that process.
We probably still will have a little bit more in terms of one-time charges here in the September quarter.
We had a little bit more of that in the June quarter than we thought we would because we got a little more aggressive particularly in the Capital Markets areas than we had originally planned given the environment.
So that number where I said probably would be $5 million to $10 million in the June quarter actually ended up being $13 million in the June quarter.
And now I'll say again it will probably be a couple of million dollars in the September quarter as well.
So with that let me let Steve talk briefly about the bank and I'm going to leave time for questions.
Sure.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everybody.
Just to elaborate a little bit on some of the comments that Paul and Jeff have already provided we were able to grow loans not only in the quarter across all categories.
Our securities-based lending business as Paul mentioned and Jeff mentioned has grown to over $500 million now.
Our corporate lending business grew as of June compared to March by $68 million.
Our mortgage -- residential mortgage business grew and our SBA loans grew also.
The provision expense associated with that loan growth was relatively nominal because some of these categories are very low-risk -- low-risk items that don't require a lot of reserves.
We talked a little bit about the margin.
We had an 8-basis-point compression in margin in the June quarter.
We've seen that trend continue.
But it is -- the margin compression is starting to slow a little bit relative to the prior few quarters.
We do expect continued pressure on margins but we are starting to see some of that subside in some of our businesses.
A little bit more information on our provision expense as Paul mentioned and you see -- saw in the release we had about a $2 million credit for the quarter.
And despite the impact of the Shared National Credit exam there were 9 loans that were downgraded as part of the exam and 2 loans that were upgraded as part of the exam.
Then that impact of that was a $5.6 million provision expense.
Despite that and the nominal loan growth that I just mentioned we had some significant loans that had large reserves against them that we had a part payoff of a loan that was on nonaccrual that had a lot of reserves against it.
We also had another loan that was upgraded to accrual status in the quarter that had a lot of reserves against it as well.
So the net effect of some loans that had a lot of reserves against them we had some improvements both payoffs and upgrades.
So netting all that out led to the $2 million credit in provision expense for the quarter.
Paul mentioned some of the larger figures in our Other Income number for the quarter.
This is the first time at least in recent history that our Other Income was actually a negative number.
But Paul kind of elaborated on some of that already the foreign exchange for currency and the mark on the SBA loans that were impacted by the rise in rates.
I'll just add one more thing here before we open it up and that's in the Proprietary Capital section.
It was still a -- once again it was a pretty significant contributor to the results.
This June quarter every year is the quarter we get audited results on all of the external investments that we're in as well as some of the ones that we sponsor.
And when we -- there were a whole host of relatively small $1 million to $2 million-type marks.
Some of which we don't own 100% of of course which is why you see the increase in noncontrolling interest related to that.
But this was a very active quarter.
Didn't match the Albion results of last quarter but it was certainly still a significant contributor again to the results including some of the private equity holdings that we acquired in the Morgan Keegan transaction which came to resolution.
So we were happy to have that little added bonus for the quarter.
And one last comment I'll open for questions.
The other thing you need to recognize is we continue to still operate pretty heavy operational support through the integration that our headcount pre-Morgan Keegan acquisition for Raymond James and Morgan Keegan is actually higher than when we -- where we were when we both started.
And we're going to keep that support levels elevated as our new advisers are getting used to new systems.
Our support staff from Morgan Keegan are very good in understanding securities transactions.
Our systems are also new to them and there's a learning curve.
And through that learning curve we'll keep support levels high.
Again our focus has been on retention.
And over time we'll be able to address that.
But that has been also an area that will keep -- that has kept some of our costs elevated through this year.
And that's a much more involved process I think than people realize.
It's not just looking up client accounts on your PC.
I mean it has a lot to do with a lot of financial planning software and a lot of other instruments and programs that we have here at the firm that -- there's a lot longer learning curve than just account inquiry.
And so I think as our hope and I think as our early results have shown is that those advisers are moving assets to our Asset Management platform.
As they learn our software we believe it will help productivity climb.
But again that's not overnight as we said during the acquisition -- pre-acquisition.
That's a 1- to 2-year kind of time frame.
We're pleased with the results and we have more to go and we're focused on it.
So with that we'll go ahead and open up to questions.
Jodie? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Hugh Miller from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I guess I start with a couple of questions for Steve at the commercial bank.
Obviously it seems like there was a little bit of a change with the loan portfolio growth in the quarter.
I think in the press release you guys still mentioned that competition is intense.
So we've been hearing from several commercial banks that a lot of that cut-throat loan pricing competition has kind of subsided towards the latter part of the quarter with a shift in the yield curve.
Can you just give us a sense of what you're seeing there in your outlook for -- now going forward for the potential for growth in the loan portfolio? Yes Hugh that's a good point.
I would say in early May when rates started ticking up that really led to some of the institutional investors with other options and we saw some improvement in the loan market.
We've actually seen some pushback from the banks against companies on some of the repricings that are going on.
Some of that's still going on on the better credits.
But once again as I mentioned we're seeing that trend at least subside for the most part at this point.
It's still a lot of competition a lot of money chasing too few deals.
But I would say that we have seen some improvement over the last 2 to 3 months in that regard.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean and is your outlook now for the potential for continued growth -- I mean it looks like just in the month of June the portfolio expanded by 3%.
Are you guys anticipating that you'll continue to see some measure of growth in the loan portfolio? I think so.
I think it will be nominal though.
Yes we're growing asset to kind of in all categories.
Our mortgage business it's gotten to be quite a bit bigger or it's being impacted.
Our pipeline over the last 60 days with the rates ticking up is a little bit lower.
We've seen a big shift to purchase market versus refinances obviously given the -- more confidence in the marketplace in the real estate market.
And most folks that have refinanced have already done so or that could refinance have done so.
On the corporate side obviously that's a bigger business.
We're now a little over $6.5 billion in loan outstandings.
That that's obviously our biggest business.
Continued challenges but I do think we can nominally grow over the next few quarters given the current market conditions.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And is there a...
I'm sorry.
That may come at the -- I think there will still be pressure on the margin that we probably will -- we've been guiding people down to the 325- 330-type level.
We obviously aren't there yet and -- but the older ones that are refinancing or paying off or maturing.
Even with this backup in pricing that we've seen lately we're still not back to the levels that...
No not at all.
Of the current portfolio.
So we're still going to see some compression I think in the net interest margin.
But hopefully some loan growth so we can keep net interest earnings about flat.
LLC</strong> Okay interesting commentary there.
And yes can you also then on the credit side -- I know that you took the provision reversal but can you talk about the uptick that we saw in the criticized loans quarter-over-quarter? Was that just all from those and I guess those 9 loans that you mentioned from the SNC exam that were downgraded or what's the...
Not exclusively but that was the vast majority to -- once again the criticized loans also include even more harshly rated loans loans that are by regulatory definition classified in worse.
Those have even higher reserves.
We actually had a reduction in our worse-rated or higher-rated credits for the quarter which contributed significantly to the credit for the quarter in the provision expense line.
So -- but the bulk of that increase in criticized loans was attributable to the downgrade to the Shared National Credit exam.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess in the retail segment it seems like we finally had a month of year-over-year growth in equity trading volumes.
And I was wondering -- I know you guys obviously have a large exposure to fee-based businesses but for some of the transactional-based PCG accounts did you guys see any improvement in the month of June for commission levels there? I wouldn't say noticeable.
I wouldn't say it was noticeable for the month but we typically aren't the leading indicator on those so...
LLC</strong> Sure sure.
And I understand that.
And then last question for me was in the Investor Day you guys kind of commented I believe that with the period of low volatility that we were in was kind of weighing on some of the negative convexity products that you have within the fixed income Capital Markets Group and that a shift in rates could be a benefit for that segment.
How is that kind of playing out now with what we're seeing at least in your expectations there? Yes.
I think that the uncertainty we don't expect any short-term pickup in the fixed income business.
But we think that -- and hopefully the trading profit thing was unusual.
But in terms of commission levels I don't -- we don't expect a short-term improvement.
Our -- we -- a big part of our fixed income franchise is the financial institution franchise and we don't see a big uplift in the short term yet.
But longer term though I think that the steepening of the yield curve will definitely help the commission business in fixed income when people are -- believe rates are where they're going to be for the time being and willing to put some ladders in place and other things.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate your extra color on I guess the expenses and it sounds like you guys continue to run with still fairly elevated level of support.
I understand it might be difficult but any way to size this for us and I know you said that it's still going to be probably a few quarters until you start to phase some of that support level out.
But I think it'd just be helpful to understand the magnitude of the drag [ph] this to still create [ph] on the earning stream? Well I think the technology is certainly running much higher.
I think you'll see an improvement in that over the next few quarters.
In terms of the operational support it will remain elevated for a period of time yet.
And what will be the indicator for us is just call volume in the call centers.
As long as people have issues and are learning the systems we'll continue to stay elevated.
And as that comes down and we're also going through a number of technology projects to streamline our interfaces between the branch and home office.
As those come online I think we'll be able to get those more in line.
But I think those will stay higher through this coming year on the operational support side where I think you'll see the technology cost come down some in the next quarter -- next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then when we look at the PCG business and with the Morgan Keegan transaction obviously things have moved around a little bit for you guys relative to the sensitivity you get to the equity market versus fixed income market.
So going forward as you think about the growth in the business can you help us understand I guess how sensitive the revenue stream there is to potential further declines in the fixed income markets.
I know you've in the past provided kind of ballpark numbers of how much of the revenue stream there is fee-based versus more transaction-based.
But any way to tease that out to get a sense specifically for the fixed income performance? That's kind of a hard one because they move in different ways.
I mean movements from fixed income into equities helps our PCG business if there's good equity markets.
And I think actually the interest rate and the yield curve and rates are actually going to impact our fixed income business itself.
So it depends where they move and how and actually how volatile they are.
So it's kind of hard.
If you look at our overall business about 45% of it is now exposed to the equity markets and the rest are exposed to other interest rate or trading or the bank.
And -- but they move in different pieces.
Obviously the big one is short-term interest rates for us which haven't moved.
The longer-term rates moving up as long as they're not too volatile are positive I think for some of our other businesses.
But if they're lumpy we have exposure in the fixed income side.
And that's a point we're trying to make to people.
People say "Well look at these results " and say "Why aren't you doing better? It's been a great margin." Well it's been a good Dow but it's not been obviously a good fixed income market.
It's not been a very good bank lending market.
It's been a very competitive bank lending market.
So the equity market isn't the only arena we play in and we used to be much more exposed and correlated to the equity markets than we are now.
We're much more diversified.
So we're really -- one of our 3 major markets has performed well this past couple of quarters only.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last one for me Steve maybe you can comment a little more on the securities-based lending.
It sounds like it could be a pretty substantial opportunity for you guys.
Any way we could try to measure that the loans relative to the client asset base? Because it does seem like the loan growth dynamic remains challenging for the market.
This is a little bit of a -- sort of interesting dramatic [ph] lever you could pull and then maybe you can comment on the yields you're guys getting on those loans.
Yes.
Alex it is a growth initiative for us.
This is very much of a joint effort with the bank and Private Client Group not only to grow loans but it's a way to help grow assets as well as we're transitioning Financial Advisers from other institutions.
Almost all of them have a clients that have loans in other institutions and we transition them over.
Big focus for us is to continue the marketing and support of that business.
We are adding something in the neighborhood of $25 million to $30 million a month in loan outstandings from that team.
And the margin right now in that business is right at 300 basis points.
So it actually is a kind of a negative relative to our overall margin.
But it's a very low-risk business which we've got a nice system and technology and process in place to make sure that the collateral monitoring relative to the loan position is intact.
So want to see that continue to grow and we want to grow margin balances as well so...
The big issue on the SBL loans is that the assets that come over with the loans are multiples of the loan amount.
So it's kind of a strategic initiative for us as well as a low -- we think a low-risk lending because of the security -- securitization of the loans.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I apologize for missing it.
But could you repeat the sort of outlook you gave for the 2014 pretax margins and as well as the comp ratio? Yes.
It's the same ones that we presented at Analyst Day by business: 9% at Private Client Group 15% Capital Markets 30% in Asset Management and the bank with a net interest it's really more of a net interest margin than it is pretax margin at the bank.
That's relevant but when you roll those businesses together if that's what our 2014 budget shows which we haven't put together yet that would equate to something about a 15% consolidated pretax margin for the company which equates to about a 12% ROE and encompassed in that if again all the forecasts prove to be correct this is where the forward-looking disclaimer comes into play.
The comp ratio would be something around 66.5%.
And I think as Jeff talked about targets I think those are things that will -- we're shooting for and transitioning to.
It doesn't happen on October 1 so they don't move that quickly.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then in terms of -- you made some comments I guess that the trading losses sort of have started to reverse themselves and can kind of go back to the March quarter.
But -- I mean what are sort of the prospects and potentially the timing for these profits to return to sort of the levels we saw post the Morgan Keegan deal? Well with interest rate cycles that could be a while.
When we were making $5 million to $6 million a month I think at the Morgan Keegan time of the acquisition of the fixed income group and enjoyed for a couple of quarters we're seeing pre this quarter about half of that level.
And in the commission levels just because the market commission level is down 20%.
And I think that that's the return until there's some big movement in the market either in trading activity which will drive the commissions which I think it's going to be some change in the yield curve or movements in rate or volatility.
You're not going to see -- that's why I'm saying short term.
If you look for the next quarter I would expect it to move back.
You're going to have to see some fundamental changes in the market for that activity to go up which would mean rates are starting to move and volatility is starting to -- directional volatility -- volatility but in a direction over time.
I think it's when you see that business pick back up.
So I would say for the short term we don't expect that.
Longer term as rates move I think that business will start getting more active.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just -- I mean lastly for me.
In terms of the bank I appreciate the comments that you're starting to see some slowing of margin compression and you're starting to see some loan growth.
But I think prior to that you had sort of mentioned that you felt you guys could offset any kind sort of flat growth in the bank with improved credit quality.
Is there any prospect that we can see barring some kind of significant increase in the loans -- the size of the loan portfolio that the bank earnings could pick up in the near term? There's no big macro thing that would say you're going to see a big pickup.
I mean the -- what we said before is that we had capacity that we would look at better credits -- at better credits of lower margins.
So -- but we wouldn't go down.
We wouldn't go after higher yields lesser credit loans.
And that's still our strategy.
So I don't see any impetus to say that there's something that -- between loan growth there's spreads reversing in the short term that would show any growth in the short term.
That's a business that doesn't really have a lot of room for positive -- big positive surprises.
A negative provision expense is about as exciting as it's going to get.
You may get some currency blip here and there but then again we don't have that much in Canadian loans outstanding anymore on the bank's books.
So there's not a lot of room for surprises other than in the credit area which hopefully we can continue to control well.
Or if they move the capital ratios way up on the big banks [ph] we might have a bigger opportunity.
So -- but I think short term we're kind of -- we don't see a lot of opportunity there.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Allen from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> In the release you mentioned a headcount reduction in Capital Markets through the end of June.
I wonder if you could provide some color on that in terms of what areas that was in and just the magnitude of the severance charge related to that? I don't want to really talk too much about headcount there but it was both in fixed income and Equity Capital Markets where we've looked at reducing both because of the integration.
During the integration we ran heavy hoping the market would allow us to retain more people.
And I think in both those businesses that the market wasn't significantly better than when we acquired the firm.
So we've just been more aggressive on getting those reductions in.
So I don't know...
But all in Capital Markets at the end of June.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it got it.
And then earlier you talked about maintaining extra levels of support until the improvement in terms of the calls into the tech center and things like that from your FAs.
I mean have you seen progress on that front since the integration was closed? Can you give us kind of -- an update there in terms of how it's progressed maybe on a monthly basis broadly speaking? And given the current pace what the time frame you're looking at? Yes.
I would say first it's been very good.
The first was the conversion which scared us to death.
I mean and it would scare anyone to death even if you think it's going well.
But the day after the conversion everything was -- every account was in balance which amazed us.
Call centers were very elevated even though we had people in the branches at that point we don't now actually helping them.
Those call volumes came down in a matter of days which we were actually surprised.
And for a lot of those were basic "How do I open this? How do I do that?" We're into more of the sophisticated using is "How do I do this planning thing? And how do I get this -- how do I generate this kind of report? How do I -- I've got this issue and kind of account who do I talk to?" People that have been here know all of that and they know who to go to and talk to.
The people who are new at Morgan Keegan the people they used to call in Memphis are -- the systems are new to them too.
So if the questions are fairly complex they need to get help.
That is working its way through but it's going to take some time.
So we'll have some nominal cost reductions even in this quarter as we've looked at kind of some structural changes in the operational support.
But my guess is that's going to stay elevated through the first half of next year as we just want to make sure the support levels are there.
And we're just -- we're going to be slow to reduce support unless those levels are down and -- the questions that we get now are pretty sophisticated and we just got to get people used to the systems and get our new support people who are very good used to our systems too.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one question on the P&amp;L.
The Other Expense line and I'm not sure if you mentioned this.
But last quarter it had I think it was a $7 million goodwill impairment.
It still remained fairly elevated this quarter.
I'm just wondering although down a little bit sequentially is there any impairments or anything like that that's keeping that up right now? This year was predominantly legal.
We had some legal -- favorable legal activity settlements et cetera last quarter on client matters.
This quarter we've had some additional provisions.
And just like in the bank we try to get ahead of those pretty much in terms of reserving for cases when complaints are filed and actual arbitrations are filed.
So that had to do with predominantly legal activity.
But the magnitude of it was more of a credit last quarter.
And an addition this quarter not any massive additions to reserves.
You're just seeing the swing was big.
Your next question comes from the line of Douglas Sipkin from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up with a couple of things.
First off I know -- I don't know if you guys touched on it.
But any sort of improving signs in the advisory market the M&amp;A market? I know that's become a little bit of a bigger piece of the Capital Markets framework for you guys.
I know it's been slow post the end of last year.
So any update there? Yes I'd say it's improving that there are 2 factors to that.
Certainly as we've all talked about in the industry the acceleration in December kind of filled backlog and March was -- the March quarter was slow by everyone's standard.
I think that we're seeing improving activity and I think you're seeing that in competitors' reports too that backlog looks good.
There seems to be more interest.
I think most of us were surprised there wasn't more M&amp;A activity and actually given rates and given market outlooks and growth initiatives.
So as we look at -- as we kind of look forward to the next quarter we think that the activity we received this quarter we should continue.
Again it gets lumpy.
But I think it's -- I think the longer-term outlook should be positive for M&amp;A.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Great and then just a follow-up and without putting words in your guys' mouth at least from my vantage point it sort of seems like we're trying to find some synergies and costs and it continues to sort of be a grinding effort.
And I'm thinking maybe this has to do with the fact that maybe just fixed income has gotten so much tougher for you guys given what's gone on and given the exposure Morgan Keegan has.
I mean is it fair to assume that if fixed income sort of stays at this level the ability for you guys to realize significant synergies this probably needs to be tapered a little bit? Or is it really more of just sort of grinding along with the extra support and things of that magnitude? Because I know we're still sort of trying to wait and figure out when to expect to see some more synergies show up? But obviously [indiscernible] the fixed income [indiscernible] has changed a bit for you guys in the last quarter.
Let me separate the pieces.
The first I want to start is we are very pleased with the fixed income business and the people we have in the integration of the 2 pieces.
It's a very very good business.
Now having said that the market's tough right? So it's kind of hard to beat the market.
And certainly I think this quarter was the result [ph] of a tough market and hopefully again you never -- you're in the business of risk management here so you have to stay on top of it.
But trading losses hopefully are unusual for us.
So I think you'll see some bounce-back on that piece.
But it's still going to be a tough market.
So given when we did the acquisition that segment of the market will be down.
If you look at overall synergies whether it's between fixed income and Capital Markets or PCG these synergies that we've recognized in PCG we've actually taken more costs out than we had told you guys kind of pre-acquisition or at the announcement time.
And we're very pleased with the synergies in terms of Private Client Group and Asset Management the integration of the businesses.
And those are -- the productivity gains we think we get in Private Client Group.
But those take time.
They're not a light switch.
They're -- it's more of a dial.
You have to get people onboard understanding working together trusting.
And I think we'll continue to make those kind of gains.
But that's separate from the fixed income market just as we had a bad equity market.
We could be operating perfectly and everybody could be working together and it could be synergistic but it's hard to beat the market.
So I think you got to separate the synergies the integration which I think has gone exceptionally well and we'll continue to make progress on; and the performance of fixed income markets which are just hard right now.
But to your point if you step back and look at it I mean from acquisition to now I'd say Private Client Group has actually outperformed our expectations somewhat not dramatically but slightly.
But fixed income has significantly underperformed our model that we based the acquisition on.
And unless conditions do improve in the fixed income market then it will be difficult for us to show any significant accretion from the acquisition for sure.
Yes.
And you have to look at -- and again I'd like -- if you look at the initial run rate and this is from people because we've had the retention you would say fixed income was outperforming.
When the market turned down it's been underperforming and it's going to underperform until market conditions improve.
But the people we've got and the franchise we've got and the systems we've got we're very pleased with.
We just wish the market conditions were a little better.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Great.
So when we think about that I mean what sort of -- I mean what are you guys looking for to see a stabilization in the market? I mean do we need a stabilization in interest rates? Obviously they moved some.
I can't imagine with the news around Detroit does that that much great things for munis in general.
I'm just trying to think what type of environment is more suitable? I mean do we need just the really low-rate environment or what? No I think actually a rising rate environment that's predictable and people believe there's a predictable direction would be very good for that business.
But that's not credit driven.
Yes.
And so I think that -- I think an upwardly rising predictable rate with people thinking it's going to move will cause people both in the public finance business to go ahead and issue where they're holding right now and looking at spreads of treasuries versus tax frees and not knowing where they're going causes people to pause.
Once there's some -- once there's a direction people will know how to invest and will issue.
And I think right now it's just unpredictable and people are waiting.
Knowing rates are going to go up they're not going to -- at some point aren't going to make bets until they feel like they have a vision or can see where things are headed.
The business isn't off.
It's just slower.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Harris from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I dialed in late so I apologize if this has already been asked.
Would -- just one question really for me.
Just wondering if you guys would ever consider doing stock buybacks or whether you feel like you've got the capital there to be able to do something like that? Yes.
As I tell people first at these prices we don't think it's a good investment.
We hope to be able to utilize our capital and I always say people that are betting on a balance sheet restructuring for us for accretion [indiscernible] we're probably not a good bet.
We're conservative.
We like a lot of capital.
And again at today's prices we don't think that's a good use of capital.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of William Katz from Citi.
This is actually Neil filling in for Bill this morning.
I just wanted to come back one more time to the comp ratio.
I know you went into some detail.
The 66.5% that you mentioned would you see that as achievable over the full year? Or would you see that more back-end loaded? I think that -- I hope -- I think we would hope to be there by the end of '14 as a run rate but that's what would be embedded in our -- if we achieve all those targets that I mentioned earlier.
I mean that's a pretty big change from where we are and that's a pretty big number.
And it encompasses revenue growth not just expense reduction.
So it would definitely take a little period of time to get there.
Got it.
And then one last one for me.
On the Capital Markets business you had mentioned the 15% pretax margin.
That is a bit of a step-up from sort of the run rates the last 2 quarters and I sort of recognize those are depressed levels.
But what is it going to take to really get that number to that 15% level? Well it's going take a good capital market and a good fixed income market.
Fixed income was running almost 20% for a while and it's down in half and capital -- the equity parts up.
I mean -- so it's -- we just need some stabilized markets.
We've -- I think we've taken the appropriate cost reduction.
And if we get some reasonable markets we can hit that but we need some market help.
And between capital -- between the equity [indiscernible] and fixed income side both those sides have been choppy for a while now so...
Certainly it would take a recovery in the fixed income markets for sure and continuation or improvement of equity capital markets activity from where it is today as well.
They've both been at level -- that level in the past.
It's just a matter of getting back to those levels and we're -- and that takes the market environment to some extent.
And then again we've taken the cost actions now to the -- they have a better chance of hitting those but we need some help.
But we are going to keep our franchise intact.
So we're -- if the market's slow for a while and we have good people we're going to keep the people and gut through it.
It's been our -- the way we've operated for a long time and we'll continue to do that.
We have good people.
We've made the cuts we think that are necessary and then we're going to need some market help.
[Operator Instructions] Well great it sounds like we've gotten through the questions today.
And I know again sometimes the number's a little challenging because of the integration.
But as we told you back through the integration our goal is to get most of this cost-cutting and the adjustments out through the end of this fiscal year and I think we're on track to do that.
In June I think we were a little quicker than we said you -- we had been and we still have a little bit to do.
But we're on our way and hopefully through this next quarter we can get most of the cost adjustments out and positioning.
And the good news is the integration has gone well.
We like the positioning of the franchise and we have to continue both to grow the business and focus on the cost side as we would in any normal environment.
So we appreciate you attending this morning and look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you Jodie.
Thank you sir.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Raymond James Financial Quarterly Analyst Conference Call.
To the extent that Raymond James makes forward-looking statements regarding management expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated expense savings financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters a variety of factors many of which are beyond Raymond James' control could cause actual results and experiences to differ majorly from the expectations and objectives expressed in these statements.
These factors are described in Raymond James' 2012 annual report on Form 10-K which is available on sec.gov.
In addition to those factors in connection with Morgan Keegan transaction the following factors among others could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking or historical performance: difficulty integrating Raymond James and Morgan Keegan's businesses or realizing the projected benefits of the transactions; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; changes in the capital markets; and diversion of management time on integration-related issues.
To the extent Raymond James discusses non-GAAP results the reconciliation to GAAP is available on raymondjames.com and the earnings release issued yesterday.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to your speaker for this morning Mr.
Paul Reilly Chief Executive Officer of Raymond James.
Good morning.
I have in the room Steve Raney from the bank; Jeff Julien our CFO; Jennifer Ackart our Controller; and Ken from Legal.
So we've got a good group here for your questions.
First obviously a good quarter for us.
I caution you against multiplying it x4 as a run rate as you know we have a number of unusual items.
We recorded a net revenue of $4.5 billion for the year up 18% year-over-year and recorded net income of $367 million up 24% year-over-year with our diluted GAAP EPS of $2.58 up 17% year-over-year and our diluted non-GAAP of $2.95 up 18% year-over-year.
And I start with the year because we noticed it's been a big year for us with the Morgan Keegan combination.
And I'm really proud of our group having come through the combination.
You can see the synergy results showing up in the numbers this quarter as we talked about a year ago.
And all 4 of our operating segments really had record years.
So given the market the uncertainty and the combination which the integration is essentially over it was quite a year for us.
On the quarter our revenue is $1.15 billion or up 1% sequentially.
Net income was $117.5 million up 40% sequentially.
And there -- this is a very good operating quarter but there are a number of kind of unusual items in that.
And I'll roughly break it down these are rough numbers.
So the income of $117.5 million it's roughly $30 million to -- $35 million to $40 million over estimates GAAP or non-GAAP.
$15 million of that number was really tax driven.
And I'll let Jeff get into that as he -- I'll go through the segments and he'll into some of the details.
Almost up to $10 million was kind of bank driven.
And then $10 million to $15 million were really operating results which we on the back of record investment banking revenue driven by great M&amp;A activity trading profit recovery and fixed income not only a recovery but a very solid quarter.
And operating costs and synergies that you can see flowing through the P&amp;L now.
For the Private Client Group the year-over-year revenue was up 18% but the pretax is only 7%.
And that really had to do with the IT spend and integration cost that were flowing through.
You can see now that that's reversing as we were through the integration.
The quarter revenue was flat but the pretax was up 7% as you can see the IT cost coming down and the integration cost really getting through.
We're in solid shape.
Our Private Client Group assets under administration of $402.6 billion or a total for the firm of $425.4 billion and this is a record.
And I'll talk about that a little more when we get into outlook.
Capital markets drove much of the beat this quarter and our stronger equity underwritings and fixed income investment banking revenues were both up.
The real driver was M&amp;A up 65% sequentially.
In fact if you take the December month or December quarter as we report and September month but September quarter this quarter as we report much of that activity was very concentrated in those 2 periods.
Trading profits and fixed income went from a negative -- trading profits went from negative $1.5 million last quarter to $18 million plus this.
And that was a positive surprise given this environment and lower inventory levels than we've historically operated.
So a very good performance from both capital markets divisions.
The capital markets revenue was up 15% year-over-year and 35% up on pretax.
And the revenue up 7% for the quarter and 152% sequentially.
So a very strong capital markets quarter.
But we know that business tends to be lumpy and I'll talk about the outlook a little later on.
In our asset management division revenues up 23% year-over-year and pretax up 43% year-over-year driven by market and appreciation inflows and MK assets such as migrated on to our platform.
Our revenue was up 5% sequentially and our pretax up 28%.
But that pretax number and margins were aided by a $1 million comp adjustment as we look to outlook and some of the comp going forward.
So a little higher margin and profit when you look at a normalized rate.
We did have record assets under administration of $56 billion.
RJ Bank revenue up 3% year-on-year and pretax up 11%.
Revenues up 10% sequentially and pretax up 15%.
The bank was aided by a negative credit provision of $2 million.
The good news is that criticized loans when they pay off you release the provision.
The bad news is you can't run on a negative provision forever.
Because we are in the business of making loans and the only way to have a consistent negative provision is to run off your good loans.
So that certainly has an impact on some other items that Jeff will get into.
Loans continue to grow and have done a great job but spreads continue to stay under pressure.
And Jeff and/or Steve will get into that as we go.
You can see that the synergies as promised in this quarter are coming through the P&amp;L.
And in fact one of the good things as CEO I get to declare arbitrary things and one of those is that the MK integration is really over.
And that we're now going to focus on just moving forward with our business.
And you're going to see that line item kind of disappear as we move forward.
So even with the adjustments a good quarter some of that driven by -- a lot of that driven by capital markets and I'll talk about the outlook for our business segments after Jeff goes into a little more detail.
So Jeff? Thanks Paul.
Just to add some color to some of the figures.
This quarter was record earnings for the firm and -- but it was not our -- interestingly our best-ever net revenue quarter.
We trailed the quarter in March this year which had the large private equity transaction that -- you'll remember a large part of which the profits came out through noncontrolling interest.
But still a record on the earnings side.
Pretax margin a number of you have already written reports and have noticed that on the face of it appears that we've kind of reached our margin target already that we cited at the Analyst Day.
And I would say it's somewhat driven by some of these factors that Paul has talked about and I'll talk about in the future.
So again I don't necessarily think we would conclude that we've reached our targets on a sustainable basis yet.
The comp ratio dropped to about 67.3% and 68% for the year.
We have seen improvement no question about it in the comp ratio.
But at the end of the day we think there's still a little bit more to come between now and say the end of fiscal '14.
And that's -- some of that is going to come through what we project as revenue growth with some scale built into it.
But this does -- this is largely reflective of most of the synergies that we expected to get out of the integration of Morgan Keegan which -- a large part of the headcount reduction happening in the June and September quarters.
The tax rate obviously very little explanation.
We have a -- had a very low rate for the quarter 27.5% really driven by 2 major factors.
One is that we have been providing taxes for future dividends from our Canadian subsidiary.
But we've now altered our strategy on that and no longer have to provide those taxes.
So even though that reversal which in fairness to quantify it was $10.7 million occurred in this quarter.
Obviously it relates to a cumulative provision we've made over time for the earnings in Canada.
So really you can really say it's not really this period but keep the current entry relay to the cumulative effect of that.
And then the other piece in this quarter about $4 million related to the gains in our corporate-owned life insurance.
I'm not sure would call that a nonrecurring or one-time event.
Obviously we have COLI fluctuations every quarter and generally they've been more positive than negative to our provision for the year for every year.
But there are about $4 million tax benefit for this quarter and about $8.7 million for the year and just because of the appreciation and the corporate-owned life insurance investments.
GAAP ROE was 13.
Non-GAAP ROE was 14.7.
I will -- I think I agree with one of the comments that we got that said arguably we could have put this nonrecurring tax benefit into the calculation of our non-GAAP earnings because we certainly view that as a nonrecurring type item.
But we -- at some point we don't know where you stop.
So there's a lot of little things that are nonrecurring every quarter.
So we chose not to do that.
But the math was easy and all of you have done it in your reports that I've seen so far.
Book value closed at $26.40; tangible $23.86; and shareholders' equity $3.663 billion of course all records.
And Paul has talked about assets under administration and assets under management both hitting records as well.
For the year we obviously had record revenues and earnings for the year.
Again 12 months of Morgan Keegan this year 6 months last year.
Pretax margin for the year on a GAAP basis was about 12.6% and non-GAAP 14.4%.
So again just because we achieved this quarter -- Paul will talk a little bit about the outlook and why maybe that's not the right thing to do but I'll make a couple of comments myself on that before I turn it back to him.
Comp ratio for the year I mentioned 68.1 and tax rate 35% again aided by both COLI and the one-time tax benefit.
ROE about 10.6%; non-GAAP 12% for the year.
My comment would be with -- my comment before I give it back to Paul for next year -- I'm sorry I need to talk about that bank just for a second also.
A number of you commented yes net interest was relatively flat but they showed pretty dramatic improvement in results sequentially.
In the other revenue line at the bank are a number of items which were negative last quarter and flipped to positive this quarter.
The 2 biggest ones were we do have some ForEx gain and loss at the bank.
We have about $35 million or $40 million of loans at RJ Bank U.S.
that are not hedged.
And the ForEx was a negative $2 million in the June quarter and it was a positive $1 million in this quarter so a $3 million swing in that item.
And then there is the SBA loans that we house on the bank's books and then later package and sell.
We had a negative mark because of the state of the fixed income market in the June quarter.
So we had a negative $2.5 million mark on those loans at the end of June.
And when those loans were subsequently sold in the current quarter that mark substantially went away.
So we ended up with a $2 million writing it back up by over $2 million so a $4.5 million swing on that.
So sequentially it looked like a big jump in those items.
But the fact is last quarter was abnormally penalized by a few million dollars and this quarter just reversed it.
In terms of my take on the outlook is -- well I have a little page here I call it "adjustments to reality." If you look at our year and try to forecast next year in my opinion the things that I would certainly take into consideration are the low tax rate for the year.
COLI is not necessarily nonrecurring so it depends on what your outlook for the market is.
But if you have a flat market outlook it really won't have much impact.
But we certainly won't have that credit again.
So certainly if you adjust the tax rate for the year to a more normalized rate adjust the bank's loan loss provision -- $2.5 million loan loss provision for the year given the loan growth and the amount of turnover we had and the portfolio and all is really abnormally low.
We're happy to have experienced it but I'm not sure we would forecast that to continue.
And then the third thing for the year.
If you remember 2 quarters ago we had a very significant private equity transaction which -- again a large part went out to noncontrolling interest but a large part -- a reasonably sized piece was our profits.
We had about $30 million of profits from that over the course of the year pretax profits hitting our books.
I would -- and there wasn't much activity and private equity in the fourth quarter which now is consolidated into the other segment.
So I would say if I were to try to normalize it again I'd probably look at the June proprietary capital segment and discount that to some extent.
So when you do all that and then you put some kind of reasonable growth rate on it in my opinion it doesn't make next year's current consensus look all that out of line with what might be reality.
But Paul has got some thoughts on that that he'd like to share as well.
Well thank you Jeff.
Let me give you a little color by segment.
And like Jeff I'd caution anyone using this quarter for a base.
Any quarter that's capital markets-driven is -- always has some risks.
In the Private Client Group we've had -- the numbers and commissions with the MK integration and some of the changes and people leaving and through all that have been a little less steady.
But I think if you look forward now that we are steady.
Billable assets were up 6% going into this coming quarter which should bode well for that part of the business and the course of the commission part is yet to come.
Recruiting has picked up substantially in both businesses over this last quarter.
I think we're going to start seeing better results both by I think some market movement.
As the market gets choppy we see more recruiting activity.
The up market we had in the beginning year I think put a downward impact on that.
And secondly we're a lot more focused now.
We're focused outside versus inside.
And so recruiting is up substantially and retention is holding very very well.
And the capital markets as you all know is volatile.
EC and ECM the underwriting window is still open.
But that's always a hard one to tell when it does close.
M&amp;A had a very big year and a very good record but that's a lumpy business.
And again just December and September made up most of that activity.
Backlog looks good but it's lumpy.
So it's hard to predict.
Fixed income commissions are very challenged still.
Again another sequential drop in institutional commissions in this interest rate environment.
And as we said we didn't see that picking up until there is a change in the rate structure which has seemed to settle back down after the government reopened.
And the trading profits for the quarter were very good on half of the inventories that we used to carry.
And we don't take that because we're really -- we size our inventory for our business and they just had exceptional results especially given our competitors.
So in this environment I'm not sure that this quarter run rate is what we should expect every quarter.
I think it was a very very excellent performance for the quarter.
Our asset management is in good shape.
This margin -- our margin this year was inflated.
I mean based on -- if you looked at -- on a normal run rate the comp reversal we still expect good performance and the target of 30% margin we think is they are not the margin that appeared in the quarter.
But 30% is a very solid margin.
I wish all of our businesses had that.
And the bank is going to stay under pressure.
Loan growth is very competitive.
The bank has done good job of growing in a very competitive market.
And the loans and the credit range that we want to take and we're sticking to our credit discipline.
But there is still spreads and interest compression.
And I think until interest rates really move and loans stay competitive we're going to stay under that compression threat.
And the loan provision of $2 million negative isn't normal.
Last year we had a mid $25 million provision and you look for growth and underwriting certainly somewhere closer to that range versus where we are if you have any kind of negative credit at all and your portfolio is more normalized.
Although the credit right now seems very very good still and the trends are good I think that's not a normalized environment.
We still expect -- we're still trying to hit our 15% target by the end of the fourth quarter of 2014 this fiscal year.
So this quarter was aided by a bunch of other factors.
We don't view ourselves as there that we want our businesses to increase their margins to hit our target.
Then if you take out the exceptional items we are not there yet.
But we're still focused like we've told you to attain that margin by the -- that run rate by the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our integration is complete only because I guess I declared it.
The cost synergies are showing up so you can see them.
Now we're focused really on organic growth niche acquisitions in running our business and any cost adjustments we'll do going forward will be based on our business and our strategy.
So given the uncertain environment I'm kind of with Jeff that the kind of the consensus earning outlook is probably in a ballpark that's reasonable given where the markets are today.
And we just can't predict the capital markets.
And if I can just make one more comment.
The integration expense line was a lot higher this quarter than we had anticipated and I think probably The Street as well.
I would tell you that we basically underestimated some of the costs related to some of the real estate consolidation that we -- either in the process of or have planned to do in the near future in several of the big cities mainly institutional offices.
And secondly we had some lingering IT expenses that we had not recognized that hit this quarter.
So overall from start to finish where we had predicted at the beginning of this exercise $110 million over the 2-year period or 18-month period of integration expenses we actually ended up with just a little over $130 million.
So we actually did misestimate that particular figure.
But on other side we probably underestimated the synergies as well.
So -- and some of those are starting to come home to roost.
And there'll be some others drifting in over the year as some deals burn off and things like that.
But the material portion is out at this point in time.
So I think good operating results.
We've got a lot of work ahead of us this quarter driven largely by capital markets.
If that environment continues it'd be nice but that's -- it was an awfully good quarter.
So I would take a x4 if someone will give it to me instantly but I don't think it's that easy and it tends to be lumpy on a very strong quarter.
And great performance by our equity capital and fixed income colleagues given the market.
So with that Brook let's open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up Paul on your comments about the integration and the comments that it's relatively -- I guess it's fully complete actually.
In the past you guys have talked about carrying higher support levels for an extended period of time.
Is that part of your integration costs or are those still in place? And if they are how quickly do you think you can run those down? I think a lot of those have run through.
You're not going to see a big drop in integration.
We think over time we can but some of that is going to have to be systems driven too so it's going to take some time.
So we think we can get more synergy in the operating.
We did do a number of -- in our 2 risks plus a restructuring we had kind of a management risk and operations last quarter.
So we think you're going to -- you've seen of that in this quarter.
We don't see a lot of change in there going forward.
We do think as we get in some of these technology enhancements we're putting in that we can hold the operation cost study as we grow.
But IT as you know we've brought the cost down and it may come down a little bit more.
So you'll see it probably a little bit in the IT lines and -- but in our overall ops line I don't think the dollar amount is going to change much.
And part of that isn't synergy in the operating part.
I'll tell you the biggest increase in our operation support has all been around regulation.
It's been around cost basis.
So we went from 2 to 75 people in order to support it.
And so until we get all that automated that's not going to go down and we don't see it going down because we keep having to add more items.
So a lot of this regulatory driven changes have added to support levels.
And as we automate that we think we can get some synergies.
But I wouldn't look for them in this year.
I think we're pretty well with the small decrease in IT coming that we're pretty well where we're going to be at an operating for the near term.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of just the M&amp;A markets of late I mean if you look at sort of the industry-wide data and they indicate that this -- the markets have been pretty weak.
But looking at some of the results of -- from yourself and some of your competitors a lot have posted pretty strong quarters.
I mean are we at a point in time where it's really just a market that's very driven by sort of specific transactions that people are involved in? It's just -- it's not as important to take look at sort of the broader picture in terms of what's going on the market? That's been a weird segment because backlog has stayed good even through these cycles.
And what we've had is a backlog and then a rush to close everything in December.
So then you have the first quarter maybe into the second quarter that was down.
And now we're seeing deals close again and still a good backlog.
And the feeling is that M&amp;A activity should be good.
Now they're driven by specific transactions and I think the small to mid -- middle market business has probably been more active.
And if you look at the indicators of the big deals it looks weakening.
The middle market has tended to follow the big deal trend but we don't see that right now.
So we had an exceptional quarter and they were deal-specific and good-sized deals for us.
I think we'll continue to do okay in that.
I read the commentary like you that it's going down but it seems like the people in middle market business had a pretty good quarter and they're experiencing what we're experiencing which is good backlog and good activity for those companies.
And it seems like the overall environment is still good.
There is -- people still have a lot of cash and if they dont financing is still available at a very reasonable cost.
And the targets are still reasonably priced in the marketplace in several sectors.
The pieces are in place I think and what's holding it down if anything are these people's outlook for the near term in terms of the economic environment et cetera.
On Sunday someone will write a Harvard Business School case on what happens in M&amp;A in this environment with cash debt cost and what drives it because it's -- I think everyone expected more activity that we've got this year.
And it seems to have been picking back up in our -- and at least in the area that we compete in.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly for me.
I apologize if I missed this earlier.
But in terms of the sort of quarter-on-quarter decline in comp ratio I mean is that primarily attributed to better revenues coming out of the lower comp capital markets business? Or was there something else all factoring into that? Yes you've had revenue both from the bank and their adjustments and capital markets.
And a lot of that is M&amp;A which is less costly than banking overall usually and commissions were are even cheaper but they weren't up so.
I think it's just volume over the fixed cost in that business and our capital markets -- in our Equity Capital Markets business we have research as a big fixed cost in that we're a research-based firm.
So revenue certainly expands the margins so you had a big improvement there.
And in fixed income trading profits again we make more money off of trading profits then commissions.
And we lose more money and we don't get the benefit [indiscernible] last quarter.
So I think it is the capital markets' activity in volume that really drove the drop in comp ratio.
Your next question comes from Hugh Miller with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> So I guess -- following on the capital markets theme I was wondering obviously you guys have talked about doing some cost rationalization within the Equity Capital Markets space given that we are starting to see some signs and glimmers of a better environment there.
Is there more to go from your perspective from that cost? Yes there's -- there may be some.
But I -- we took at a lot of those actions but certainly at the Morgan Keegan integration.
And we've been quarterly looking at the rationalization of bankers.
And we've also made some investments last year on our technology practice which have done very well from a standing start.
So you got a lot of factors that I think will help the comp ratio the -- so you may see some more but a lot of that's through unless revenues start trailing back down.
But right now if we can keep this kind of market revenue -- this kind of market I think our cost seems pretty good.
If the trends back down then we'll have to adjust it.
LLC</strong> Sure okay.
And I guess looking at that too it seems like obviously you guys are cautious about potential for these levels to continue for the ECM business.
But then -- I think you also mentioned that the backlog still seems like it's strong and that you're not really drawing down on it is kind of the way I took it.
But can you just -- is that a good way of looking at it though? It's not as though you're seeing that pull-forward and drawdown on the backlog in this particular quarter ? So I would say that M&amp;A yes but it's lumpy right? So I mean if you look at just -- we publish by quarter.
But if you look the actual monthly activity in September and December it's in awful lot of the business.
And so I think that just falls when it gets closed.
And this doesn't always make sense but if you look at the underwriting business it's harder.
The window is open.
But it seems like the month after every quarter business is slower.
And so we just finished a very strong September October traditionally would be slower.
The same in December it tends to be strong and January seems to be slower.
So it's harder to get insight.
But if you look at the market underwriting window is open there's activity but it's awfully hard to project that business just because it's up and down.
And for us too there is a good flow of deals but whether we're the lead or a co-manager makes a huge difference on how many deals during the year in terms of income.
That spread is a lot bigger than it's ever been traditionally.
So it's just very very hard to predict.
I would say the markets if you ask me for a snapshot right now look good but they're certainly lumpy and just any change in the market hits that business pretty hard.
So we look at it as a very strong quarter and then probably look at it as a -- a better-than-average quarter as a base.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And looking at the fixed income commissions for the institutional segment obviously we saw the contraction there relative to last quarter.
But can you talk about -- from a month-to-month standpoint it seems like obviously it was a very volatile quarter from yield curve perspective and that the bond market rallied in September.
Did you notice any type of change in commissions from that business as we headed into the latter part of the quarter? No not really.
I think commissions have been challenged where we really did well is because we're-- we weren't taking bets.
So I think other people that were taking bets in the inventory some dislocations happened.
We kind of -- were in the market and profited from that.
And so really the trading profits really drove the quarter.
Commissions still stayed soft.
And I think an awful lot of people -- we've benefited in the quarter from repositioning of books.
I think if you look at the overall market commissions and what everybody else has reported everyone is reporting a lot of softness and we're still seeing that softness.
And again -- without a change in the yield curve or in absolute rates I think it's going to stay soft.
Having said that they've done a great job of rightsizing the business.
Our comp and almost of our fixed income business is very variable.
So -- and the guys just actually did a great job the salespeople on the desk of not really taking risk in generating good trading profits.
So -- but I can't tell you that I -- we see any surge in commissions right now.
I wish we did but I don't see it yet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just a question to -- at the bank for Steve.
Can you just provide us a little bit more insight into the dramatic drop that we saw in the criticized loans and kind of what's fostering that? Should we be expecting to see charge-off reversals in future periods or the trends there from an asset quality standpoint? Yes.
We did have some pretty dramatic improvement in asset quality during the quarter that was really related to about 9 or 10 loans that were sold paid off or there are few upgrades as well.
But most of it was just related to payoffs and the loan -- or a loan or 2 being sold.
We'll continue to be proactively managing that number.
Out of that number that was disclosed to you out of the $356 million about $250 million of that are commercial loans with the balance being residential loans.
Those tend to take a lot longer to resolve that our criticized residential loans peaked at about $125 million.
So we whittle that down by about $25 million over the last couple of years.
There is still room for improvement but we had pretty dramatic results in the September quarter.
As a reminder it tends to be lumpy.
We could have a large loan that are criticized or a couple of loans that are criticized in the quarter.
They can influence that number upward also by $40 million or $50 million.
But we have -- we've been on a nice trend for the last 2.5 to 3 years of improved credit metrics and enjoying that environment.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last question would be just if we take a look at some of the growth we saw targeted in the CRE and securities-based lending portfolios if you could just talk about what you're seeing there.
And is that dispersed at all between strength in Canada versus the U.S.
one or the other or both? Yes.
A couple of comments.
Yes that was a little bit unique in that we have lot of activity in the C&amp;I in our Commercial and Industrial loan portfolio but it wound up remaining relatively flat.
We continue to be predominantly focused on commercial lending versus commercial real estate on the corporate lending side of the business.
We're going to continue to focus on that arena.
There's a lot of activity in backlog particularly in Canada.
Right now we've got quite a bit of new loans that we're working on in Canada that will materialize over the next 90 days or so and continued growth in our securities-based lending business.
Each month we've been adding the loan balances as that product has now been in place for about 18 months.
So -- and our residential loan business continues to grow.
We grew that business in the -- quarter-over-quarter as well.
So activities the levels are good.
You did see some of the margin compressions that materialized that resulted from loans going on in the prior few quarters.
We do expect as Paul alluded to continued pressure on margins although we have seen the pace by which rates have been coming down has slowed somewhat.
So...
Your next question comes from Chris Allen with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Paul before you alluded to recruitment trends picking up I was wondering if you could provide more color on that maybe where -- whether you're seeing in legacy Morgan Keegan regions' opportunities or by the different FA buckets? If you could give us some more color that would be great.
I think first the recruiting from both sides tends to be Weyerhaeuser brokers specially set by a couple of them.
As retention deal comes off and a lot of them are legacy acquisition firm people that are still seeking what they have before and I think we are kind of the -- one of the last -- one of those Private Client Group firms that grew up with that regional feel that have full service that are really around so that's been the attraction.
If you look at the independent channel it wasn't as slow.
They had in a better year but it has picked up.
We are seeing real increases in RJA activity and that's both Morgan -- some at the Morgan Keegan branches and some are just other branches we don't -- we kind of designate less.
What I think you're seeing is a focus on re-recruiting people when you go to the integration like that now to looking outside those people on platform they're on the systems.
They are productive again.
They know how to use the systems.
It's one thing to put them on and we have almost a flawless conversion but everything they did is new and that takes a while than it used to.
And I think now they're focused more outside of growing the business and recruiting.
So we've seen the significant pick-up on RJA side the employee side and I think a lot of that is both market improvement in terms of people are looking again to come outside in and our focus being much more outside than it was before.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just kind of following up on that a little bit.
On the productivity side you talked about the legacy Morgan Keegan advisers kind of closing the gap and they utilize Raymond James' product.
Any idea what inning you're in from that perspective? We're a few innings in.
And I think you're seeing good asset management flows as they get more in managed product to certainly help our Asset Management Group.
The reason I think it's early -- so we're seeing good moves on that and the recurring revenue has been in good shape for the firm.
But you're also getting that period where people are getting used to the system.
And we do have summer seasonality in the business.
If you look at the number that shows an awful lot of our Chairman's Counsel President Counsel Leader Counsel trips meetings.
So we're getting through all that in season.
I think we're back down the business.
And so as I've said before the productivity thing I thought was kind of 2-year project and we're -- they joined us in February so we've made a lot of ground.
We still have a lot more we can accomplish.
And I think we will.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chris Harris with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a few questions around the margins and kind of the sustainability we may expect here.
What's really interesting when I look at the performance this quarter is that capital market's revenues were actually down from last year but you had 85% plus growth in pretax income.
And I just want to make sure I'm catching all the variables here.
But I mean is that big drop in expenses primarily driven by comp and sales commissions? Or was there something else in the expenses in Cap Markets that kind of contributed to that phenomenon? There are 2 things.
The biggest piece is the business mix.
This quarter -- you're talking about this quarter versus last year's quarter? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes exactly.
Last year's -- this year's quarter obviously was heavily M&amp;A-driven and trading profit-driven.
And as Paul mentioned earlier those are generally higher-margin segments of the business for us the way it's structured.
Then the commission revenues and fixed income which were very large are in almost $100 million in last year's September quarter and the investment banking revenues.
So it has partly to do with business mix.
And the second piece is fixed income as we've talked about has been on a -- an endeavor to rightsize their business.
And then they were just one of the areas we got some additional synergies from the integration.
And actually beyond synergies because of the business environment actually this year as we've talked about in the last quarter has been taking some steps to whittle down costs and support cost in that operation.
And they've done a good job.
And I'd say it was through the Morgan Keegan integration.
We're really through kind of rifts and changes.
Anything we're doing are tweaks that we've made up.
And we'll continue to tweak and try to become more efficient.
We had not really even begun that process in the fixed income side a year ago.
And I think the early integration of those businesses really started on October 1 last -- of this past fiscal year October 1 of 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
So it sounds like a couple of good things happening there.
In PCG then I'm just wondering if -- maybe -- follow my logic here and see if this kind of makes sense.
But -- so it seems like you guys are going to get some revenue uplift heading into Q4 assuming markets continue to stay robust as billings kind of catch up with asset growth.
And if we're assuming like kind of a steady-state on noninterest expense it just seems to me that you guys have so much momentum happening there that you're going to get well above your 9% margin hurdle in that segment kind of next year if those assumptions are correct.
Is that kind of a good way to look at it? Or am I missing something there? Should we expect some cost inflation on the noninterest expense line -- or excuse me non-comp expense line? It can be particularly if recruiting's active.
That engenders a lot of costs -- not just the cost of the hiring transition assistance to the hired financial advisers but there's a lot of recruiting costs involved in that.
I don't think there'll be a big jump in non-comp expenses.
If anything we think IT maybe has leveled off or could even decline a little bit from here which is part of that segment the way we categorize it's IT and ops.
Other than the part that serves Capital Markets IT and ops is included in the Private Client Group segment.
So they should continuously lift.
And again I think we're optimistic that we'd get to the margin certainly by the end of the year if not for the whole year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And yes it definitely seems like you guys can get there.
All right then in asset management -- and you guys have called this out and sorry if I didn't quite understand it fully.
But the Comp catch-up you had -- or comp adjustment excuse me is that just kind of a one-time item that affected this quarter? Or should we expect kind of a higher level of margin at the segment going forward? I think the 30% target is still a good target for that business.
This quarter was aided by an unusual adjustment.
It wasn't even that big a number.
It just it as a big impact on the margin and that $1 million -- so it drives -- $1 million drive the margin a lot for a quarter.
So I would call that a nonrecurring And even in the annual comp adjustment it was just -- it was an unusual item based on a number of things.
So I would shoot toward the 30%.
But I think we'll continue that good growth.
We've had a good growth there.
So again I wish all of our businesses were at 30% margins my job would be a lot easier.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
It looks to us that the organic growth looks really really strong in that segment.
All right last question then for me.
Just specifically on the bank any update on what you guys think NIM might shake out for fiscal '14? Chris once again continued pressure and there's a lot of variability a lot of market factors that will contribute to that.
Once again I think that the rate by which we've seen the decline in net interest margins is slowing somewhat.
But I would say that 20 to 25 basis point compression for fiscal '14 over fiscal '13 is kind of a good number to be using at this point.
That was our final question.
I will now turn it back to the presenters for closing remarks.
Well great guys.
I appreciate you being on the call and you adjusted the numbers we were trying to communicate as clearly we can.
The book is bigger but it seems like you picked up most of it on your own.
But I'm hopefully applied -- supplied more clarity on the call.
So we're back to work and we'll talk to you soon.
Yes sir.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steven Chubak from Nomura.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to start with a couple of questions on the bank.
We have seen core expenses at the bank excluding the provision actually raised fairly steadily over the last couple of quarters.
Historically you have been running within a pretty high range of $18 million to $22 million a quarter it steps up to $25 million last quarter and actually in the most recent quarter it increased to $28 million.
And I didn't know if the increase was simply a function of higher regulatory in compliance made in for those banks in excess of $10 billion such as yourselves of assets.
And should we be assuming this elevated run rate persists on a go forward basis? Hey Steven.
This is Steve Raney.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bulk of that increased expense is related to additional FDIC charges for the higher deposit level that we have given the size of the balance sheet.
And there is also an internal charge the bank expenses are based on the deposits that we have.
So the bulk of that increase is really just related to the overall size of the banks balance sheet.
And variable so it will grow as the bank grows.
Yes.
Quite exactly.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And  I mean Steve we do have I would say slightly elevated expenses that I would attribute to the regulatory framework.
Our audit and compliance departments are bigger now.
But it's relatively nominal.
We are at 170 FTE at the bank now.
So it's relatively small and on a comparative basis.
Our expense levels and FTEs are very low relative to the size of the enterprise.
Okay.
So presumably what's going to be driving expense rates going forward something going to be the growth of balance sheet? That's correct.
Okay.
And I suppose focusing more on the credit side now clearly the credit trends have been impressive if you look at the dollar allowance it's been stable for the last few quarters while you have added $1.2 billion of loans.
I suppose what I'm trying to glean is what through the cycle charge-off or provision rate should we be contemplating? And that's what you have been modeling in the near term versus the longer term? Yes couple of comments on that.
We did have substantial improvement in credit quality that trend continue.
There is really not a whole lot left in our credit side category.
We actually have 8 commercial loans that have a loan balance currently that are in our credit advisor category.
So it makes it challenging to  I wouldn't forecast more release of reserve related to our criticized assets at least maybe normally but it won't be significant.
So if we continue to grow loans I would expect we will actually be adding to our allowance on a relative basis.
So And based on our loan mix that might be at 130 or 140 basis points on average increase in loans something like that.
Yes.
Okay.
The wild-care I want to remind you all if we do get a sneak example  That's right.
This quarter and that comes in we don't know what it will be.
Sometimes we agree a lot of times that we don't but it is what it is.
Yes.
Historically if you look back in the last four or five years every year in the June quarter we get the shared national credit exam results.
There are usually a handful of loans out of 400 that are subject to the shared national credit exam that we have difference in the ratings sometimes ours are more harshly rated.
We don't upgrade them based on the shared national credit exam.
We do always have a handful of loans that are more harshly graded by the regulators.
And we got to downgrade those loans.
So we usually have some provision expenses and some allowance related to those downgrades in the June quarter.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And just one more on the loan growth outlook and Paul I appreciate a lot of the detailed color you had given earlier in terms of the general market backdrop in pricing.
What we heard from a lot of the big banks was that they were beginning to retrench a bit given that they felt they were not being adequately compensated for taking the credit risk on the commercial side at current pricing levels.
And assuming the backdrop stays on a go forward basis system work to the current market.
How should we be thinking about loan growth trajectory on a go forward basis? You know that one is hard to say.
We are hoping that people having this view which we share that spreads comes in you got to get paid for risk slightly have the effect of maybe spreads coming out a little bit so which we hope the impact is in terms of loan balance growth our production has been pretty steady in the last few quarters.
And it's not so much this quarter just because payoffs and refinancings are down as well.
I would also just mention that this quarter really shed the power of the diversification of our various business units inside the bank.
We did made our first tax exempt long-term the March quarter that business it's directly referred to us by our public finance practice.
So its loans to high credit quality municipalities large not-for-profit higher education hospitals and like.
Our Canadian business grew by $100 million in the quarter.
Our loans REITS in some project finance real estate along with our normal C&amp;I our commercial and industrial loan book grew.
Our SBL we closed 450 units in the March quarter of loans in our securities based lending business for $330 million of loan commitments.
And we closed a 170 mortgage loans during the quarter.
So we got a lot of different businesses inside the bank now.
So we are not really relying on anyone business to drive it.
All right.
Thanks.
That's it for me.
And thank you for taking my questions.
You bet.
Hey good morning guys.
Morning Joel.
Good morning Joel.
Thinking about I mean you guys have done a really nice job of growing your sort of Tier-1 capital on the ratio continues to improve.
And just  in terms of the growth in that just wondering is there a point in time where you sort of start to thinking more about returning capital either through buybacks or increasing the dividend or you really focus more on building a growth capital.
I don't want to sound like a broken record Joel.
But I will go over again.
Our view right now is first we tend to be more heavily capitalized lot of our competitors that's a philosophy.
But at some time if we have cash we can't deploy.
We will have to look at returning it.
And our view right now as we have opportunities to invest the cash in niche acquisitions we talked about some of the areas we have looked about  we have looked at particularly asset management.
And we feel over a reasonable period of time we can deploy it.
If we can't we will have to focus on how we return it.
Our goal right now is we think there are opportunities to deploy that capital inside the business.
Okay.
And then just  I appreciate the comments you made in terms of the outlook particularly ECM being kind of market dependent.
But just wondering given the volatility we have seen and coming off the strong quarter you had in ECM have you seen any kind of issue or hesitancy in terms of bringing deals to market or has the outlook changed at all just given what's gone on the markets over the past month or so? I dont think so.
I think we had  that's a ridiculously strong market over the last year and we got a little bit correction this quarter.
But I think that our read right now is the issuers are lined up just waiting if there is a good market they will go.
So I don't see any difference when we saw it a quarter ago.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Hey good morning guys.
How are you? Hey Devin.
So it's a question on fixed income obviously it's kind of continued to be soft and appreciate the commentary around the need for I guess higher rates.
And then I get that you guys are putting nichey fixed income business with a lot of focus on depositories and municipalities.
But just trying to get a little bit more color I mean is there anything else here that you think could drive better activity.
And then just outside of that or anything else going on behind the scenes of the company where you are trying to boost growth within the fixed income business broadly whether it would be you adding into other areas that you may see is a better growth drivers or is it more just stay in the course and hoping that we get a little better environment that could drive better claim volumes? Yes.
I would say that first rates and volatility are  and yield curve are the big drivers of fixed income.
So volatility has been kept in a pretty short range.
And rates have stayed low.
So we need both of those.
And I think moving rates changing environment would help that business significantly.
We have looked at growing the business.
We are pretty committed to keeping our risk profile the same.
So we don't need to expand and if you look at our core franchises whether its bank deposits or a muni sales or the [gov] (ph) sales we are pretty comfortable in our position.
So as we look at other businesses outside we are looking at a number  they got to step within our risk profile as they go.
Some of the businesses we look at or the opportunities we look at the marketplace outside of our risk profile.
So I don't think you are going to see us expand much more what we are doing now.
But we are looking at adjacencies and just haven't found anything compelling at this point.
We are expanding in the U.K.
I can't say it's a huge profitable venture right now.
We have got a good team.
And we have got the base and it's fired up.
And we are  we have had that initiative on since pre-Morgan Keegan and continued to try to grow as we have in our both in our capital markets and our private client group where we have equivalent of an independent kind of franchise there in London and looking at growing that also.
Good.
Thanks.
And then with respect to FA recruiting and a nice quarter it sounds like you are pretty optimistic there.
So can you shed any more light I guess into the outlook for additions and maybe how they'd like to play out over the years just based on the conversations you guys are having.
Are the office visits up over the last year; is there any color with respect to that? And then what other areas at the firm outside of the financial advisor private wealth management area are you looking to add people? We have 150 opening right now in our company.
So we are a hirer.
If you look at the recruiting pipeline and say it's up from last year and it's very very good.
First of the year is the time when is probably the most active time in terms of people coming down if it's a year end change and it's a nice place to come visit in the winter.
That pipeline still looks good.
And it is better than last year.
Our results are better than last year.
Our pipelines are better than last year.
Our RAA initiative is relatively new in that pipeline is good without a lot of results.
We have had a couple of joints.
We are hopeful that and our hybrid select model will both increase.
So that pipeline has been growing but it takes a while to actually close it's a year  probably a good year across the time you bring someone in the time they sign-up just for a lots of reason.
Most really good advisors are slow because they are worried about their clients.
And I think they are in a transition.
But the pipeline looks good and it's been good.
Areas outside the firm as I talked asset management we feel it's a growth opportunity.
We like the M&amp;A days whether its in Europe Canada or the U.S.
continue to grow and if we see opportunities there.
And there is some others that we look at in and out.
So we have a good corporate development effort now.
I can tell you we looked and talked to a lot of people but we are very selective in that pipeline is actually pretty good now too.
But we are not  we don't count on it and nothings the size of Morgan Keegan.
They are much nichier types of opportunities but there were much more active and aggressive in sourcing selecting and talking to people there.
Great.
Appreciate all that color.
And then just lastly apologize if I missed this but I guess a question for Jeff just on the number the accounting service fee bumped in the quarter was at driven just by more accounts more assets or is there something else going on there just trying to gauge the sustainability of what was a really nice quarter for that line? No.
Predominantly is that.
We renegotiated some of our arrangements with some of the providers that we share fees with in that regard and had to elevate our accruals in that level.
So I think that what you are seeing is that coupled with the implementation of some of the accounting service fee that we talked about couple of quarters ago was some of the client fee changes had it been implemented and will be continued to be implemented throughout the year.
So I think that it's a  its more of a higher run rate than we had been out in the past.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
I will just make one comment on the number of 150 job openings I will make a comment that that some number though it's not a majority but some number those would be to replace some consultant that we are employing particularly in some of the technology areas.
So it won't necessarily result in pure incremental expense as bring some people on.
Or we have turnover to.
I mean we got to replace.
I was assuming that 150 the majority of that's probably non-producing type of roles is that right? Correct correct.
We don't post for financial advisors.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Hey Jim.
Two questions.
First on the comp ratio I think Jeff if I look back in the third your fiscal third quarter last year.
I think if you suggested if you hit your targets of 15% pre-tax margin et cetera that would imply I guess on a flat revenue base the comp ratio nearly 66.5% you did 68.1% last year and now we are just looking to hold it flat this year despite revenues being up.
Do you think there is more opportunity there over time or is it just maybe you stepped up investment spending? How do we think about where that comp ratio could come out as revenues grow? The comp ratio bounces around based on where we hire people obviously contractors that they are having good recruiting and a good production period.
They have a much higher pay out.
Based on our current mix of businesses and the current sources of revenues to get that 15% margin we need to at about 68% comp ratio by the end of the year.
The one ratio that we are really I guess in our minds now changing our internal target on would be the private client margin where we start the year with a 9% target.
We would be pretty disappointed if it ended up at 9 now given the run rate currently.
But we also need that on the increased revenues to get to that 15% margin.
So 68 is our target for the end of the year and I can't tell you exactly some I had work a year ago went into that a number I don't know really remember at this point.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And maybe just going  getting onto the retail the private client side.
Can you give a sense on the commissions in fees line which jump nicely is that more kind of annuity like fee based revenues or was it more trading how do we think about that line going forward? Within the private client group segment almost 70% of their revenues are recurring.
So they have a very very heavy fee emphasis trails things that are not transaction oriented.
Most of the trading volume when we record number of trades which we have to record to the exchanges and report a lot of those are occurring in (indiscernible) fee accounts.
So not really generating revenues.
So clearly the biggest driver was  has been the increase in assets.
We had a good increase from October 1st to January 1st in billings which everyone was aware of and dealt into their models as well as continued our recruiting and people bringing in new assets going forward.
So it's really as to do more with asset levels and it does trading volume.
So most of the sequential improvement was asset level is that what you are seeing? That would be yes.
Okay.
If we kind of do the back of the envelop it looks like you might have had close to $5 billion plus in net inflows is that a fair number to think about? Don't know that on the top of my head.
We have had new FAs and we have had new  versus you are talking about versus appreciation? Yes.
Don't know the break down in total client assets of that number.
I know within asset management.
But I don't know within private client.
Okay.
Thats fine.
Certainly you can assume that it didn't rise.
Generally it rises about 50% of the S&amp;P because of little over half of our client assets are equity related.
Great.
Okay.
Yes.
That's kind of where it comes out.
It would it mean it's mostly flows this particular quarter right? Right.
That's helpful.
And just one big picture question I mean your sense of retail engagements seems like its been picking up but what's your sense of where we are from a risk taking perspective among your retail clients? Cash is a percentage of assets was actually down which is interesting for us the cash balances have been kind of flat this quarter and we are used to them always going out.
So if you look at where they are flowing you would say equity kind of large and mid-cap and fixed income short durations but having said that I would still talk about the retail and investor the individual investor is cautious.
So trying to get some return on their assets but cautious in the marketplace so it's up that I wouldn't call it they are all in.
Right.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Hey apologize if you guys covered this already but I wanted to kind of run through the expense structure just one more time.
So I guess if we think about the truly seasonal impact Jeff I think that comes out to be somewhere around $10 million that we should expect to come down.
Is that going to happen I guess all in the second quarter or sorry your fiscal third quarter or kind of like over the course of the year.
And then I was hoping you guys could quantify the actual dollar amount you spend on data center reallocation? The $8 million to $10 million range number I gave you stuff that should disappear right away.
The FICA I took one quarter of it just assuming it dissipates ratably over the rest of the year.
But that wasnt all necessarily seasonal.
It also included running of a television add and data center relocation which don't happen every March.
But the rest of it does happen every March.
The data center relocation was about $2 million total costs to us.
Out of total costs but just kind of an over time testing cost that was elevated to data center cost a little more than that.
Obviously we are going to have cost of running it going forward.
And we have the cost of building it in the past.
But this quarter that was the elevated relocation expense.
Okay.
I got it.
Sorry to dump it down like expenses step down by about maybe $8 million or so next quarter? That's my belief based on these factors.
Great.
Thanks.
I'm not saying nothing new can arise that we don't know about today.
But based on what we know that would be correct.
Jeff now I get it all else equal.
So the second question I have three guys around the fixed income trading environment.
I mean it looks like muni funds flows have gotten better this year.
I think they are positive on net year-to-date basis for the industry and obviously you are a very big player in the public finance space in the muni space what impact is that having I guess on the fixed income business for you guys.
And if the strike continues what kind of results I guess we should expect from fixed income trading? As a muni if you look at the retail trading because of the interest in muni  its actually performed fairly well.
The institutional the corporate and the corporate that kind of other businesses that are really did.
So I think that you are seeing what you are seeing in the run rates right now we see its continuing until there is a change in the market.
So the retail I call retail kind of commission part of the business okay on the institutional part very tough.
Got it.
And then the last one for me guys.
Obviously lots of focus in the market on the higher interest rate backdrop potentially down the road.
You guys have provided sensitivity to  I believe somewhere around 100 basis point raise interest rates.
Presumably that could be some further net interest margin expansion of the bank if rates continue to rise beyond a 100 basis points.
Have you given any more thought on what the ultimate upside to pre-tax income or revenues could be for the franchise as a whole be on the first 100 basis points? Yes.
In the first 100 it's hard to quantify it depends on what free cash holding we obviously would earn more on our own corporate cash as rates continue to rise from there.
But beyond that it's a fairly nominal number say somewhere between $10 million and $20 million for the every 100 basis points beyond that for the next  talked about 300.
Banks going to operate of a spread more than just what the rate it.
So  Yes.
It's not overly material after the first 100 its really the biggest factor is the earnings on our own free cash.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much for taking the questions.
Yes.
Are there no further questions Jodi? Great.
Well again we think this was a good quarter and we know that the first quarter and the second quarter they have bumped around but it's an average.
I think we're about where we would expect it to be.
Well-positioned markets are with us.
We feel good about where we are.
So thank you for joining us and we will talk to you again soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the Earnings Call for Raymond James Financial Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2014.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference facilitator today.
This call is being recorded and would be available on the company's website.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Paul Shoukry Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations at Raymond James Financial.
Good morning and thank you for taking time out of your busy schedules to join us this morning.
We certainly do not take your time or interest in Raymond James for granted so thank you.
After reading the following disclosure I'll turn the call over to Paul Reilly our Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Julien our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks they will ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives business prospects anticipated savings financial results industry or market conditions demands for our products acquisitions anticipated results of litigation &amp; regulatory developments or general economic conditions.
In addition to words such as believe expect anticipate intends plans projects forecasts and future and conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statements that necessarily depends on future events or intended to identify forward-looking statements.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent forms 10-Q which are available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
So with that I will turn the call over to Paul Reilly CEO of Raymond James Financial.
Paul? Thanks Paul and good morning.
So it's always a little weird little scary releasing the day before Halloween.
And even though the ghouls and goblins seem to come out in October I think we ended up with more of a treat than a trick for the quarter.
It's a great quarter to close out a great year.
33 records as we counted them so we're not going to go through them all.
Hopefully I'll try not to use the word through them all.
The fiscal year again great with $4.86 billion 8% increase year-over-year $480 million net income which is a 31% increase before all the adjustments 15% after.
EPS of fully diluted $3.32 a share.
Those are all records for us.
And the September quarter $1.29 billion of revenue up 6% over last year.
I mean sequentially.
Net income $136.4 million up 11% sequentially and $0.94 per fully diluted share.
So our record annual net revenue for all 4 segments we all -- I think that people focused on M&amp;A but if you look across the firm we actually had a record year and revenue for all 4 segments and a record pretax in 3 of the 4 segments except for the bank which had really a second best year and very good performance.
So 12.3% ROE to our shareholders on an over 20% capital I think a good return to the shareholders.
I want to pause here a second just to say how extremely grateful I am to all our advisers and associates who worked hard.
I think this validates our combination with Morgan Keegan a few years ago which has been seamlessly integrated now.
And based on the culture here that Bob and Tom James have built honestly it's kind an easy firm to run and hit -- point it in the right direction as people have executed extremely well.
I'm going to talk for a few minutes about the segment and then Jeff Julien is going to go over the more detailed items that have affected the results.
In the Private Client Group for the September quarter net revenues of $861.1 million which is 16% over the prior year quarter and up 5% sequentially.
And the pretax of $100.2 million is up 55% over the prior year quarter and 23% sequentially.
Annually $3.27 billion of net revenue up 12% over the prior year and pretax income of $330 million up 43% over the prior year.
Now these were all driven by a number of factors.
Certainly market appreciation helped but we had our second best recruiting year ever.
Certainly our great recruiting is driving that and our client-pricing initiatives all at it.
And Jeff is going to add some commentary especially for the quarter on IT and fees which certainly helped the numbers.
IT may well be a little bit more temporary help for the quarter as we're in transition between projects and our new fee schedules also would have some adjustments on an ongoing basis.
Private Client Group asset is up $450.6 billion.
It's up 11.9% for the year down slightly for the quarter.
And I'm going to address that a little bit later.
Advisers now stand at 6 265.
We're always proud when we have robust recruiting but the key for our firm is retention as we focus every day on retention of our great advisers.
That's been the key to our financial success.
We reached the 10.1% marked target -- we beat the 10% target margin for this segment.
Both divisions RJA and RJFS our employee and independent advisers performed very well; and also our IRA division which we've started to aggressively roll out is showing promising recruiting results.
Capital Markets a big story for the quarter $263.6 million 9% over last year's quarter 11% sequentially up.
Our record pretax profits of 39.5% for the quarter down 2% really from last year's quarter which is very good up 41% sequentially; and they hit a 15% pretax margin for the quarter.
Annually the $966.2 million up 3% over the previous year.
Pretax of $130.6 million up 28% over the prior year.
This is really strong in investment banking results for the quarter of $115 million $340 million for the year driven really by M&amp;A.
M&amp;A was $150 million for the year up 19%; but $57 million of that hit this quarter.
Underwriting $100 million up 14%.
Fixed Income banking of $55 million up 15%.
And Tax Credit Funds at $34 million up 40%.
So a lot of factors contributed across that brought a strong quarter in Capital Markets.
Somewhat muted by the Fixed Income performance which we believe our Fixed Income team did an exceptional job in a very tough margin.
We had headwinds.
Fixed Income institutional commissions were down 25% over last year over $80 million.
But the trading profits doubled holding profitability very steady for the year so great performance on a very tough market.
Public finance continue to grow in recruitment builder franchise and again we had a Top 10 ranking on our way to another Top 10 ranking in public finance this year.
Asset Management similarly very very good quarter and year $94.9 million up 17% over last year's quarter and 4% sequentially on the revenue side.
And record pretax of $35.3 million up 15% over last year's quarter and 13% sequentially.
Overall if you look at the year though with revenue at $369.7 million up 28% year-over-year and the pretax of $128.3 million up 33% over last year.
It's a very strong performance.
The AUM year-over-year is up 15.4% and down slightly this quarter.
I know people that had questions on flows but when you really look at the net flows we're up 7.7% for the year.
That's 15.4%.
If you look at the quarter although the S&amp;P was somewhat flat the small-cap in International segment was down about 5% which had a little more drag on this segment given our concentration in the small cap space in our Eagle division.
RJA Bank.
Revenues are $93.1 million for the quarter up 4% over last year and 2% sequentially.
Pretax of $64.1 million down 12% over last year and 1% sequentially.
Record revenues of $351.8 million for the year up 1%.
Pretax down 9% at $242.8 million.
The story of the year was just great net loan growth.
We ended up with a record net loans of $10.96 billion up 24% over last year and 5.7% sequentially.
This is a great accomplishment given our conservative underwriting standards to be able to drive that loan growth.
And the offset to that loan growth was NIM compression.
If you look at through the year we almost had a 27% drop basis -- point drop in the NIM.
The good news it looks like the NIM has improved this quarter and Jeff's going to comment on that a little bit.
Credit metrics continue to be strong and improved.
All in all quite a year quite a quarter and I want to congratulate our team.
And now I'll turn it over to Jeff Julien.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
Given that it can be a little bit difficult from that segments to line items we started the practice now of me actually walking through some of the line items and I'll comment on some of the factors within those line items and kind of give you our take on or feel for those line items going forward as best as we can.
Not a lot to say about securities commissions and fees I think you all know the drivers there in PCG.
I can tell you that the billings on October 1 were flat to slightly up from July 1 which is indicative of the billings happening before we hit the low point here in this recent 9% mini-correction.
In addition to that for next year we are anticipating some continued good recruiting.
We hope that continues to -- at roughly the rate that it's been going that would be wonderful.
Also the recent volatility actually both in interest rate and in the equity markets that will help on the institutional commission side.
Although during the year it was pretty benign in terms of volatility but we certainly seen some to start this current fiscal year.
Paul has talked about the very very strong investment banking revenues.
This is probably our most difficult line item to budget in the revenue side.
We averaged this year around $85 million per quarter.
Perhaps that's a reasonable baseline for looking forward and whatever you're projecting for your pure Investment Banking clients in terms of change for next year maybe you assume something similar for that division within our company.
Net interest income is interesting.
It's nice to see it surpassed $100 million for the quarter.
The biggest driver there of course was the bank.
We did see that 14 basis point net interest margin improvement.
We've been talking at least the last couple of quarters about how NIM was -- the NIM compression was slowing down and I guess I'll go and stick my neck out a little bit and say it looks like it's bounced off the bottom at least for the very near term.
The 14 basis point improvement sequentially was really a combination of factors.
Some of it was additional corporate loan fees that were recognized because of some payoffs.
But also we were able to put some of our cash for our investments of the bank to work in the loans and -- but around all that there truly was some net interest margin improvement in the outstanding portfolio of about 4 basis points and we have made a comment in the press release that it appears that new productions being done at higher levels and I can certainly attest to that as part of the Loan Committee.
So looking what's in the pipeline it looks like we're off the bottom there.
Going forward we're not projecting a dramatic rebound in net interest margin.
We are projecting some pretty healthy loan growth and I'll let Steve Raney who's here with us talk about that shortly.
But we are just kind of projecting NIM to hold flat around 3% for this year.
Again we're not projecting any interest rate hikes either this year.
Account and service fees I think caught everybody a little bit offguard in terms of the 10% sequential growth throughout $112 million for the quarter.
Some of that relates to I guess I'll have to say some sort of some catch-up entries as we negotiated some contracts we brought in some outside assets under the billing process and things like that.
Some of it actually relate a little bit to the June quarter but we didn't have the numbers in time to record them there didn't know what they were at the time.
So in terms of our run rate looking forward probably about $108 million of that $112 million is probably about the true run rate of where we are at this point in time.
We talked about trading profits.
The only thing I'll remind you of is when you look at the year-over-year comparison remember that last year included that May-June muni-market swoon that impacted trading profits quite negatively for the year.
Other than that quarter they've been pretty steady at that $14 million $15 million per quarter rate.
So that's again given the market environment that's a pretty good accomplishment.
Other revenues I think you know the main driver in that line in the past has been private equity activity.
We did have a lot less gain in that than we did in the preceding quarter.
We also have other things hitting in there.
We talked about foreign currency gains and losses in the past at the bank.
We did actually have a gain in the June quarter and a loss in the September quarter in that line item so that was about a $4 million swing or $3.3 million swing quarter-to-quarter.
I'm happy to report that between maturities and us transferring the remaining Canadian-denominated loans to our Canadian-financing sub at the bank we won't be talking about that factor going forward.
On the expense side comp obviously gets a lot of discussion.
We did achieve the run rate that we were hoping to by the end of the fiscal year.
We hit the 67.7% for the fourth quarter and we actually end up with 68.1% for the entire fiscal year.
I don't know that we're moving the benchmark a lot but we -- if we can stay sub-68% for the coming year with some revenue growth I think that we'll be -- see some margin improvement.
Paul mentioned the data communications expenses.
We did kind of take just a little bit of a hiatus this quarter this past quarter as we completed some projects and just decided not to launch right into a bunch of new ones for a couple of months.
So we did see -- and some of the projects we completed that we've been working on now hit the capitalization phase.
That's a little bit hard to predict.
So while we think the mid-60s number we've been guiding you to is probably still right on an annual basis.
It's a little bit lumpy.
It's not always going to be a consistent number so we're still sort of expecting that run rate spend -- it was $63 million per quarter this year and $64 million for the quarter the year before that so I think that guidance-wise we still think that we'll average that.
We certainly are not going to abandon our investments we're making in technology to help support our financial advisers.
The bank loan loss returned to what I'd call somewhat more normal levels still a little bit low relative to the 24% loan growth.
But last year's was just abnormally low.
Obviously at $2 million given all the credit enhancement we had.
We had some of that this year some credit improvement which caused some declines in growth.
But going forward we don't have -- as you can see our criticized asset balances are coming down dramatically so there's not a whole lot of additional credits to be gained from credit improvement.
There's still some but we're -- we would expect a more normal 130 to 140 basis point charge on loan growth for the next year.
The other expense line item there's many small items that come in that the only one of any magnitude and it wasn't particularly large was some legal expenses that hit during the quarter bigger than the preceding quarter.
That's another one that bounces around a little bit but still at a very reasonable rate in terms of total expense.
I will talk about the tax rate just for a second.
It came in at a little under 36% for the year.
And a lot of that versus our 37% to 37.5% guidance for the year at the beginning of the year had to do with the strong equity market and the tax-exempt gains realized on our corporate-owned life insurance portfolio.
I guess guidance-wise I'd say that we're still probably at 37% to 37.5-somewhere-in-that-range percent taxpayer in a flat market environment given the various factors that we have that impact our rate.
In an upmarket I think you can sort of assume that rate's going to be 100 to 150 basis points better with the corporate-owned life insurance swing; and that in a poor market just the opposite.
So what rate you use I guess would depend a little bit on your outlook for the market.
A couple of other factors we did did a 13.4% ROE for the quarter and 12.3% for the year.
I'll remind you that 12% is somewhat our target rate for this interest rate environment.
We'll have a very different target when we get to -- if and when we get to a more normal interest rate levels.
Shareholders' equity got to $4.1 billion.
That's up 13.1% over last year notwithstanding the almost $100 million et cetera that went out in dividends.
And I will lastly mention our leverage ratio which actually has improved as simple assets to equity leverage ratio was 6.3 a year ago and now it's down to 5.6.
And those factors have continued to drive a very positive regulatory capital ratios as well.
So all looks very strong on that front.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
Just the outlook Jeff kind of touched on our go-forward PCG building starting in the quarter.
I think the key for this quarter is volatility and certainly as asset levels stayed down they've recovered and that's where they're heading now.
It'll affect next quarter but the volatility has opened some of the trading side as you know a big chunk of our Private Client Group is fee-based.
The recruiting pipeline is still very very strong.
We're hoping to surpass last year's recruiting.
From a goal standpoint this last year was our second best year ever to '09 when there's kind of a slight -- some yes certain players that were in the paper certain that weren't and we were certainly beneficiaries of that.
But our recruiting pipeline stays very strong and also for a very high producing advisers both in terms of assets and revenue with multi-million dollar team visits are common every day here now.
And we'll continue to focus recruiting throughout the country but we've expanded with particular focus out West and in the Northeast where we gained progress.
Asset management.
Again assets should grow as we recruit to PCG.
Market volatility may create some headwinds in AUM.
Certainly the market impacts that but we think we're in good shape.
As we've always said we continue to look and our actively looking for niche acquisitions to grow that business.
The capital markets side.
The equity side of the business certainly had a strong year.
And just that $85 million average might be a number but this was a record year for us and you never know what the market -- where that number goes.
As he said probably the hardest one to predict and -- but we have expanded our tech practice starting a few years ago broaden our consumer team and expanding into another SDU as we're looking so we're continuing to make investments and very happy with our backlog.
It's strong and with our people.
But again the market's going to play a big factor in that.
Fixed Income the headwinds will continue.
October started very volatile in the markets which was tougher on trading profits but was positive on commissions so who knows where it'll settle out as the market settles out.
But we have a great team and they're well positioned.
In public finance we continue to grow.
We've done a great job in California and other states adding bankers and continue to stay a Top 10 banker and we'll use this downturn to recruit good people to build the platform.
Bank loan growth looks very strong.
Runoff has dropped from 30% to 20% and production's up.
We also have a contract to purchase $235 million of 5/1 adjustable resi loans that should close in December as we finish our due diligence and we expect that will close and that'll happen near the end of the quarter.
But I think you're going to see strong loan growth as a start in the quarter.
And again I think every time we predicted loan growth we're -- the market changes and the next quarter may be different but we look like we're in good shape there.
So all in all I think a strong quarter a strong year.
And Jeff has something to add before we turn it over to questions.
Yes when you look at the year-to-year results which are as shown in the press release the GAAP results I just want to remind you some of the comparative factors that play into that.
If you remember last year included about a $74 million in revenues from the sale of a private equity holding which -- majority of which was not to our interest which obviously impacted noncontrolling interest but that was an item that drove that other revenues last year.
Secondly we had that May-June muni swoon I talked about in trading profits last year which certainly impacted that comparison.
And on the expense side last year we were still showing $73.5 million of integration costs which we're no longer showing as we're fully integrated.
And last year we had that abnormally low loan loss provision despite some pretty strong loan growth in 2013.
So when you put some kind of reasonable adjustment all of those out of the ordinary type factors I think that you would say that on adjusted basis the revenue which we recorded an 8% increase actually increased more than that on operating basis.
But on the other hand while we showed a 33% increase in pretax profits as shown on the bottom of the segment page for the year pretax income growth I think that when you adjust for all those factors it probably wasn't quite that good but it was still a very very strong performance year-over-year.
Okay.
And with that we'll turn it back -- we'll turn it over to you operator Felicia for question.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citi.
This is actually Ryan Bailey filling in for Bill.
My question was regarding -- I know you mentioned it.
I was wondering what your outlook is for the investment banking business.
We know M&amp;A has been pretty good over the last couple of quarters.
Do you have any color into that going forward? I wish I did.
As we said it's the hardest one to predict.
I would just say that we came off of a kind of a record quarter for M&amp;A and very strong for banking.
Backlog is very good.
The market in October certainly on the underwriting business pushed some deals back but they didn't cancel.
We think the pipeline is strong.
But you have to remember this was a very very strong quarter so I wouldn't anticipate -- I hope we repeat it and grow from here.
I wouldn't anticipate that though.
And Jeff gave you the average for the year.
That might be good for the next quarter given where we were but again the market changes by the week or by the day sometimes sometimes by the hour.
Sorry if you don't mind another question just kind of on I guess a different topic.
Just wondering -- I know you mentioned again the asset management business kind of looking for tuck-in acquisitions there.
Do you have -- anything that you're looking at in particular? Or anything on the pipeline? We've been aggressively looking for 2 years and we're just very conservative and cautious so we've talked to lots of firms and it's always a -- part of it's a timing issue sometimes.
You like each other and it's not the right time.
Sometimes we don't agree on the price.
And if there's not a culture fit we won't even start.
So we've been actively talking and we don't have anything to announce.
But we're -- I'm proud of the effort they're making in the market and the due diligence.
When we do talk to people it's pretty heavy.
And if we find it we'll close.
If we won't we don't.
And the ones that have been nearer term were more active than a little smaller but that could change tomorrow too so...
And your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Can you talk a little bit about -- you've noted for the last couple of quarters record recruiting but it looks like this quarter the number of new updates kind of slowed.
Is it just sort of a timing issue? How should we think about that? Because I think as we looked at it sequentially it was up couple -- maybe 20 basis points in terms of growth.
Do you think we should expect that to pick up? Yes there's 2 pieces to it.
First is it's a net number when you see it.
And unfortunately it's not just regretted attrition.
I mean some is regretted.
We've had a number of deaths.
We have a number of retirements as an over FA force.
We do have occasional regretted attrition although that's low.
And we do have times where people leave the industry just because at the lower end they're not making it so it's a hard net number.
But if you look at productivity per adviser part of that is market driven but a lot of it is a higher end FAs coming in.
So the number is a little lumpy.
It was -- 2 quarters ago it was really large [indiscernible] This quarter it looks flattish.
But if you average it out I think it's pretty steady.
And where people sign -- when people join us it can be lumpy.
And would you expect I mean just on the flow side it looks like obviously it's a volatile quarter in terms of the market but if you kind of look at your fee-based assets they did not a lot of -- it's any net inflows this quarter versus a pretty strong flows in the last few.
Is that just market volatility? Or any other color on flows? It's driven by both.
Certainly the market impacts the flows.
But recruiting and people bringing assets in impact the flows too.
So again given last year you -- we got -- we're impacted by both.
I don't know if I could break it out for the quarter how much was due to what.
But net-net we think we're having good flows.
And from advisers and from productivity of existing advisers and certainly the market has an impact.
So it's all of those that were impacting that number.
Great.
Okay.
All right.
That's Fair.
And last one for me.
Just if I look at -- you guys have had very strong loan growth.
You're now over the last 2 quarters loans -- your loan-to-deposit ratio is now over 100%.
Do you -- with that dynamic do you start to -- I guess what could strain you in terms of growing the loan book in the balance sheet? Is it deposits? Or is that not an issue? And you're just listing to keep growing? Our only internal -- we have 2 internal constraints.
One is we don't want more than half our cash client cash to be in the bank and that's not a constraint for the foreseeable future.
It's under 1/3 right now.
Which is under 1/3.
We don't want to be half.
We have an internal guideline and we don't want it to be -- we're targeting them around 35% of capital which we're at but not to exceed 40% but the bank's earnings too.
Right now the biggest constraint is just if we get good credits with acceptable spreads we can grow.
And the times we slowed the growth is when felt we weren't getting good credits or the spreads for the risk weren't acceptable.
And it looks like the environment right now looks promising.
But again that's even throughout last year.
I think every quarter the dynamics are a little different.
But right now it's in good shape.
So do you still feel like you can get pretty good spreads just funding it in the wholesale market without deposits? Without deposits we're...
Client cash.
Yes.
We have plenty of client cash to fund our deposits.
We -- the bank takes what it needs and then we sweep it out amongst other banks and we're not constrained on deposits.
Jim I would also -- would just offer up that we have ample liquidity still at the bank and we also have contingent funding sources borrowing availability at Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve so we manage that very conservatively in terms of making sure we've got plenty of cushion from liquidity for funding.
And as Jeff and Paul mentioned we do have about 1/3 of client cash balances currently deployed in the bank.
And my 2 cents on that is we don't have a very good track record of predicting the bank growth or spreads or anything else.
For interest rates.
We've generally been on the conservative side but we've -- that's why we -- that's where our feelings are today.
Okay.
Great.
And if you can predict what rates are doing and that would be also great.
Yes.
If we could do that we wouldn't be working now.
And your next question comes from the line of Douglas Sipkin with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions.
A bit nitpicky on comp.
I know you guys you came in a little bit here in the fourth quarter.
Can you maybe refresh us a little bit? I just recall there were a couple of items which may start to ease in the comp ratio.
Maybe it starts in '15.
Maybe it relates to a little bit lower payouts and some of the trading businesses I mean Fixed Income.
And maybe some RSUs which I think are done running through the system in '15.
Can you give us an update on that? Yes there were 3 pieces from the Morgan Keegan acquisition that were impacting the comp ratio.
The first was the management piece which was adding about $6 million a year.
That will end at the end of March 2015.
Then there's a 5-year piece that's costing us about $6 million to $7 million a year that relates primarily to the Fixed Income Capital Markets group that obviously runs through the end of March 17.
And then the third piece was the Private Client Group which was a 7-year deal which was costing us $18 million to $20 million a year which obviously has only run 2.5 years of that 7-year life.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
So there's probably a touch of relief in '15 but nothing yet really major until we get a couple of years further out? That's probably accurate.
And then we put in place new retention along the way anyway so...
LLLP Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
Okay.
Great.
So a question for Paul I mean obviously shareholder can't complain a 13.4% ROE and practically 0 interest rate environment very impressive.
That being said you guys -- the balance sheet looks so strong.
I mean what would it take for you guys to do something a little bit more I would call it unorthodox for you around capital return policy.
I know you guys have been looking to grow the acquisitions small stuff and the asset managers but it's been a while and the earnings continue to go up and the balance sheet continues to get stronger.
So I'm just curious if there's any change of thinking around the capital policy for you guys.
I think we're holding firm that we believe that first we're always going to be conservatively capitalized I hope if something goes wrong but that's -- so we're going to be conservative.
But we have been looking and working very hard and looking at acquisitions and niche acquisitions.
And I know for some investors a quarter is forever.
For us our horizon is a little longer and we think we can deploy the capital.
If we can't we'll do something else with it.
But we think we can deploy the capital and -- but we're not going to close on a deal just to deploy the capital.
We've had those opportunities over the years but if we don't think it's a good investment we're going to keep it on the balance sheet.
So at this point we still believe we can deploy it and I know people aren't going to believe us until we do.
And if we can't -- the other thing is we're not going to deploy it just to deploy it.
If we can't do it then we'll deal with excess cash but we don't believe we're in that position today.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Great.
And then -- and I apologize if this has been hit on already.
I know you guys obviously gave pretty clear interest rate guidance.
Obviously who knows if interest rates ever go up.
I mean how do we think about that now with the sense -- maybe the client asset levels are up maybe $20 billion $30 billion or something like that from maybe the time you provided the guidance.
I'm thinking around like Analyst Day.
You've provided it before but I think you've articulated it well at the Analyst Day so I mean does that -- can we think about that changing all that much? Or the client assets continue to go up meaning in terms of the actual impact on 100 basis points? Or is it too early to think about changing that guidance? Yes I mean -- this is Paul Shoukry.
While the asset levels for the client asset levels are up since we gave that guidance if you look at the cash balances a lot of it's been redeployed into the market and obviously they don't benefit from market appreciation like the other assets do.
So actually cash balances have been pretty steady and when we do our projections it's still pretty constant with what we told you at around $150 million pretax impact on an annual basis when interest rates rise 100 basis points simultaneously.
That doesn't change much Doug.
Next question comes from the line of Christian Bolu (sic) [Chinedu Onwugbolu] with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just back to the M&amp;A strengths.
You mentioned some of the investments you've made in that business and I appreciate it's hard to predict but I would like some color on the backlog.
I mean is it contrary to the certain industry verticals? And how broad-based or lumpy is it? Well first it's always lumpy by definition.
And if you look across the industry it was a good quarter for M&amp;A so it certainly wasn't just us.
And why deals all tend to close near the same period of time? I don't know.
The factors still seem good both with equity market outlook and certainly achieved financing cost for M&amp;A.
The backlog's good and in fairness a lot of the activity in the segment both in underwritings and M&amp;A was kind in kind of a life-science based this year which we didn't participate in since we're not really in that space.
So it's pretty broad across our sectors.
They've all kind of contributed and I can't say it's focused on one area.
The backlog is still very strong and I don't think we're going to hit the level we hit this quarter every quarter but I think we anticipate a reasonable quarter this year.
And again timing is everything on these deals.
So we can't predict when any deal will close and it is lumpy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
It's strong so that's good.
Just a bit on Fixed Income.
You spoke into one of your initiatives being driven to asset manager client base from your traditional sort of bank client base.
So first just an update on that and how that's progressing.
And then secondly when you think about some of the rules impacting banks going forward like the LCR do you have any impact on the long-term demand say for munis from deposit institutions? I think on both initiatives that the focus is on extending the client base the total return client bases.
It's been a focus of ours and we're making good progress.
But as a percent of our revenue it's still small so we're very focused on it.
And I think as we look at some of the rules which they have changed for the banks and liquidity calculations for munis I think actually the new rules we're feeling very comfortable.
The demand will continue.
I think at a period of time there we wondered with some of the liquidity calculations based on the latest rules.
We think those business will be fine.
Now I can't tell you what's going to happen to regulation day-to-day because they keep changing but we feel good about those spaces.
The thing that's inhibiting that business the most right now is rates.
And most of the bank deals really aren't muni deals so there's a lot of tax.
They were holding on the taxable instruments in our bank franchise to...
Agencies.
Agencies particularly.
So the munis distribution is really separate from the bank space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly for me I guess on regulation.
I know you're not formally -- I believe you're not formally subject to kind of a set of liquidity rules at the bank or the HoldCo.
But just curious if you have us a sense of where you would be on the LCR? And if the regulators care at all about that number for you guys.
Every calculation we've seen and done as we've gone forward is if you look at our capital and liquidity position under any rules we're still well over so...
Research Division</strong> Even on liquidity? Liquidity too.
We're extremely liquid right now.
So as the previous question said in excess capital it's not just capital.
It's in cash.
So we're very liquid right now and it's kind of nice to be liquid when there's opportunities and day-to-day fluctuations but we certainly have more cash than we need to operate this business.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
And I'm Leung for Steven.
Just had a quick question.
Some of the bigger banks that have reported earnings this quarter have noticed that they've seen -- given the loosening set underwriting standards they've seen some more aggressive pricing which has resulted in lower loan pricing.
Just wondering what you've seen that's kind of given the opposite effect at RJ bank.
Yes we've not seen that.
We've actually experienced a little bit of the opposite this last quarter.
Actually I would say that secondary prices on corporate loans have actually come down maybe 100 to 150 basis points and I would say that the market plays both banks and institutional investors that invest in commercial loans has been pushing back against the declining margin and we've seen improvement in that space not huge but some improvements so...
And in fairness we play in a small segment on the C&amp;I loans with a certain credit rating and -- so they could be getting some pressure at the high end.
And the risks here are -- or the risks...
We have a very less risk within our risk less but -- yes.
And the next question comes the line of Devin Ryan with GMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig in a bit more on the recruiting momentum and I guess the backlog.
I mean I guess outside of contracts that have been rolling off of the wire houses I wanted to get some perspective on what else has changed to make the recruiting back drop so strong right now.
And I know that you guys have done a great job upgrading your technology and adviser offering over the past handful of years.
So just trying to get some perspective around how much might -- maybe the environment versus how much you guys think is Raymond James specific based on what you're seeing.
I thought you said they wanted to because of us and not because of -- the -- I think honestly you get in the momentum plays in recruiting and there's a number of factors it's not just one.
First I do think that our culture has been very steady and a lot of advisers that grew up in regional firms like ours that are at the wire house.
They went to the wire houses by waking up and their card changed.
Those deals have rolled off that seat to find a place like ours and that certainly has been a big factor.
The second piece is I think that other people did even grow up at the wire houses as many banks and private institutionalize our clients through credit and relationships and also eliminating lower accounts and putting pressure on fees and teaming with people that like their semi-independence and then grown up and looking for alternatives and we're certainly a very very good alternative.
And I think the other 2 factors that have helped us certainly our technology which we believe is competitive with any of the big banks or custodial firms.
It's never perfect but we think some areas we excel in especially when it comes to the advisers' desktop that our technology is certainly is not a limiting factor in many cases against even some of the bigger firms a positive.
And last but not least I think the Morgan Keegan combination added a kind of renewed interest in us given our size and scope and just made us more people more market aware.
Our surveys always say if you leave where do you go? And we do blind surveys and we always finish on top.
And other competitors are there too but whether it's a good destination and all those factors plus the recruiting momentum has just added to it.
So our focus is windows don't stay open forever in recruiting.
You can look at the market times where it gets very active and then where it's slows down.
Right now it's an active time and we're just in a great position so we're trying to take advantage of it by just getting as many good advisers as we can during this process.
We're also opening up in regions we didn't recruit in.
California it's so far away for us and now we've got boots on the ground there in terms of management.
We're expanding it.
We've increased the number of advisers by multiples but we're still a small factor in that market.
And the same in the Northeast.
So we just really stayed out of New York and the employee side and surrounding areas and we've grown those businesses.
So we've opened up.
I think the status are there are more advisers between the Philadelphia and Boston and the rest of the country and we weren't active -- really active in those markets.
We are now.
So that's also opened up our recruiting availability.
So there's a lot of things going on that is driving the number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful color.
And then just staying on maybe the technology side.
I apologize if you addressed this.
But the low in technology investments within product line that you guys mentioned in the release.
Can you give any perspective around the magnitude of that? And how much that helped? And then did that imply there's going to be some catch-up -- there could be a catch-up quarter.
I'm just trying to understand the comment in relation to the impact.
No I think what happened is that -- I'll oversimplify it but it's human nature a little bit too.
So we've been on a fast pace.
We're a little ahead of budget in terms of spending and then slowed it down in the fourth quarter as projects ended to come within the budget.
And our budget for next year we think that range were giving you of that around $65 million-ish is the right -- it's our budget.
Technology people like to spend their budget.
They usually don't want to give back dollars.
They've always got 20 more projects to do that you cut from the budget.
So we've increased our technology spend.
We're focused.
We got great delivery and I just think it was 2 factors: one was a little budget catch-up; secondly the projects rolled off so it's just a matter of "Did you buy the software in September or October or some of the products? Or do you have a consultant show-up at September 15 or October 1?" And it's not really much of what was the budget catch-up.
It's not a deferral.
I think they spent their budget through the year and I'm sure they're going to do everything they can to spend their budget this year.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question on the trends you guys seeing on fixed income trading.
And I think you guys have done a great job on your Investor Day a couple of times now describing the nature of that business who your clients are and the environment in which we could actually see some recovery there.
I was curious to get a better sense of whether or not you think it's the shape of the yield curve for one of the level of interest rate that matters here because I think increasingly the content of the issues become the what the rates of the short end might go up a little on action that would affect yield curve so just curious how you think your fixed income trading business aside from the trading profits fees would perform in that environment.
Yes it's a factor of everything.
I think just gross interest rates.
No one's just forgetting the yield curve.
No one's rushing to buy 30-year bonds anywhere and that's where you get paid the best.
So certainly a general rise in interest rates and QE makes the long -- go up a little bit.
I think it's helpful.
Secondly certainly the yield curve is a positive.
So flat yield curve will not be a positive across the total industry.
And the third is then the biggest factor is all solely on commissions.
I mean a lot of our trading profits are just a little piece on inventories returning quickly.
If there's no volume it's harder to do.
And certainly if there's no volume there is commission.
So in October we -- the early weeks trading profits are down a little bit because we had good days and bad days but I think well-managed.
The commission volume was way up as people looked whether it was the market or movements in -- because of changes in TIMCO and other things there was activity.
Who knows what's driving it but volatility is a big help on the commission line and if we manage our inventories well I think we'll do fine.
So it's multiple factors.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That was my follow-up on the commissions and how the increased volatility in October has impacted the Fixed Income Business because it sounds like it's been a fairly good lump on that front.
Yes the front end was very very good.
So we'll see where it settles out whether it will continue.
Now again if rates stay flattish and nothing moves and there's no market for us I think you're going to see a slowdown in commissions where people are just waiting again.
So they like volatility.
And the trading businesses the sales businesses all like volatility.
The same with equities.
They like the volatility.
It's people picking up the phone and making calls and making bets and without it people sit on the sidelines and just wait and watch so a little volatility will be helpful.
If you look at last year I think we really didn't have much.
Research Division</strong> Yes makes sense.
And my second question was around the asset management business.
Just looks like you guys obviously don't break out the net flows in that $60-ish-or-somewhat billion number but it sounded like -- it looked like you're just backing up the market.
The flows were softer.
Maybe even a little bit of outflows over the course of the quarter.
I guess a is that a fair assessment? And b maybe you can talk a little bit about the source and your outlook for flows and asset management business.
Yes so our flows for the year were good.
I mean they were probably half our gains so -- and we've had good flows.
The only thing that impacted the fourth quarter and the asset management business is again even though the S&amp;P was flattish small caps were down 5% depending on how you measure it and we've got and equal especially the large concentration of small caps.
And mid-cap good product but that's in international and those products weren't in favor.
So they probably got a little sequentially hit in that quarter in that segment.
But long term I don't see any major issue.
We tend to -- the segment is a whole outside of Eagle which had a good year in recruiting.
A little more outflows not net but in the normal.
The net flows were positive.
The asset management segment the internal part has been very strong because of recruiting so just to get more advisers.
Those advisers choose to put some of the assets on our platforms and that grows.
So we're not negative on it even though it was again choppy at the end there because of small caps.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Presenters are there any closing remarks? No.
I just want to thank you all for joining and it's great to have that you're in.
We got about 5 minutes of celebration and then go on to the next meeting.
We keep operating the company.
So thanks for your support.
We're focused on our continued growth and appreciate you being on the call.
Thank you and this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Raymond James Financial Quarterly Analyst Call.
(Operator Instructions) Certain statements made in the press release and comments made in this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives; business prospects; anticipating savings; financial results including expenses earnings liquidity cash flow and capital expenditures; industry or market conditions; demand for and pricing of our products; acquisitions divestitures and recruiting pipeline; fixed income business outlook; anticipated results of litigation and regulatory developments or general economic conditions.
In addition words such as believes expects anticipates intends plans estimates projects forecasts and future or conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statement that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions.
Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements and urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q which are available on raymondjames.com and the SECs website at www.sec.gov.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made.
The press release and comments made in this conference call may also include non-GAAP financial measures.
An indication of and a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures accompanies the press release which is available under the Investor Relations page of our website at www.raymondjames.com.
An audio replay of the conference call will be available until 5 o'clock PM Eastern Standard Time on July 15 2014 under the Investor Relations page of our website at www.raymondjames.com.
Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Paul Reilly Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
And most things seem sunny here today as we report our quarterly net revenues of $1.2 billion a record pre-tax of $179 million net income for the quarter of $116.6 million or $0.81 per diluted share.
This marks our 104th consecutive quarter of profitability a record we're proud of especially in our industry.
We believe we had a strong start to the fiscal year this fiscal year '14.
Now if you just look at the stats from quarter-to-quarter and net revenues up 5% for the preceding quarter pre-tax income up 10% client assets under administration up 5% youd think we just take a victory lap and just say what a great quarter it was and it was a very good quarter.
But there was a also a number of favorable items that all just happened to hit this quarter that made a strong quarter look from an ongoing operating basis maybe a little stronger than it really was.
We did earn these one-time fees but we can't expect them to recur every quarter.
So we'll spend some time on the call giving color on those.
Overall the Private Client Group and Asset Management had very good quarters.
I'll characterize the Equity Capital Markets Group having a good quarter.
The Bank as usual performed solid which I would call an okay quarter.
And we still had headwinds in public finance and fixed income due to a challenging market especially in the institutional commission area but bolstered by strong trading profits.
We also had a very good Other quarter.
And so we're going to talk about some of those items.
Those items made our margin 15% and our comp ratio of 68% look a little better than they probably are on a pure operating basis and we'll talk about that.
As we told you we're committed to reach those goals from an operating basis on a sustainable basis by the end of the fourth quarter this year and we're still committed to that.
Overall in this segment Private Client Group was pretty much good news all around revenue up 5% sequentially over last quarter pre-tax up an 11%.
We saw an improvement in margins but probably more importantly for the business as we look forward we had record Private Client Group assets under administration of $423 billion up 5%.
Our advisor productivity continued to rise and really strong recruiting pipeline in the Private Client Group.
So all told we think we have good momentum in that segment.
Under Asset Management we had record net revenue of $96 million which is up 19% over the last quarter and a record pre-tax of $31.8 million.
Our assets under discretionary management were up 8%.
So those results were both affected by the market appreciation but also strong net inflows of assets into our Asset Management Group.
However as we talked about in the release we had a $9.8 million performance management fee of which half really impacts our bottom line.
And it's not that we don't earn those we just don't earn them every quarter and this one was of greater magnitude than probably at this time last year.
The Bank had very good loan growth almost $500 million in net loan growth for the quarter.
Our criticized loans decreased.
On the positive the loan loss provision was muted for the quarter due to a combination of a number of factors.
We had some loan pay-offs of criticized loans.
We sold some loans that we got [hard for] [ph] that had some reserves.
We didn't like the credit quality as much.
And we had improved credit metrics.
So despite the loan growth the loan provision was down from a normal rate.
The loan growth will help offset the interest compression which we're still experiencing at the Bank.
On the Capital Markets side ECM had a good month off the record of the last quarter and certainly off the record of the M&amp;A quarter a year ago but very very solid results really from good financing markets and also we talked about the commission that we had our Analysts Best Picks sales which actually drove commissions for the quarter.
The fixed income markets remain challenging.
We had a rough quarter for institutional commissions and public finance deals which I think the industry had.
We see that market still challenged but with strong trading profits both from a good retail activity and we stayed in the market I think as people have lowered inventories and have de-leveraged we've been in the markets and continue to generate good trading profits despite lower commission levels.
We talked about Other which had a very good quarter had some of the cautions.
On our private equity side we had $10 million of gains.
$6 million were non-consolidated $5.5 million gain on the sale of our Jefferson County Sewers auction rate securities.
Again both of those are earned but lumpier in this quarter.
And also our tax rate was down.
Our tax rate due to some refunds due and a change in our state filing position in the state and as the markets go up we get the COLI benefit.
And we're looking forward that the tax rate we think is closer to 37% target tax rate given a good market.
But this quarter it was lower than that.
So that added to the earnings for the quarter.
So all in all a good start to the fiscal year.
We're very pleased with our positioning.
I'm going to turn this over to Jeff and talk a little about after Jeff speaks kind of the outlook and the segments in this quarter.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
I have a very similar outlook on how the quarter went.
We're very pleased in general with the start to the year.
We had some very big positives to take away from this quarter.
The asset levels both under administration and management certainly give us a good headwind or a good tailwind into the next quarter.
And equally important in the release as Paul mentioned that fee-based assets surpassed $150 billion which is obviously a big driver of our ongoing securities commissions and fees.
Paul mentioned the Bank loan growth that's faster than I know we had forecast in the last call or two.
Production did pick up a little bit but pay-offs lowered a little bit as well.
So a combination of those two factors are giving us a good start there.
You would expect with that kind of loan growth a little larger provision I know.
But again given some of the pay-offs and upgrades of some of the previously criticized assets we continue to experience low provision expense.
The recruiting pipelines and other positive takeaway and Paul mentioned that probably again as we look into the coming quarters it's as active as it's been in some time.
And then I think the overall expense control particularly in IT based on what we know today we think that this level of IT expenditure this low $60 million type number for the quarter is about a run rate.
Obviously if any regulatory requirements change or some competitive pressures et cetera that could change.
But based on what we know today that's probably a pretty good run rate.
But this quarter wasn't without a couple of negatives.
The fixed income markets still aren't cooperating.
On the commission front we've managed to continue to realize pretty good trading profits.
We're not sure if that's going to be sustainable over the rest of the year or not but so far so good on that front.
And then the other negative I guess in the interest of fair disclosure is the tightening spreads both in the Bank and in our overall earnings on client cash balances around the firm largely to Bank suite program as those contracts continue to burn off from prior years and get renewed at lower rates.
Paul mentioned the comp ratio of 68%.
That's actually still a good target for the year I think for us.
We had a very good quarter this quarter and some of these what you would call some of the unusual items that kicked in the revenues that caused the ratio to look a little lower than otherwise have been this quarter.
But that's still I think a good target for us for the year if we can keep it at the 68% level down nicely from where we were last fiscal year.
If you look at the margins in our businesses in your Private Client Group we talked about having a 9% target for the year.
Well they exceeded that obviously in the first quarter 9.2%.
Some of that was due to nice revenue growth which should continue given the equity market lift going into this next quarter but also the expense control side like I mentioned which largely falls into the Private Client Group segment in our public reporting.
Capital Markets had a 13.8% margin for the quarter which is not bad given the fixed income environment.
So Equity Capital Markets is doing okay.
I probably wouldn't describe it as hitting home runs but they're keeping busy and have a reasonable amount of business.
Asset management had a 33.2% margin.
So that performance fee that we've mentioned about half of which is ours on bottom line have a pre-tax line helped them surpass the 30% margin target for the quarter.
So we had these things.
And then the other Paul mentioned the auction rate securities will get $5.5 million gain from that.
And we had some private equity help which we had almost every quarter but this one may be a little larger than our average excluding the (inaudible) transaction last year.
But we've had some of that pretty much on a recurring basis.
And with those things all rolled together helped the company to achieve its 15% target for the year.
These are still our targets for the year.
I mean we're not saying okay we've already hit the 15% so let's change it to 15.5%.
I mean we still think that the 68% comp ratio and the margin targets we gave you for each business and the 15% for the overall firm are still where we'd like to be on a run rate basis at the end of the fiscal year.
Our tax rate in terms of bottom line obviously was a help.
Paul gave you the right guidance.
I think 37% is kind of what we would counsel you to use in modeling going forward for this year.
If the market stays high we'll continue to benefit from the non-taxable gains in our corporate-owned license portfolio however and then obviously the other way in our market correction.
I think that covers most of the big picture comments.
We did do a comparison to sort of the analyst models to see where we were way off-base relative to the average of the model.
And actually we're pretty close on a lot of them and they're all very explainable which we've already talked about.
The performance fee caused us to be over in investment advisory fees.
Trading profits were better than most we're anticipating.
In the other income we had the private equity gain and the ARS redemption proceeds.
So those kind of where the differentiating factors on the revenue side.
The one that stands out a little bit is the account and service fees that actually declined slightly from last quarter.
There's really a couple of reasons.
One is I would say September was abnormally high as we did some catch-up entries in that quarter that we didn't really elaborate on it and seen that material at the time related to some of the Morgan Keegan accounts that we brought over.
So we're comparing to sort of an abnormally high.
And the other part of that is I mentioned the compressing spread on client cash balances in our Bank suite program.
Remember that's a fee income to us not interest earnings to us from these outside banks.
And that did compress several basis points this quarter to last while the balance has stayed relatively flat.
So that actually caused a slight decline as well.
On the expense side there were only a couple of items that were significantly off.
Obviously the bank loan loss provision which continues to come in at lower levels than would be normally indicated by the loan growth.
And other expense was up a little higher.
There's a couple of things.
We had a little more legal expense.
That wasn't a big driver.
The bigger driver is we're doing a better job now of estimating and spreading across the four quarters of the year some of the valuation adjustments that happen annually in the tax credit funds that we consolidate into our books.
We usually we've had a spike in the March quarter related to that but we can sort of estimate them pretty well.
So there is no reason for us to have that spike.
We can make that ratable throughout the year and I will also remind you that virtually all of that comes out to non-controlling interests.
So it's not really our item to the pre-tax line but it does distort the other expense line item.
The one other thing I'll mention is for those who looked at the balance sheet saw our assets decline by almost about $1.3 billion from last quarter to this quarter.
The real reason for that is at the end of December we undertook a project to move about $1.75 billion of client cash balances out of what we call our client interest program on our own balance sheet into the Bank suite program.
We hadn't been able to do that earlier because we were up against capacity constraints in the Bank suite program.
But we had some new banks join and some existing banks agreed to take larger deposits.
So now we are able to accommodate clients' wishes for FDIC insurance and move another group of accounts off of our balance sheet into this Bank suite program.
So you saw us come out of the brokerage client deposits on the liability side and generally out of the segregated assets or the reserve account on the asset side.
So that plus the bank loan growth were really the two big shifts in the balance sheet from last quarter to this quarter.
Thanks Jeff.
Just in terms of little bit of our view of the outlook Private Client Group certainly with their assets up 5% should start off the quarter with some tailwinds and the same with Asset Management with a 9% increase in those assets were the new record of almost $450 billion of assets under administration and $60 billion of assets under management.
However we don't expect our performance fees that usually come at the end of the year to be next quarter.
So as you look at Asset Management you can adjust those expectations.
The Bank loan growth was good.
We never know on pay-offs to decline.
I think we give you direction if something else happens in that quarter.
But overall this is a very competitive market but we've been able to grow loans.
But there is a pressure on spreads.
It will continue.
And I'll talk about interest rates a little bit more.
The provision has been low but it won't remain low forever if we grow loans.
So we've had again improving credit quality that's reduced the provision.
But at some point that provision as we grow loans is going to have to come up to match loan growth.
The good news is credit quality continues to improve.
On the Capital Markets side the Equity Capital Markets the overall market volumes remain challenged.
We've done well.
We've had a good lift this quarter by the Analysts' Best Picks.
The financing markets appear positive and deals should still get done as long as the markets are good.
M&amp;A backlog looks good for us.
I would call it strong although traditionally January and the first quarter are generally weaker in M&amp;A markets because a lot of deals get done by year-end.
But as long as the markets stay good I think the Equity Capital Markets outlook remains positive.
Fixed income is just challenged with low short-term rates and the expectation of long rates to increase is just leaving a lot of investors on the sidelines watching.
And those commission levels still remain challenged and I think will for some time.
The offset has been very good trading profits.
But if rates start to rise and if commissions don't improve volumes it will be hard to maintain those kind of trading profits in that environment.
So we stay very very cautious.
Public finance issuance was down last quarter.
We got a raise in the top 10 public finance issuers as the whole market was down.
We expect it to improve.
But when governments which we think have the need to finance start financing we don't know.
So we're cautious in the short term but more positive in the medium to long term.
So interest rates will rise I think and the question is when.
We're well positioned to benefit from them but until they do especially with all the cash in the market I think that spreads will continue to be challenging.
We thought we had some relief from them last quarter.
They look like they're getting to hurt again.
And again rates will rise some day as our position we don't when.
So in this environment spreads will continue to be challenging.
Cost discipline is very good.
We talked about that through the whole Morgan Keegan integration and you could see them show up in numbers last quarter and this quarter.
And we are committed to managing that and you can see it in the run rate.
So overall we think the markets look constructive.
There could be a correction in the Equity Capital Markets but we believe the economy is in reasonable shape and expect constructive market but again cautious given the reasons we talked about there.
Overall we feel great about our position.
I think the integration is behind us.
It's great to see we are acting as one team and we are operating as one team within a greater leadership.
Our position is good.
We feel great about our people and our firm overall.
So with that I'll turn it back to Judy and we'll take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steven Chubak from Nomura.
On the last earnings call you noted that revenues at the Bank had recovered to $90 million level as items were I'm using your words abnormally penalized in the past including SBA loan mark-downs as well as FX movements had reversed.
This quarter Bank NII was flattish and total revenues at the Bank came down $7 million.
And I was hoping if you could clarify what drove the revenue decline this quarter.
Steven this is Steve Raney.
There're some things in other income that in effect really went against us in the December quarter relative to the September quarter.
It was a rather significant loan fee that was recognized in the September quarter resulting from a loan pay-off in the Canadian portfolio that we bought a couple of years ago.
The SBA loans that you referenced the lower cost of market adjustment there was a big positive back in the September quarter.
We didn't see a similar improvement in that mark in the December quarter.
That was about $1.4 million difference quarter-over-quarter.
The foreign exchange impact and the strengthening U.S.
dollar relative to Canada had about $3 million impact.
We've already talked about the provision expense.
There was about $3.5 million change quarter-over-quarter.
Our Bank and life insurance had a $0.5 million difference quarter-over-quarter.
So all those things combined resulted in the other income line being dramatically lower than the September quarter.
So our core business remained very stable.
As we had already mentioned the net interest income the small decrease in net interest margin was offset by higher average earning assets.
But our loans on an average basis were up about $200 million.
Point to point it was $500 million.
So hopefully that clarifies the difference for you on the other income line.
And I guess digging into the commercial lending side in particular we're clearly seeing competition intensify and a general loosening of underwriting standards across the industry.
I didn't know if you could speak to some of the competitive dynamics you're seeing in the market and your outlook for commercial loan growth given what's been a historically conservative or disciplined approach to underwriting? Yeah.
That dynamic has really been in place now for a better part of two years.
We continue to be extremely selective.
We're really under no pressure at all to really grow loans or loosen our standards in order to grow loans.
There's been enough volume and there's actually been an increase I would say in the M&amp;A markets that have driven some of the transactions.
We did have our most productive quarter.
We did 89 transactions this last quarter.
The higher watermark was the June quarter of last year that had 79 transactions.
So yeah in our unique model there is still enough availability of new transactions that meet our credit standards.
So I know we grew loans over 5% this last quarter.
I don't think that pace will continue.
But we're more optimistic just given the economic environment and deal flow that we're currently seeing and were going to do that without loosening our standards.
Transitioning to the Capital Markets side we saw that revenues were flat quarter-on-quarter and the contribution from some of the higher margin areas such as [inaudible] trading profits and M&amp;A results are flat sequentially.
And yet the segment margin did decline 300 basis points.
I didn't know if you could speak to some of the expense accrual trend that we're seeing within this segment in particular.
I think it's the two things.
First you get comp true-ups during the year-end which are harder to predict and M&amp;A so we kind of I mean with the equity capital markets.
So in the first quarter I think the P&amp;L is a little harder.
And secondly September quarter I think was our second best M&amp;A quarter.
And M&amp;A we tend to have better margins.
We had a decent December quarter.
It wasn't a bad quarter but September was a very big quarter for us.
And that drives comp down.
So you are probably seeing most of the delta really in comp margins that drive that.
Again its a transaction based - a lot of transactions in that business.
So it's a little lumpier.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Harris from Wells Fargo Securities.
So you guys called out the recruiting pipeline and just kind of curious to get your thoughts what does a good recruiting year look like for Raymond James in terms of advisor additions? And I know you guys historically tend to focus on quality not quantity.
So just wondering if you could share a little bit of what we might expect for the balance of the year.
Recruiting and net recruiting are two numbers.
And I don't know if I can quantify honestly.
I think the goal is actually $75 million in our businesses in each segment in our Private Client Group and our employee and independent contracted groups at similar targets roughly that run rate of new recruiting.
We also have rolled out our new RAA.
It's on a new business but I guess the reformatted business that we're hoping to add to those numbers but it's early days.
I think it's allowed us to fill our recruiting pipeline between getting people in and bringing them over.
So that's kind of the run rate number we're targeting but we're just as focused on the net number of assets the way they keep growing is not to lose them and our retention has been very good.
And so we're focused not really on the numbers but we really look at assets.
And when recruiting we're also reinvigorating the training effort in the firm partially in response to some of the succession planning for ageing financial advisors but also we've had some success with that in prior years and it was a good time to get that going again.
And one follow-up question on the Bank maybe for Steve.
I'm wondering if you could share maybe your NIM target for the year.
And then in addition to that given the puts and takes you guys have with loan growth and pay-offs do you feel comfortable that you could maintain this level of revenue for the balance of the year or do you think it could go potentially higher? Chris it is hard to predict that.
I mean as it has played out the NIM compression has slowed but there's still pressure on it.
So we do think that over the balance of this year we're going to continue to see net interest margins come in but maybe at a slower pace than you saw NIMs come in year-over-year over 50 basis points.
We don't think we're going to see that level of compression.
I would say maybe another 20 to 25 basis points over the next year is maybe kind of a good number offset hopefully by higher average earning assets and more loans.
So I know there's been some volatility in our other income line.
The net interest income line we're focused on all of it but there are some things that are really outside of our control on some of the other income line.
I'd like to think that we're going to be actually able to grow net interest income slightly.
So therefore the increase in earning assets would more than offset the net interest margin compression.
But I would say there's risk in that prediction just because there is a lot of unknown and uncertainty.
That's a hard one to predict.
It looked like we were going to get some relief from that and that's come back in and who knows what else went out.
So we're subject to the markets.
But today from a standing start which seemed to be off every time we predict the market has moved another way.
It looks like compression will still get some of that light compression.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey from KBW.
Just to dig in a little bit deeper on the trading gains I appreciate the color you gave.
Can you just give us a little bit more clarity on precisely on what securities experienced the meaningful gains and is this going to be a sustainable trend or it's just due to higher volumes in those securities or is there any kind of one-time issue? Yeah most of the trading profits have come through the muni book.
Certainly that was true in last quarter.
So there are two pieces to it.
One is the retail activity was okay just because I think people have repositioned giving longer from shorter which we think is a good thing for retail clients.
They're going shorter.
And then in the institutional side of the market if you talk to people a lot of people got frightened in June with the rate corrections which none of us liked but we're pretty steady.
And we've stayed in the markets.
I think people have backed out a little bit.
And since we're turning inventories really twice the weeks we feel pretty comfortable in our position.
And we have some rates the 10-year came in during the quarter which anytime that happens when you own stuff you make a little more money on it.
So overall that's where it's coming from.
And again the concern is that as commission volumes stay low that that's going to be under pressure.
January same trends continued both on conditions and the trading profits are pretty good.
I don't know how long that holds up.
In the past Joel we have guided in the $12 million to $15 million I think per quarter in trading profits.
I don't necessarily think we would change that guidance going forward.
This past quarter we had some additional help from some emerging markets trading.
They all were going in the right direction this time on top of the majority of it which was provided by fixed income.
The diluted share count continues to rise.
I think it's up a little under 3% year-on-year and I know you guys have historically looked to buy back stock when you're at about 1.5 times book.
But has there been any sort of change in how you're thinking about this given the valuation of the stock? And then how should we think about future share count growth? Well it's something as we've grown we've had share count growth.
A lot of people have asked us about capital.
We like to deploy the capital in the growth areas in the business.
And we're consistently looking over opportunities but we're conservative and we're so analyzing kind of what the options are there.
So I'd say you're going to continue unless we do something differently to see a little bit of dilution in the share count.
We'll look at opportunities to deploy capital and when we determine we have excess capital what we'll do with this.
Your next question comes from the line of Christian Bolu from Credit Suisse.
On the fixed income business by your words activity remains sluggish there.
Just curious on your thoughts on resource allocations in that division.
Should we expect that to be resized in the light of weaker industry trends? We went through a significant resizing when we combined Morgan Keegan with Raymond James.
We sized it hopefully for a growing market.
And it obvious that didn't happen.
We made some cuts.
And then again last year we sized it.
So I feel very comfortable with size.
It's a pretty variable model in terms of costs.
We do have salaries but they're generally low and it's really more of a variable cost model in general.
We have some fixed cost guarantees basically from the acquisition that come off in April.
And so I think the sizing of the fixed income business for now we're very comfortable.
We've very very good people.
And we've proven in the operations both in the top market.
In June I think we outperformed by losing less in trading profits.
And that's due both to our very good traders and our very good salespeople.
And I think we've shown that we've outperformed in this sluggish market.
So I feel good about the people we have but that model is pretty variable.
I mean obviously if there is a dramatic change or you think you're down for a extended period of time you ought to look at cost.
But we tend to rise temporary downturns through and done over higher in big boom times.
So we're more long-term player than trying to adjust for short-term profitability.
And further to your question of resource allocation we're running that business on about half the inventory levels as we were running it at the peak in these kind of averaging between $500 million to $600 million in total outstanding where it was well over $1 billion at its peak before we further streamlined that.
It's not using as much capital in that regard.
Just moving on to retail you sound very constructive.
And in light of some of the positive comments we've had from your peers I was just curious as to what you and the team are seeing in terms of retail engagements just so far this year.
There is no doubt there has been a movement in the equities.
And if you look at our economist review it's a rather overweight equities and underweight fixed income in general for the individual investor.
So you're seeing some movement in there.
I'd get concerned when the retail investors are chasing a positive market.
You don't want them to get into the peak.
On the other side if you look at retail it is not positive on the equity markets.
And in fact our December sentiment actually went down under 30% for the investors who were positive about the short-term equity market.
So you're seeing a mixed bag.
I think there is movements in the equities.
Some of that is the push out of fixed income a little bit.
And looking for dividend yield some of it is watching the rise in the market.
So there's definitely inflows into equities out of fixed income.
When you look at our client base and their mix of investments it has shifted a little bit toward equities but we attribute most of that to appreciation and portfolios not actual money movements.
Can you give broader client cash management strategy just in the context of kind of the excess capital you're sitting on what would drive you to the more opportunistic in terms of deploying that client cash within the Bank? We look at that pretty regularly.
It's hard for us to do much different than we're doing without taking either credit or duration risk.
And even a modest amount of that just seems like in stressed times whenever something can go wrong it's a little bit of our risk aversion that's causing us from trying to catch bigger spreads on that client cash.
But we have looked at exactly what you're talking about on several occasions.
And maybe to some modest extent to the extent that we can find acceptable investments on the asset side.
And we know a lot of the competitors and we could see in the releases of middle firm securities to raise their spreads.
We try not to take those rate risk and we've always been conservative.
Our strategy is like that a little slower or not earning as much.
But when markets move we look a little smarter.
Again we tend to be on the conservative long-term side.
So we do some of that to be modest.
We're more worried about long-term impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
A couple of things here first on competition.
Jeff can you remind us on how much of the RSU amortization from the Morgan Keegan deal that I think expires in April amounts to? So kind of in dollar terms how much will sort of this drop-off in amortization for you starting I guess in May? Yeah.
We've got some RSU amortization but most of those were three year not two year.
But we've got some management.
So it's really what ties some of the guaranteed payouts and things we're using in place of RSUs.
I want to say it amounts to on an annualized about $4 million or so.
I remember the number that was given to us by fixed income.
And how much of that drops off in three years? In three years it'll be a bigger number.
It's running about $6 million to $7 million a year right now in the RSU amortization.
Can you talk a little bit about which client you're seeing most pressure in and what type of broad environment do we need to see exploration and fixed income results? Well the bulk of our fixed income business I mean our really franchise is in the muni business and the mid-bank in place that are very very strong.
We're in the corporate business.
So it's more of an accommodation business for us.
I wouldn't call it our pure profit drivers.
So it's that space both the bank mid-tier banks and their investments and loans and the muni business that really drive our levels in our fixed income practice as well as our retail.
Did you see an improvement in those areas or what kind of environment do you guys need to see? I don't know if there are one or two metrics but whether it flows into the new funds or steeper yield curve or what kind of environment should yield better results? Definitely a steeper yield curve and volatility.
I guess you'd say the worst part for that business would be a slow steady creep of rates where people just wait and wait and wait.
And the best environment is when the rates jerk up and it shocks people.
It's bad on trading profits maybe for the short-term but long-term people move and your commission volumes go up and you make it back.
So we'd rather see steep rate increases in a slow steady couple of basis points every month.
That's kind of the torture environment for fixed income business.
So steep and volatility is good for fixed income.
The best news is when they're doing bad the equity markets are doing really well and the overall firm does better.
But definitely rates have to move.
They're absolutely low.
And so rates moving up help that business to reposition their securities portfolios.
When you look at consolidated net interest income for the whole entity and that's a pretty decent source of net interest income for you guys.
So can you talk about the balances you saw in the December quarter and maybe what you're seeing for January? Yeah.
We're not seeing a lot of movement in balances.
But we have to look at jointly with securities base lending at the Bank because that's kind of an alternative with sort of a lot of the same purposes.
On a combined basis they're certainly growing.
But SPL at the Bank is growing faster than traditional margin lending at the brokers firm.
The reason that the net interest earnings were up a little bit over the last quarter in the Private Client Group segment was we talked last quarter about a number of fee changes that were being implemented around the firm that would lead to some increased revenues this year kind of being phased in over the course of the year.
But one of the changes that went in on October 1 was a change in our margin schedule.
And that did have some immediate impact to the tune of $1.5 million to $2 million per quarter which did show up in this first quarter in the Private Client Group net interest spread.
Some of the other fees will hit some of the other line items over the course of the year as they are phased in January and April.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Allen from Evercore.
Just wanted to ask about the Private Client Group margin.
I realized sort of the 9% target in one quarter into the year.
You don't want to revise that yet.
But moving forward just given what client assets have ended the growth in fee-based assets and what seems to be a decent recruiting pipeline is there any reason not to expect incremental margin expansion from here? The impact to recruiting is you got to charge against income too.
So as you amortize those payments so as you recruit it's actually a drag on short-term margins.
So obviously if the market continues to go up you're going to get margin extension on the revenue.
But I think it's kind of early to call.
We changed our grid and our employee size this year and those effects are still coming through.
We've done a number of fee changes that are still coming through.
So I wouldn't declare one quarter as the number that we should live off.
I think we got to look that play out.
Markets are good.
The $1.75 billion in customer cash is moved to the Bank suite program.
Is there any economic benefit? It's roughly a push in terms of economics.
Otherwise we might have had second thoughts.
But it is where clients want it.
But it does move the revenues on that money from what was interest earnings to us in our segregated asset account moves it to now the fee income from the other banks.
So it'll be a couple of million dollar year shift from one item to the other but in terms of economics to the overall premise about a push.
I know you guys mentioned a bunch of the special items.
Any color in terms of what those numbers would look like ex the items? Obviously there's some compensation that's included with the performance fee in private equity.
So I'm just trying to get a handle on that.
I mean where we'd hoped over the course of the year remember I said to get us down to that 68% type comp ratio was going to require some revenue help.
We'd like to see that as an operating revenues not special items.
And we're starting to see that in some of the divisions.
So certainly it was a big improvement from last year's average and trending the right way but it probably wasn't quite as good as it looked but we are still hopeful that we can get to that level on a sustainable run rate by the end of the fiscal year.
The cash balance is still over $2.5 billion.
And once you axe out the corporate debt it came to over $9 in cash per share.
And I realized you guys are going to be reassessing capital and thinking about investing for growth.
I'm just wondering if there's a minimum cash level that's kind of necessary to firm so this seems pretty high at present.
We have talked about this in some of our conferences.
We do have cash targets.
All that cash that you see in our balance sheet is not ours.
A lot of it is client cash at the Bank for example that's just not invested yet.
We actually have at our corporate about a little over $1 billion that we call free cash.
We do have internal targets that are somewhat less than that.
We kind of set that as a percent of overall shareholders' equity.
So it gravitates up over time.
But by those measures we have some excess cash and capital at this point in time not huge numbers but in the couple of hundred million dollars range.
And that's kind of what we said publicly.
Your next question comes from the line of Devin Ryan from JMP Securities.
Within the equity underwriting business the revenues there were a bit softer than I would have expected given the strength that we've seen across the street.
So just curious to know if there is anything maybe that you guys experienced from a sector exposure perspective and maybe waited on your results a bit and then just how to characterize your backlog specifically in the equity issuance business? I wouldn't have characterized them as soft but we play extremely well in certain sectors the REIT the downstream energy space.
There's number of other spaces growing technology healthcare and those markets are all differential depending on who is financing what deals at what time and what space.
So I would say our backlog is good.
I think I fell good about what they did in the quarter and I think the backlog looks good in a good market.
So when certain sectors hit or certain areas we specialize in and the markets grew were better.
And when other sectors do better maybe it will take up a few more deals.
I thought they did a good job in the quarter and I think the outlook looks good.
I would tell you I feel good about the business.
And as long as the market is open I think they're fine.
They weren't record but they were good.
And M&amp;A wasn't record but it was good.
And I think the backlog is good.
We'll just have to see.
And M&amp;A especially is lumpy.
So when they lose you get big fees.
And then just another question on capital allocation and thoughts I mean from an acquisition perspective are you guys seeing any interesting opportunity? I'm curious to know what the volume looks like of opportunities that are coming to you guys in this market and then are there any segments specifically? You guys highlighted in the past Asset Management where you've actually done a couple of deals but are there any areas where you feel like you'd be interested in doing something if the right opportunity came across your desk? Yeah I'd say first Asset Management is the one that we've highlighted because they've probably been most active consistently on and they're still interested in deals.
As you know we're highly selective and tend to be long-term.
We talked about a number of Private Client Group we'd love to have but you could count them on one hand and they're probably not for sale.
So we tend to be long-term and focused on those kind of deals.
And we're not going to buy something just to grow.
We get a lot of people that bring stuff to us for size and we just say we're not interested.
So we're selective.
We've wanted to extend in Canada where we seem to be profitable when the other non-fixed banks are challenged.
But again you got to find the right opportunities at the right price.
And we've been more active in looking at the U.K.
in M&amp;A and Private Client.
But again that has been successful in marrying up what we're interested in with the opportunities.
But we continue to work at it work on the contacts.
And again we're not transactional-based.
We'll continue to look at those deals.
And at the right place the right time if doesn't we're not going to buy.
You make it sound a little more passive than it is.
It used to be outside of Asset Management.
They just react to deals that were shown to us.
But we do have a proactive effort now in addition to the ongoing effort in Asset Management to look at potential targets in all of our spaces.
We have corporate development function.
We have targets.
We do have conversations.
But again we're only going to do the right deals at the right price and firms with our culture that fit long-term.
And if we could find more Morgan Keegans we do them but there's not just a lot out there that fits that way and certainly not of that size.
With the respect to the headcount I thought I missed this but what drove this small sequential decline from last quarter? And then with respect to your comments on the backlog it sounds like things are picking up.
And so just curious if you can provide any perspective around expectations for timing just based on where you guys are in discussions if you expect that you could be closing on more individuals? Is it going to be this quarter or does it look like it's first half of the calendar year or just any perspective based on where the conversations are? Year-end you tend to have more activity.
We also put new grid in for RJA combined Raymond James and Morgan Keegan.
And it was tough around the lower end of producers and where we try to continue to upgrade and you can see it in our productivity.
We tend to lose people to lower end.
And for economic reasons they go to firms where lower volumes and they get a little better payouts and what we think is appropriate for our strategy.
So that's where you're really seeing the numbers.
If I could tell on recruitment when people join everyone is almost like an M&amp;A deal.
You got to convince them over and then they time it.
Sometimes they move so much they don't come.
They generally move out a little bit.
So I don't think you're going to see any lumpiness.
I think you're going to see a good steady.
From what we can tell on the pipeline and good steady increase in terms of the number of people coming over.
So we kind of measure that by pipeline how many people are we talking to how many people come into the home office.
And I think we can just tell you that those activity levels are all up.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell from Buckingham Research.
I don't know if you can give any color on what net inflows look like into the retail brokerage business and/or asset management that would be great.
I don't have the numbers here.
You would expect in Asset Management they're up 9%.
5% to 6% of that would have been market lift and the rest of net flows.
We had very good net flows in that business.
An d it just continues partly as advisors get more into it Morgan Keegan continues to invest more in our Asset Management business.
Our outside businesses are going good.
So we get good net flows.
Maybe just one quick follow-up on the Capital Markets division that's the one area that pre-tax margins are a little bit below your target.
Is the amortization coupled with better revenues or do you think there's still some more that you can get done there to hit your targets? Fixed income is tough right now.
So you're going to get some margin drag from there.
And as I explained a little bit earlier in the Equity Capital Markets business I think it's hard with comp ratios to predict what they really should be.
So that's kind of a lumpy business.
So we kind of estimate them and correct them.
As we get through the year-end when we get a better view on volume so that's some work to do to get those margins up and there might be a little bit of cost.
We continue to analyze kind of our total cost in Equity Capital Markets.
But they're doing well.
They're positioned well.
So I think you'll see an improvement.
Again in that business the Capital Markets business it's hard to get a trend off of one quarter.
At this time there are no further questions.
Thank you.
I would like to make one further comment before we get off the call.
First thanks to all for joining.
The other one is really to thank Chet Helck.
Chet has been invaluable in growing our Private Client Group business.
He was an innovator in RJF.
He took over and ran that and has jointly overseen our Private Client Group business and we had great growth great advisors joined us under his leadership.
And he has proactively put succession in place a couple of years ago with Scott for doing a great job.
And I have seen too many people for a couple of years to hang on.
So he says you got the team in place and I want to go on and enjoy life a little bit.
So I appreciate him for his leadership his development and promotion of people internally.
Part of all of our jobs is to make sure that organization succeeds well beyond as we bring succession in.
So he's been invaluable.
We'll miss him.
He's left a great legacy here and just wanted to thank him and let you all know that the Private Client Group is in great hands.
So with that thank you all for joining and hope it warms up there for you in the Northeast by our next quarterly call and certainly by the Super Bowl because I'll be up there next weekend.
So warm it up.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Earnings Call for Raymond James Financials Fiscal 2015 First Quarter Results.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference facilitator today.
This call is being recorded and would be available on the Company's Web site.
Now I will turn it over to Paul Shoukry Vice President of Finance and Head of Investor Relations at Raymond James Financial.
Thanks Felicia and good morning.
On behalf of our entire leadership team I want to thank you for joining the call this morning.
We really do appreciate your time and interest in Raymond James Financial.
After I read the following disclosure I'll turn the call over to Paul Reilly our Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Julien our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks they will ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives business prospects anticipated savings financial results industry or market conditions demand for our products acquisitions anticipated results of litigation &amp; regulatory developments or general economic conditions.
In addition to words such as believe expect anticipate intends plans projects forecasts and future and conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statements that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K which is available on the SEC's Web site at sec.gov.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Paul Reilly CEO of Raymond James Financial.
Paul? Thanks Paul and good morning.
Ive got little cold here you have to excuse my voice.
While were here in St.
Petersburg focused on recruiting we can watch the world leaders focused on solving the worlds problems.
But its a little bit warmer in St.
Petersburg [indiscernible].
I'd like to start by saying first its a solid start to our fiscal year especially considering the volatility uncertainty in the whole capital market segment.
Quarterly net revenue of $1.25 billion is up 6% over prior year and down from the 3% from the preceding quarter.
Part of that is based on an adjustment well talk about.
And were also comparing it to last quarter which was an exceptional investment banking quarter.
Pretax income of $203 million which is up 16.2% of pretax on net revenue net income of $126 million or $0.87 per diluted share.
Our ROE annualized is 12% on a conservative and somewhat argue prudent capital base given the state of the economy and particularly 12% given the rate environment we believe is very good on our capital base.
Most importantly our key drivers of our business are up record quarterly AUA of $483 billion down from last month but a quarter of record.
Record quarterly assets under management of $66.7 billion net loans of $11.8 billion and maybe most importantly which drives those other factors is that a net 71 addition of financial advisors in the quarter alone.
Going to the Private Client Group quarterly net revenues of $845 million up 8% but down 2% from the previous quarter 8% over last year and $19 million of that revenue -- Jeff will address the $10.5 million kind of mutual fund adjustment which adjusted in this quarter but could have spread over the last five years and 6% plus in some syndicate and insurance and other conditional products that was down in the quarter.
Pretax income was $93 million which is 30% over last years quarter and 11% pretax margin to net revenue.
So a strong performance by the Private Client Group keeps marching on.
Retention; keeping our good advisors is job one and we had good results in the quarter and recruiting is job two with a 158 additional advisors over last years quarter and 71 over the sequential quarter.
The pipeline of our HOV which are Home Office Visits is very robust and we look forward to a good recruiting season.
Client assets under administration are $459 billion.
38% of that is in fee based accounts.
In fact or total recruiting revenues in the Private Client Group segment are getting about 75%.
Capital markets quarterly net revenue of $232 million down 3% from last year and 11% sequentially but again last quarter we had a record investment banking revenue year.
M&amp;A stayed really good at $47 million but other investment banking revenue was down.
And the number of deals in the U.S.
were essentially flat.
We had a few less lead deals in that quarter and our fee per deal and our revenue per deal that we participated in was down.
And this was compounded by very weak conditions in the Canadian Capital Markets an energy based economy which has been tough going.
Our tax credit funds are also down about $6 million due to timing not the run rate just when we closed deals.
So they all impacted the quarter.
Volatility helped our institutional commissions up 10% sequentially in equities and 12% in fixed income.
Our trading profits were down but again some unusual factors.
$2 million of that was due to fixed income softer previous quarter.
The $3 million was really a write down in Canada due to an energy related deal and a brought deal that we were right lead on.
So those impacted trading profits.
Asset management is kind of humming along record quarterly assets of $56.7 billion 10% over the private year both by market appreciation and net flows about 800 million of net flows by managed accounts for the last quarter.
Record net revenue a $99.6 million benefited from a $5 million performance fee.
We had a record pretax of 39.8% -- pretax was $39.8 million which gave us a 40% margin but thats due to those factors and we expect that to move more towards that 30% margin target.
RJ Bank record net loans up $850 million sequentially part of that driven by an acquisition of the $207 million residential portfolio.
Record quarterly net revenues of $100.5 million pretax of $66.4 million up 20% over last years quarter NIM improved two basis points over last quarter essentially flat with last year.
The loan loss increases were almost entirely due to loan growth not credit issues.
In fact our credit metrics continue to improve.
If you looked at non-performing assets as a percent of total loans that declined from 60 bips from 69 bips a year-ago included size loans were down also.
So with that I'm going turn it over to Jeff who will go into some more detailed numbers.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
Paul touched on several line items so I'll try to just hit the ones that he did not touch on.
When you compare this quarter to last years quarter in general most of the revenue and expense line items are pretty self-explanatory.
Commissions and fees are up obviously largely PCG and just our general size with more advisors more assets et cetera.
He touched on advisory fee.
We did have a performance fee last December as well in fact about twice the size of the one this year.
So thats an even more impressive gain in advisory fees over the prior year.
Interest is up on revenue side and thats just merely as a result of the bank's growth.
Finally all that loan growth we had is kicking into net interest.
Account and service fees is going to continue to grow just as our general size grows.
I know we -- I said last quarter maybe a 108 was the right run rate and thats kind where everyone had modeled it but the fact is between all the various types of fees that go in there with IRA fees transaction fees and some fee accounts all kinds of fees that are assessed around the organization that are actually the fees we get from other banks and our bank suite program -- remember thats not interest that's fees us and all those things fall into that line.
So thats going to continue to grow as our overall asset base grows.
Paul has touched on trading profits and the factors there.
Other is down pretty significantly from last year but last year we had a bigger private equity gain in the quarter than we did this year and we also had $5.5 million gain from ARS redemptions that we did not have this year.
On the expense side just a couple of things that deserve mention.
One is versus last year first quarter communication and information processing is down pretty significantly also down just slightly from last quarter preceding quarter and certainly versus your estimates and I know thats because of our guidance toward a bigger number.
While we have a -- you might think this is a fairly easy line item for us to budget but the fact is while its not difficult to budget total spend its a little bit tough for us to judge when and how things will be capitalized versus expensed when things are completed along the way and its also difficult as other examples in various projects if we use employees to do the project whether its a maintenance project or whatever it could be an expense item.
And if we hire outside consultants to do it it falls in the IT expense line item.
So its a little difficult for us to get the P&amp;L impact on that line item.
Although we certainly talk about total spend at the budget meetings quite a bit.
Business development is going to continue to increase largely due to recruiting efforts estimated advisory sub advisory fees obviously growth in assets where we're the advisor and we sub advise in some of our programs to unaffiliated managers.
The bank loan loss provision is up pretty dramatically from both last year and last quarter and thats -- I dont think $9.4 million provision expense should really shock anyone in light of $846 million in net loan growth in the quarter.
Thats not all corporate loan growth.
Its in the various categories.
So I know through November I think wed only had $300 million of net loan growth from the September.
So obviously we had a very very active December in loan growth at the bank and that's including a full purchase of residential loans and that led to the bigger production and the bigger provision for the quarter.
And then the other expense so thats another item thats going to get bigger just as we get bigger.
There are a number of individual small items that go into that particular line item.
Versus the preceding quarter the securities commissions and fees they had -- Paul mentioned they were up nicely on the capital markets side but down sequentially in the private client group side.
And that decline of about $19 million was about half of that or a little more than half of that was made up by this mutual fund adjustment which relates to our going back five years related to share classes used in retirement accounts.
Weve heard that this was going out to other firms.
So we voluntarily went back five year period and thats the kind of a systematically generated worst case type number.
I think when we scrub it we may have some positive adjustments to that going forward.
But for now its about a $10.5 million type item that weve chosen to reverse out of commissions.
Again it covers over a five year period looking back.
And then appropriately we took the corresponding reverse loan expense commission expense related to that.
Investment banking we had a huge September quarter record quarter for us in September.
So obviously you would expect a good decline there.
Again Paul mentioned as pretty active just the economics per transaction were a lot lower than they were in the preceding quarter.
We talked about investment advisory fees.
They're obviously tracking assets and we had the performance fee this time.
Interest is still generated at the bank predominantly in terms of the increase.
The other revenues are actually up nicely.
We had little more PE gains and we also had -- in this particular corridor we had a sale of an OREO property at the bank for a profit which kicked in there.
On occupancy and equipment it may look odd that that would decline.
If you remember it was a little bit high in the preceding quarter.
We talked about a couple of factors in terms of some maintenance work that was being done at one of our facilities in south field and some things like that that made a little bit higher than the run rate last quarter.
So its really kind of on track.
And then the other expense -- one other item Ill mention that's kind of rationing of other expense.
We actually have several of our tax credit fund deals that have been purchased by our own bank as part of their CRA program and its a good after tax return to the bank.
The accounting has been changed on those such that if you buy them from a third party the tax effect of what would have been a pretax loss all gets netted down below in the tax line.
However since were buying it from an affiliated party on a consolidated basis we end up showing that as a loss a pretax loss on our statement.
And then correspondingly we get a tax benefit.
So not a huge factor.
We only have I think three transactions that we own at the bank.
But just one more nuance that's going to impacts us.
Let me just talk about three other things.
Our pretax margin obviously came in well above our 15% target for the quarter at 16.2% and perhaps our internal target may ratchet up over time here given the state of our businesses and the fact that were seeing the leverage from the increased revenues in these businesses that weve talked about over the years.
Comp ratio was down to 67.2% but remember we had a couple of adjustments.
We had some -- this mutual fund the expense side of that was reversed in there.
We also in every December reverse whatever over accruals we had from the prior year in incentive compensation pool.
Thats a factor every year.
We try to keep it under 10 million but it's there every December quarter for us to some extent.
Without those things it would have been high 67 and again 68 is an annual number annual target for us not necessarily to happen every quarter just once because of the incentive comp reversal is typically a little lower and then next quarter would be a little higher with FICA restarting another things that we talked about a year-ago.
Lastly the tax rate was 37.8% a higher than was projected and I guess I would say we try to every quarter look at what our annual tax rate is going to be based on what we know for the year-to-date.
We dont know whole lot by the end of December for the whole fiscal year but one of the things we do know is what the quarterly gain or loss is and it was a nice gain for the quarter.
It was about $6 million gain for the quarter.
So we assume for the balance of the year that its not going to change.
We dont assume that thats going to be $6 million per quarter.
So on a bigger pretax income base we have less affect from that.
And we sort of somewhat conservatively I think estimate all of the annual impacts just because we dont want a negative surprises but the minimize the negative surprises through the end of the year in terms of the tax rate but for those modeling forward if you assume a flat market rate environment or flat -- that 37.5 type tax rate probably is still a pretty good estimate to year going forward.
Paul? I'll give you kind of a little bit of a floored look.
Again once our key to good -- the areas is the key drivers of our business which is related to the private client group are all very positive.
So assets under administration and since we bill quarterly in advance we get some tailwinds from that.
Perhaps thats under management or up.
Net loans with the provision this quarter but those loans should be producing next quarter.
Recruiting remains robust and this is the peak recruiting season this next quarter so in terms of visits.
So takes a while between a visit and a sign on but that's been going very good.
In private client group productivity of the advisors continues to go up.
So we should have a tailwind in that area.
This also impacts the asset management in the bank.
So for us the key is our culture is I think one of the reasons that our net additions are so good is that we're focused on making this a very friendly place to work and thats our number one.
It allows us to keep people.
It allows us to offer less transition assistance than other firms do to bring people in because people want to be here.
We continue to invest heavily in our tax spend so when it gets down I think the annual run rate we still hold to.
I believe we're becoming a leader really in the FA desktop technology.
Asset management continues to grow with net flows driven by PCG recruitment.
Again the 40% margin I think was a blip that 30% margins were a normal run rate for it.
Bank growth is always tougher to predict.
As Jeff said last quarter wasnt really big through November and then we had a great December and a little slower start in January.
So its always hard to predict whats going to happen there.
The NIM increased to two basis points.
I think it spells hopefully that spreads are widening a little bit but.
But on that I think we are still comfortable with the mid-teens guidance in overall net loan growth for the year and I think we're still comfortable with 3%ish net interest margin for the year even though we've seen some gradual improvement there? And then Canada will have some impact next quarter.
The 25 decrease does affect our variable rate loans in Canada.
It's got a $600 million book.
So all-in-all I think we're in good shape from those businesses.
Capital markets is a tough one.
Volatility increases certainly helped institutional commissions but volatility sometimes makes it harder to go to market depending if it's volatile trending up or trending down but -- so that has some questions and we do have a very good oil and gas midstream energy practice.
One of our biggest practices certainly in terms of financings could impact the short-term if oil prices stay down.
Certainly M&amp;A aspect which we do a fair amount of also would be up.
And the Canadian business is certainly impacted because its commodity based practice.
But even within that we're growing platform we added a consumer team last quarter this quarter added a life sciences team and new head of M&amp;A in Canada.
Public finance coming off a great year still a tough market.
We went from actually 10 to number 8 in the league tables for full credit to lead on negotiated issues.
For the first time hit over $10 billion last year but still a tough market.
Fixed income trading profits were more difficult as we get a flatter yield curve.
Institutional commissions certainly have increased.
There's been a lot of questions I guess for everyone in general on energy exposure.
So I'll talk a little bit about ours.
If you look at our loan book about 3.4% of our loans are broadly in the energy sector.
We only have one loan to an E&amp;P company and it an investment grade rated facility.
And that we do have some sort of servicers small exposures but most of them are midstream kind of companies and we feel pretty comfortable with our loan exposure.
We have been discussing it dont feel -- unless oil prices stay down for a very long time that will have a negative impact.
So we like our credit exposure.
Certainly I think oil prices are good for consumers' long term.
So we have a big consumer based business here.
So it may show up in other parts of our business and short term could have an impact on our investment banking financing part of our business but creates an M&amp;A opportunity.
The next quarter in some ways is a tougher quarter for us.
Its -- sometimes when the lot of deals close by year end you dont know whats going to happen in the first quarter in banking.
Certainly our comp ratio will be higher for a number of reasons not just the reversal going away but FICA hits us in this quarter.
As you remember if you go past its one of the increased costs.
We also send out lots of statements at the end of the quarter and there's a $2 million impact on that that hits us in this quarter for annual reports and client statements.
So with that the basics of the business are really strong.
I like being here at Raymond James with our position in terms of growing assets capital and advisors.
Short term its hard to tell in this type of environment with both the global economy and whats happening in the U.S.
We feel very very comfortable in our position for the year but its hard to predict whats going to happen next quarter.
So with that Felicia I guess well turn -- open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Devin Ryan with JMP Securities.
So I just want to dig in a little bit on the NIM in the bank.
And I guess the puts and takes there too.
I know there's a long moving parts with clearly some rate pressure here.
But then the loan growth has been still upsized and not all of that has been reflected yet.
So I guess the question is does it go up structurally with the loans that you brought on? And then the kind of the offset is the mortgage and rate pressure is going to go off.
But I'm just trying to think through kind of some of the moving parts to how you say 3% or it may even go up a little bit from here? Devin good morning its Steve Raney.
As Jeff alluded to the 3% its kind of a good target I think for the balance of the year.
I would say right now were seeing actually maybe a slight widening in corporate credit spreads.
Residential spreads have probably pulled in a little bit.
But things are relatively stable right now.
So were pretty confident that that number is going to be pretty flat for the balance of the year on when you blend it all together.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
And then just looking at the I am sorry Devin.
I was just going to remind to everybody that majority of our loans are floating rate LIBOR based loans.
Both our corporate loans as well as our growing securities based loans where were making loans to Raymond James clients secured with their Raymond James brokerage account.
So those two loan components are almost exclusively LIBOR based floating rate loans.
Got it thanks Steve.
And then with respect to the debt underwriting business I know there was some pressure this quarter as you alluded to.
But I guess the revenues just look pretty soft given that youve had some pretty nice improvement there the past few quarters.
So just little more color there would be helpful.
Was there seasonal factors or was it related to just kind of the macro backdrop and the outlook for that business specifically just given that kind of we took a descent step back in this quarter.
I can tell you our pipeline is strong.
Weve moved up in market share.
Its just the macro market.
So when it increases well do well.
Were well positioned.
We have a good team.
Were continuing to expand the team actually and grow in the market.
So there is nothing.
Its hard to tell.
The backlog is very good in the business.
But its just new issues are down across the board.
Got it okay.
Fair enough.
And then just lastly here with respect to the just a clean-up item the commission adjustment that occurred the corresponding expense what was that in the independent channel or the traditional channel? Just trying to kind of get a sense because I know that can have a big impact in terms of what the commission rate is that was netted again? So I'm just trying to get a better sense of the actual earnings impact? We just made a broad assumption at this point of half and half and theyre [indiscernible] about 60% charge for our payout rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Christ Allen with Evercore.
Just wanted to talk a little bit about the communication information processing line.
You guys provided some color there.
In the last quarter there was -- you talked about being on a big of hiatus in terms of capital projects.
Were just trying to think about how that line should look going forward just kind of a good run rate right now or should that start to creep back up again? I think it will start to creep back up.
Remember Paul mentioned that next quarter -- its not just IT.
Its really all we call all communication.
So we've put some of these mailing costs and things like that in there as well which are seasonally high in the March quarter with 1099 year-end statements and shareholder information.
Thats over a $2 million charge just because of that and to the extent that we kept up our spend rate which we know we are still investing heavily in technology to stay current here.
Some of the things that we have been working on will start to amortize.
Some of that will be taken in.
So I would certainly expect it to creep back up toward where we have been guiding previously which was the low-to-mid-60s but again its a little hard -- bit of a hard number to put our thumb on.
So I can emphasize for your situation.
Got it.
And then I appreciate the color just in terms of the energy exposure in the loan book just wondering how big of a component the capital markets businesss energy been historically? It sounds like stuff [ph] in the account is a little bit weak right now and you provided disclosure on the Canadian overall revenue.
Just wondering within the bank because I am sorry within the capital markets piece how big energy is? It depends when? Last year was 15% it goes up and down.
Real-estate is our biggest practice followed by Energy.
But it depends how those cycles are doing.
And of that 15% a good portion of that was advisory base as well.
So it wasnt all underwriting 15% 20%.
I would imagine this current pullback is going to create opportunity longer term within that business.
So not all bad near-term obviously a challenge.
And then I just one other question just within the bank it looks like other income that was about $4 billion roughly $3.5 million to $4 million.
I was wondering is there is anything one-timer in there or is it because it was a big jump what we calculated last quarter? Yes Chris one of the things that we alluded to earlier was the sale of a oil property property that we had foreclosed on where we sold it for more than we had written it down to.
That was about a $550 000 contribution.
There is a bunch of other items that are comprised in there foreign exchange.
We mentioned in the September quarter that we dont have any other foreign exchange.
We moved the loans the Canadians denominated loans to the Canadian finance company.
So there we are really fully hedged now.
So we dont have that volatility in the banks earnings going forward.
So those were the contributing factors.
And there was a loss negative in the September quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Christian Onwugbolu with Credit Suisse.
Just a follow-up on the tax spend but a bit of a broader question.
You've done a very good job in terms of improving solutions for advisors but I'd like to get your latest thoughts on what areas you're targeting for future investments.
And also any thoughts around any additional investments needed for things like data security? First -- I will take them in reverse.
We data security very very seriously and we've had both our auditors and other consultant kind of review our security and we get high marks for our size.
We have Bella and her team and the person that heads our data security have done a great job.
As you all know in this environment we think we're safe as you can be but nobody is bullet proof.
So we're active in it with active monitoring.
So its in a focused area and I guess the bad guys get better and we continue to spend more but we feel like we are as state of the art as anyone in this area certainly cant spend what the biggest firms spend but nor do we have a broad global exposure.
In technology we continue to -- we've focused a lot on the FA desktop and reporting.
We're spending more time now on cash movement whether its taking a picture of a check and depositing or making it easy to journal or make our trading systems easier integrating a lot of our data platform so that we can do more data mining and on the underlying systems and able to add to new modules.
So its pretty broad based.
We started out with the plan -- a five year plan.
We're half way through it.
We are right on every place we are and we continue to improve and get better.
So it's certainly just helping quality of the system all the way across the make our advisor life easier and be able to manage the business better.
And then on the fixed income business I appreciate its very hard to forecast.
But your results have held in pretty well here.
If the environment stays as it is today just love to get your latest thoughts on how you see kind of the revenue trajectory there what would be the next [indiscernible]? Gosh I would have been wrong calling the bottoms for a while.
So I guess the worst case scenario is that short-terms rates go up a couple of hundreds bips and we have a flat yield curve through the tenure and for fixed income.
However we're voting for it.
It will be very good for Raymond James consolidated.
So certainly volatility help in trading but the flatter the yield curve the harder it is on trading profits and on -- and even on commission volumes long term.
So a low flat curve is the worst case and if you had to project it looks like were moving closer to that and farther from it right now.
So we like volatility and a steeper yield curve.
So youre going to have to make some predictions on that business.
So we got a great team and great distribution.
They're very active with the clients.
And so youre right.
Weve done better than most.
But I cant tell you what the macro trends are.
I cant say anything short term its going to make the business look a lot better.
And as I tell our people internally we believe that we have an A-team in the D market and still double digit margins and with a terrible market.
So I dont see short term really but weve got a good team.
Okay thanks for the color there.
And then just lastly from me Jeff just remind us some potential [ph] client cash how much client cash you have on the platform.
How much of that is being swept to third parties and then what kind of yields youre getting on that sweep? Were up to about $32.5 billion.
Its actually increased as we brought on new clients and new financial advisors from the September.
We have probably $28 billion of that $32.5 billion sitting in our bank suite program $10.5 billion of that roughly going to our own bank and balance to unaffiliated banks.
You know what the spread is in our own bank because weve talked about the NIM.
The spread from outside banks pretty big range but were seeing some upticks in that.
There is more demand from outside banks.
Weve seen an increase.
Were over 30 basis points now on average.
And were seeing all the new contracts that come up for renewal and the new banks that were bringing on are at higher rates than the ones that are running off.
So weve seen a little turnaround there really started about six to nine months ago where banks actually now want deposits again.
They arent quite as easy to come by as they were in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
This is actually Neil Stratton filling in for Bill this morning.
I just want to ask the question about the Private Client Group.
You mentioned the robust recruiting trends.
So the two part question is A where is the growth coming from and then B how does the productivity compare of the incoming recruits versus the overall platform? Thanks.
Couple of things.
First the growth in general comes from warehouses for people who are I would say from acquired firms.
The deals build off and they are seeking kind of the cultures they grew up in.
So thats general.
But also weve had -- we focused on opening up the West and North East.
Its a big focus of ours started couple of years ago and its starting to pay off.
So a third of our recruiting growth has come just in the West Coast and North East.
And it happened to be amongst the biggest markets.
So we have very low penetration.
So we see huge opportunity there and assigned some large teams and continue to have a lot of interest in the West and North East.
And if you look at our platform we have national advertising national servicing call centers.
So the marginal cost -- were already incurring the costs and not getting the leverage on a lot of those areas.
So we think there is a very very big opportunity there.
Its coming across all of our platforms employee independent and our RIA channel which we've kind of reinvigorated.
Its picking up in its backlog of recruits too.
So its really across the board.
And we see that if you measure it by home office visits which are -- people are serious enough to come kick the tires here in St.
Pete and us also interview them that's us.
So it continues to increase.
So we think the backlog is very-very good.
In terms of productivity at higher and maybe 20% higher on average and weve also seen for us million dollar team should be big.
In last quarter I think we had three teams over $5 million join us just within six weeks alone.
So we tend to get bigger teams.
It doesnt mean we dont get smaller producers that are high quality and on their way up.
Were just as interested in them.
But the average is certainly up.
So it helps move up our productivity numbers.
Okay thank you.
And then my second question is just the outlook for the top to net revenue ratio.
I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned the 68% ratio.
Is that still the -- so the target for fiscal 15 and how would that sort of move sort of quarter-to-quarter if you could provide any color there? Thanks.
I think thats probably still a good run rate to use for this year for the entire year.
What will happen to improve that over time and it may improve slightly over that this year is as revenue growth continues eventually you get some economies of scale in the infrastructure you have here as opposed.
So its not all variable comp.
There are some fixed comp elements to that.
So it really is going to come with scale over time as revenues grow.
And like I said it may happen this year if revenues continue to increase from the prior year.
But our most challenged quarter is usually next quarter when FICA across the Board and that usually burns off in the third quarter part way through the third quarter.
So typically the pressure on that ratio getting steady business across is in the next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
So I just had a follow-up question on the fixed business.
Just given how [ph] is shape of the yield curve and the rate pressure that had persisted on the long end whether we should be thinking about $10 million as the run rate for net trading profit at least in the near to intermediate term assuming a static curve which I know is a big if.
The front end really for couple of years that run rate is probably reasonable.
I cant tell you it's been -- it hasnt been an increasing net profit.
I think trading profit.
This quarter was challenged and we had an unusual situation for the Canada that impacted trading profit.
In Canada everything in equity capital markets is a brought deal and you got five days of exposure versus an overnight exposure.
And we got in on a deal which was an energy credit where we was on all place.
We werent the lead left but we were the lead right and oil prices went down or caught in the position.
So thats kind of a one off thing.
That happens every few years will end up in a position on a deal.
They do great job there but with oil coming in we got caught on that one.
Thats an unusual item.
The rest of it I think is kind of steady.
If we had to pick a range I would say that -- that will be the low end of the range.
So if you want to be real conservative I guess you could use that number.
And then just I guess the follow-up to a question earlier on the communications expense.
I just want to make sure that we are modeling it appropriately.
Should we be thinking about low to mid-60s as the annualized $250 million or so given that it came in about 10 million less than we had anticipated should we assume that an incremental 3 million gets tacked on say normalized rate or should we just assume somewhere in the low-60s going forward at least over the next three fiscal quarters? For all the reasons I enumerated earlier it's a little bit tough for us to tell.
I think low-60s for going forward is probably a reasonable estimate at this point.
And then just one final one for me maybe for Steve at the bank thinking about the provision trajectory it did increase consistent with the guidance you guys have given in last quarter.
Should we assume that this is a reasonable run rate expectation given some of the guidance you have given on loan growth for at least a reminder of the year? Well we're forecasting loan growth to be slower for the balance of this year relative to the December quarter and we would expect provisioning to be aligned with that loan growth.
Does the 130 basis points to 140 basis point provision expectation still hold or is there any remixing issues that we need to consider? No thats right.
The blend of the business is it does impact that.
Our residential provisioning is lower than our corporate lending provisioning as is our security type lending is lower as well.
So I would say thats kind of a good 125 basis points - 140 basis point provisioning on loan growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Hugh Miller with Macquarie.
So I guess starting with the couple of questions for Steve.
I appreciate the color you gave on the NIM and kind of the widening of credit spreads and how thats been helpful to offset some of the pressure on the yield curve.
I wanted to get your take on kind of deposit pricing competition when we start to get into an eventual rising rate environment.
It seems to be I guess [indiscernible] that we have been hearing where some people are expecting that banks will kind of use that increase as a means to kind of lift their NIMs and not really compete as much on deposit pricing where others are expecting some of the larger banks to have to compete actively because of their liquidity coverage ratios.
I was wondering how you anticipate things might shake out when we do see rates rising and how competitive deposit pricing competition is likely to be.
There is a lot of unknowns given that this is totally uncharted waters for all institutions given the regulatory framework that you just referenced.
And the rate setting that takes place that impacts us is really kind of a firm-wide discussion.
We will certainly be looking at what the competitors are doing.
I think that there is some sentiment that as rates rise when we get back to maybe more normalized rate environment that not all of that will go the depositors but thats yet to be determined in terms of what the competition is doing.
We want to do whats fair for our clients first and foremost.
But we do take rising rates on the short end.
They probably would help our net interest margins around the firm not only at the bank but the fees -- the spread on the other cash that Jeff referenced.
But we only have about $10.5 billion of the $32 plus billion of client cash balances same deployed in the bank currently.
Great.
Even if it gets more competitive I think the assumption that were operating under we've already sort of taken that into account because Ive not heard anybody be as conservative as we are in terms of client sharing of a rise in rates at this point.
Jeff I appreciate the additional color you guys have given its very helpful.
And then some questions on the capital market side.
I noticed the hiring that you guys made with the director up in Canada for M&amp;A.
And I was wondering if you could talk about the opportunities youre seeing up there? And historically how much business you guys have produced for capital markets in the Canadian region? Certainly the mix was Canada did better than us in 08 and 09.
11 was a very strong year for them and its been slower since because its commodity based.
So the one thing we do know is in Canada too much has been on financings and we havent really had an active M&amp;A business.
So our M&amp;A work where it's half our revenue here less roughly in the U.S.
its been episodic in Canada and there is no reason for that.
There is plenty of business.
So weve been looking either for a firm or a leader now for a couple of years and finally I was able to recruit someone after a couple of years' effort.
And we think we have the right person to build out an M&amp;A business.
So we think that will certainly help smooth out the Canadian capital markets business.
And I dont know if we were projecting.
He's just on board Monday.
So were not predicting any short term impact on that.
But he's a quite strong person and then a good player and well build the steam around it.
And I think that will help us and smooth out the Canadian business which very simply its just a financing business right now.
Okay thats helpful.
And I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the risks and opportunities with energy related capital markets in both underwriting and M&amp;A.
I guess weve been seeing a little bit a pickup in some secondary issuings in energy.
People are showing off their balance sheets and there is just some discussion about a potential near term lull in amounts and activity as people are kind of hoarding capital levels at this point.
But longer term expectations are pretty strong.
I was wondering what your view is and what you are hearing with discussions with [indiscernible] and how concerned they are relative to their expectation to be opportunistic? I think that our view is kind of reflective of that that first were very well positioned in the downstream energy business in particular.
And debt financing maybe off a little bit here.
But M&amp;A activity will pick up and when that is I dont know.
Now a big deal was announced yesterday right.
So who knows? But were in the mix and certainly clients with cash are looking at these prices and looking for opportunities.
And producers that are more leveraged are worried about it.
So there is certainly interest on both sides.
When you get a deal or how long companies feel like they can hold out or when people think the bottom is who knows.
But I do think that if oil prices stay in the 50ish level for some period of time then M&amp;A activity will pick up significantly.
So and were lowering that now but we think M&amp;A is a good opportunity and that potentially financings will come back too.
But I cant predict when that will happen.
Okay I appreciate that insight.
And then last question from me is could you just give us a little a bit more color or insight onto kind of the economics per transaction that were a little less than what weve seen before? And is it just kind of a function of where things shook out in certain sectors where maybe you dont have that dominant position in or was there anything in particular you guys noticed that would cause that to be the case this quarter? Its just in the positioning and where it shakes out.
And you have used an extreme example.
Last quarter Alibaba went out everyone you would get a teeny piece but at a pretty free.
So if you are in the syndicate at any level and something that size people do well and the smaller sizes are if you're not lead with multiple lead book runners and smaller co-manager positions.
If you were in that co-manager position on smaller deals you're getting a lot less fee per deal.
And in the September quarter we were on -- we get more lead deals and a lot bigger transactions and in this quarter got the same number of transactions.
I think were at three or four less lead positions.
But the deals were smaller.
So I dont think its endemic of anything.
Its just when the transactions hit and the sectors they hit in.
Okay.
And I guess just one quick follow up.
As we think about the backlog from a non-energy related standpoint are there certain sectors that you guys are seeing more interest in activity and relative to others? I think the interest is still there.
So I dont know where people across the board in our businesses -- real estate is our biggest practice but I think if you look at transactions across the board [indiscernible].
So the other thing that some people kind of ignore which is a descent sized business versus tax credit deal.
And its doing really well.
And we had a bad quarter in terms of closing.
We recognized our fees on partnership closing and they are lumpy.
We had a very good September quarter and this quarter was off just because partnerships didnt close but the backlog is very very good.
So that also -- that in Canada exacerbated what was a weaker quarter.
Those two made it look a lot weaker than I think it really was.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
Certainly appreciate some of the color you gave on the bank's exposure to the energy sector.
Just wondering if I could dig into the little bit deeper.
This may be a bit too specific for you guys if you're willing to answer.
But when you think about sort of the provision levels that you got on these loans would it be essentially relatively higher than what you're seeing on the average of the portfolio or could you give us any more specifics on kind of how you think about provisioning for these? Joel we have 38 borrowers in the energy space.
So it comprises the exposure of we have -- there is $403 million of outstanding loan balances and there is 38 borrowers at the end of December.
Two of the 38 are in criticized categories.
So we have substantially higher reserves on those two names.
It goes without saying we've been very diligent here in the last several months reviewing name-by-name credit-by-credit and also certainly gathering intelligence from our investment banking colleagues and the equity research colleagues that have a lot of expertise in this business.
So we did downgrade even in the past category a few names.
So I would say on average that portfolio has higher provision -- have higher reserves associated with it than our other sectors as a result of the recent commodity price pressure.
So thats kind of the process and we're watching these names very closely for sure.
But not again and again.
We're not -- sure you're concerned given prices but we're not -- we think the names are well -- have good balance sheets and well financed and certainly prolonged downturn put pressure on everybody.
Yes 75% of the exposure as Paul mentioned to midstream names that typically dont have as much commodity risk associated with them but continue watch those as well.
And then just Jeff if you could give a little bit more color I want to make sure I understand the commission adjustment.
Did you say you guys -- you could have taken pieces of these charge over the past year or so and kind of why is now the appropriate time to do it? We didnt know -- we werent aware of the issue until we heard about it at other firms that it relates to five years' worth of activity.
This adjustment relates to any potential issues going back five years.
And again it was a systematically produced number for all potential transactions that might fall in this particular category.
So it is five years' worth of activity.
We werent aware of the issue until just recently and thats why its kind of a -- it looks like a bigger number than it should be and related to one quarter it'd be almost nothing.
Its small number going over time compared to our total commissions.
It's just when we found it we took -- we recognized it and we just found it and estimated it and so it hits this quarter but we will amortize that over five years particularly small number and very small part of our commission.
Just -- what we are trying to give color to those of you trying to do run rates and things like that that $10 million figure certainly should be a one-time hit to that line item.
And what exactly was the specific issue that addressing? I dont want to go into a lot of the specifics because its still very early in the process but it has to do with which share class of mutual funds were used for certain accounts.
And then just lastly for me in terms of the performance fees in the asset management business I apologize if I missed this before what generated that? We have two accounts that we're still getting performance fees on and I guess both outperformed their benchmarks for the year.
Its not based on the calendar year performance which is why it hits in the December quarter each year but less -- less than last year.
It was over $10 million last year roughly 10 million last year.
It was about $5.5 million this year related to two accounts that have a performance fee associated with them and one that has non-controlling interest associated with it.
But then I'll follow the bottom-line for us.
Most of it does.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Harris Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey another question on the NIM.
The guidance you guys are giving here flat for the year it's clearly I think a very good outcome given how much the yield curve has flattened.
And guess we're saying some of that is being supported by higher loan spreads.
So I'm wondering in an environment where loan spreads come back in do all a sudden you have kind of a risk to that NIM guidance and really trying to figure out whether that 270s NIM number we had talked about a couple of quarters ago would come into the play under that scenario? Chris our adjusting book is floating.
So the impact really isnt there.
The question is what happens on new loans and new production and what spread we're willing to invest money in the bank in.
So certainly if we continue to invest and decided to make -- we thought the return versus risk was worth it and you continued in a decreasing spread environment it would impact NIM negatively.
If it stayed flat [indiscernible] we are if rates went up it should -- spreads widen and go the other way.
But it wouldnt immediate impact the business.
That would depend on the new production and what you brought in.
And how much you participate We pass on deals all the time because it will take the return is adequate for the risk were taking.
So And just because the 10 years yield is down it doesnt its going to compress.
And in fact usually the 10 year yield comes down when its economic problems and people are fleeing to safety.
So that actually can widen corporate spread which is kind of what weve seen here recently.
So I wouldnt tie corporate spreads to 10 year and expect maybe inversely.
Right but I was just wondering if loan spreads came back down whether we'd get into that 270 zone.
It would if we participated and over time we'd have to run off whats in the portfolio and replace it with the lower spread.
Right so will be some time for having a bigger impact.
Follow up question on the recruiting.
Great quarter for you guys.
It sounds like the pipeline is really good.
I'm just wondering was there anything that happened this quarter to create such a large number the 70 plus advisors that you added.
Or might this be kind of a descent run rate for you going forward given how good the pipeline looks? No if you look at it its been lumpy.
Last quarter wasnt as big and two quarters was big.
So its just when they show up.
And were only partially in control of that.
They have to slightly come over.
And so that is certainly -- if you'd tell me we could repeat this quarter three more times I'd take it.
I'd sign for it right now.
So it was an exceptional quarter.
But Ill tell you the pipeline is very good and we think that were going to -- our target ought to do more than we did last year and last year was our second best year and so far we're on our targets.
But it could stop tomorrow it could go up and a lot of that not just dependent on us.
Its dependent on the markets and frankly a lot of it is dependent on what competitors the larger banks do because that has more impact on investors -- on advisors leaving than what we do.
When these advisors come on do you guys get all the assets right away and so in other words all that assets come over is there a lag effect that happens so on advisor? There is a lag.
And for the larger advisors we say we get 70%ish in the first year and then the rest comes on after that and they typically are growing their business because theyre good advisors.
So it doesnt all come over day one.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to pick your brains in the capital management strategy.
I know it comes up every once in a while.
But plenty of capital you guys deployed at the bank prudently but the share count continues to creep up slightly.
So any updated thoughts on I guess A at what point would you consider deploying some capital into the buyback as the multiple at least in the earnings basis is not egregious? And I guess secondarily maybe an update on as you bring all these new FAs in does that partially impact the creeping share account? And maybe just kind of what is the annual creep in the share count from RSUs and things like that? Our increase in share count is pretty steady.
I'll let Jeff address that.
It really has more to do with year-end comps than Fas per se but if you look at capital we are deploying a good chunk lately in bank growth and Fas bringing up days on.
So if you look at free cash its between bonuses and bringing people on it's down a bit.
We still have capital to employ.
Were still looking at acquisitions.
Were very disciplined.
As I said before we looked at a lot of them and if we cant -- they're not a complete set.
And certainly first culture secondly strategic and third is price and weve had a number of conversations where price doesnt work.
So we still think we can deploy capital but were very very disciplined which people should feel happy with.
And if we think we truly effect such capital we cant use well look at alternatives of deploying it.
At this state we think we can use our capital wisely.
And in terms of share count we typically have been -- we had been and between 1% to 1.5% a year type dilution really almost exclusively all the equity we issue has been retention oriented.
We use both incentive and non-qualified options as well as restricted stock units and we use them for producers.
We use them for our management people.
We use them for highly compensated people whatever category they fall in as a portion of their comp E [ph] shares and shares.
So its really meant to keep people in their seats long term which has been a successful program for us because you know certainly in the FA world you know our turnover statistics are lower by far than the industry averages.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Just maybe just a question on flows and what youre seeing in your retail customer base.
It seems if we kind of try to back into what the net flows were it seems like over the last two quarters theyve slowed from the first half.
And just trying to -- is that just simply a function of market volatility or anything else? Just any insight you have on sort of what your customer flow dynamic is right now and how you see that developing ahead or accelerate the recruitment effort? Thanks.
I cant say Ive seen any slowing.
A lot of our net flows are dependent on our recruiting which is going well.
And so when you get good quarters with lots of people as they bring on our assets it will pick back up some.
So I cant see anything overall that says our expected net flows should change.
Jim one thing you sort of have to be careful with when you project flows using maybe one index -- one stock market index and our clients have a diversified portfolio of fixed income cash and equities and even within equity that's not all represented by the S&amp;P 500 there is international there is small cap et cetera.
So sometimes our analysis could be skewed if youre using just S&amp;P 500 to track flow -- to estimate flows in PCGs is what I would tell you.
Thats fair.
So you could resolve that by just giving us the numbers.
If we knew them we would tell you.
We track those very closely in asset management for assets under management.
We track outflows but we dont we havent tracked it as closely on the overall.
If a lot of the FAs affiliate with us in this last quarter their assets may come over largely in this next quarter.
So there is a lag effect to that as well.
I put that in -- we know the best -- we think the trends are there but when people say whats the spend youre going to do and I always say if I knew that I wouldnt be working.
So who knows? Right and I guess any major shift in how your clients allocating over the last quarter or two? Is it more equities less equities just curious? Equity inflows have been okay some [ph] actually.
So its not huge but its not Overall mix hasnt changed much in the last two quarters.
And really in the last year.
Most of the mix change has been more for market appreciation.
We have a financial planning orientation here.
So our base doesnt tend to follow equities or fixed income to the extent that some other trading firms do with more stable asset mix.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
This is Neil again from Citi.
Just had a quick question.
Given the NIM guidance you have given for the bank do you have an outlook for the NIM for RJF when you include all the interest saving assets to the firm? We dont think of it NIM terms.
Yes we really dont.
Again thats a difficult calculation Neil because a lot of the cash balances shift from on balance sheet to off balance sheet and once they shift off balance sheet to other banks and that doesnt show up in interest income that shows up as fee income.
So its a little bit of a difficult calculation just based on the mix of whether that cash is being deployed on balance sheet or off balance sheet.
We focus a lot on total net interest earnings at the holding company level.
We dont really focus much as much.
Thats impacted by inventory level.
How much of inventory we finance.
A lot of other factors that I think would render a NIM at the holding company a little less meaningful than it does at the bank.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I think we ran up in a very good start for the year.
And I know the frustration is predicting a lot of this is around capital markets and both globally and domestically thats just difficult to predict what the economy is going to do.
But again I start by saying that shorter-term it's always hard to look at numbers and this next quarter tends to have some elevated expense just by the nature of our business.
So longer-term if you look at the growth in assets the growth in loans the growth in advisors those are the things that drive a vast majority of our business and there are all very positive.
So I feel good about our positioning for the long-term certainly for the year.
Next quarter it's just -- the rest of the business is variable and transaction oriented and hard to predict.
I wish we could give you better guidance.
If we had a strong feel we'd know but its just hard to predict in this economy.
So with that we appreciate your time.
We look forward to the next quarter and we're going to go back to work.
Thank you Felicia.
Thank you.
And this concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Earnings call for Raymond James Financial fiscal third-quarter results.
My name is Maria and Ill be your conference facilitator today.
This call is being recorded and will be available on the companys website.
Now I will turn the call over to Paul Shoukry Head of Investor Relations at Raymond James Financial.
Sir? Thanks Maria.
Good morning and thank you for joining our fiscal third quarter earnings call today.
We do not take your time and interest in Raymond James Financial for granted.
After I read the following disclosure I will turn the call over the Paul Reilly our Chief Executive Officer and Jeff Julien our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks they will ask the operator to open a line for questions.
Certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives business prospects anticipated savings financial results industry and market conditions demands for the product acquisitions anticipated results of litigation and regulatory involvements and general economic conditions.
In addition words such as believes expects anticipates intends plans projects forecasts and future conditional words such as will may could should and would as well as any other statements that necessary depends on future are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent form 10-K and subsequent form 10-Qs which are available on the FCCs website at fcc.gov.
So with that I will turn the call over to Paul Reilly CEO of Raymond James Financial Paul? Thanks Paul and good morning everyone.
We are just back recently a few weeks ago from our summer development conference which is our RJA Employee Advisor channel.
And besides the great group of advisors there were 700 kids in attendance under the age of 18 years old.
So if thats not a cultural differentiator from other firms.
Its kind of a unique place unique culture and just great people for training for the advisors and to see families together.
I want to start off with kind of an overview of the quarter.
First I think we had a very solid quarter and that were in great shape.
And that we are really driven by a number of the key drivers that delivered this quarter and put us in good shape in the future.
First is private client group asset advisors.
We reached 6507 advisors up 123 over the preceding quarter.
So that has to be a record recruiting for us in one quarter.
We had growth in every advisory channel.
And more importantly than great recruiting which we like to see is the retention.
We still have fantastic retention and its the people that really choose to stay here that make the culture here at Raymond James.
That recruiting and our advisors drove record assets under administration of just rounding to half a trillion dollars and assets under management of $70.2 billion.
Loans at Raymond James Bank were essentially flat at $12.05 billion and so very solid results there.
A quick overview of the financial results is we had record quarterly net revenues of $1.32 billion up 9% from last years quarter and 3% sequentially.
Quarterly net income of $133.2 million is up 9% from last years quarter and 17% sequentially.
And that quarter is our second best earnings quarter just off from $3 million from our record.
That quarter where we had that record was an incredible investment banking quarter.
So I think very solid results from our bottom line which earned us $0.91 per diluted share and we have an annualized ROE of 12%.
Private client group to get into the segments had a record net revenue of $892.2 million up 9% from last years quarter and 2% up sequentially.
Quarterly pre-caps income of $86.4 million up 6% over last years quarter and 15%sequentially.
And private client group assets under administration at $475.4 billion is up 5% over last years quarter.
Our assets under fee-based accounts at 39% of total client assets which really results in 75% recurring revenue for this segment.
Our capital markets had a quarterly net revenue of $233 million flat from last years quarter and then on 1% from the sequential quarter.
Quarterly pre-tax profits of $18.3 million were up 35% from last year and 12% from the previous quarter.
And its really a tale of two businesses.
Fixed income had a very good quarter as commissions were up partly due to the volatility and we have a great team and a very tough market.
Public finance had a near record quarter.
In fact if we had not changed allocations in accounting since Morgan Keegan joined us it would have been a record quarter for them.
So very solid performance and very good backlog.
That was off-set by the equity capitals market business with its headwinds and over-the-desk commissions remain challenging this quarter.
And also headwinds in our flagship practices of reeks and energy where the market has been tougher in terms of new issues.
Weve also made significant investments primarily in this quarter by adding bankers in our life science financial services energy and government services practice.
Just to put it in scale with 80 senior bankers adding a dozen of them basically most of them in this quarter is a big investment but one where you get great people when you bring them on board.
Asset management the net revenues were $98.8 million up 8% from last year and 5% from the preceding quarter.
Pre-tax of $31.6 million was up 1% from last years quarter and 1% from the sequentially.
And the great results impacted by a successful closed end fund distribution fee cost that impacted the quarter and investment.
Very very good and also highlighted by the acquisition of Kruger.
We welcome the Kruger Group and Dr.
James Breech and his team Tyrena James.
Because they have a model at delivery program their assets do not hit our financial assets under management but a great group of people.
RJ Bank record net revenues of $103.9 million up 13% from last years quarter and 1% sequentially.
Pre-tax of $78 million up 20% from last years quarter and 9% sequentially.
Total loans are down slightly essentially flat.
Both credit quality and our net income margins continue to improve which Jeff will talk on.
So if you look at all of our business units they all performed well with the exception of the tough quarter for equity capital markets.
But all the drivers are in great shape and I feel good about not only what they did this quarter but where were headed.
With that I am going to turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Paul.
Im just going to address some of the significant variances from the consensus model.
First of all I will say they are fewer than normal which we view as a good thing.
Either we had fewer surprises than normal or our covering analysts are getting very good at projections and given the audience I will lean towards the latter.
With respect to the revenue lines except for the other revenue virtually all revenue lines were within low single digits of expectations.
And the other line as many of you have already pointed out in your comments really relates to the ARS gains that I mentioned at the Analysts Investor Day in May as well as some PG valuation gains that are slightly elevated.
A little lower than last quarter but higher than our normal quarters.
Aside from that revenues were all pretty much in line with expectations.
Couple of more items on the expense side.
I would characterize this quarter on the expense side generally as one of above average level of investment.
A good portion of that was in people.
We have seen 123 net FA increase weve talked about that.
As well as at least a dozen significant ECM hires here till date most in the most recent quarter.
Coupled with we had higher commission revenues than projected so that increase has come.
And the commission growth in PCG came about two and a half to one in favor of the independent contractor division which elevates the pay-out level somewhat.
So all that boils down to a comp ratio of about 68.2% for the quarter a little above our 68% target.
We are at 67.9% year-to-date so we are still running close to target in all these periods but this particular period a little elevated as a lot of these people that weve hired are obviously arent yet producing the level of revenues that we expect in the future.
Another area of investment would be in IT.
Unfortunately thats not necessarily going to be an immediate revenue generator.
Particularly in some of the systems there is a small spike this quarter related to some outsourced regulatory projects.
When we have some of these projects that we think need to be done on a fairly timely basis we dont necessarily want to add fulltime headcount or we dont have the bandwidth and sometimes even the expertise perhaps for some of these specialized regulatory projects in-house.
So we outsource some of those projects as a couple of a million dollars related to consulting fees for outsourcing some of those projects that hit in this quarter.
On a year-to-date basis though the data communications expense is running right at $65 million a quarter which is right on top of where it was running in the prior year.
So on year-to-date even that we have told you it is going to be lumpy over the course of the year but on a year-to-date basis it is all very much in line.
Another expense that I guess surprised a lot of people ourselves included to some extent is the loan loss provision.
Which is really the net of several items.
Even though loans were flat for the quarter versus the preceding quarter the loan mix changed somewhat away from commercial industrial loans to securities based loans and mortgage loans which carry lower provisions.
So that was a net positive to the provision.
Another net positive was the recovery that we talked about and you could see it in the press release at the end.
The bank had a significant recovery in the quarter a real estate loan that had been partially charged off.
That was a positive and then going in the other direction we did get the snick examined in the quarter but it was a somewhat non-event.
They reviewed 339 of our credits; they differed on nine of them five of them they rated more harshly four of them they rated more softly than we did.
But as you know we follow the practice of going with the lesser of the two in terms of ratings.
So it cost us a little under $2 million to the provision for the quarter.
And some of those by the way were unfunded revolvers.
Of the five that they rated more harshly three of those were unfunded revolvers.
However the 2 that they rated more harshly plus a couple of more other downgrades that we chose to make during the quarter again I think we do a good job trying to stay ahead of any potential problems thats what lead to the increase in criticized loans from the prior quarter which was about the only negatives that I would say are in the banks entire two pages of statistics there.
So those downgrades that we chose to make and the snick exam results went the other way but when you net all those things together it came out to a net benefit of $3 million in the quarter.
And other expense is another investment that we made the only item of any consequence.
There are a lot of little items in that as you can imagine other expenses is sort of a catch-all for anything that doesnt fit other places but we did make some investments in some new products and asset management where again we expect to get some future asset management fees from.
The tax rate we recalculated for the year to date came to just under 37% which required us to adjust it in this quarter down about a percent or a percent and a half from where we had been running so it came in at 36% to get us to the correct year-to-date figure.
Again there were a number of items that impacted that but we kind of steered towards 37% or 37.5% for the year so were running pretty close to that on a year-to-date basis.
There was a slight jump in basic share count which was unusual in this quarter and that was really a result of some of the Morgan Keegan three year RSU retention boards vesting in early April.
The next and last [pronts] of those will be two years from this quarter when some of the capital markets five year retention awards are left.
All that boils down to a pre-tax margin of 15.8% for the quarter 15.3% year-to-date so above our 15% targets.
ROE was 12% for the quarter 11.5% for the year-to-date so were running close to target.
A couple of other things that I will mention this real quickly net interest was a record $109.4 million as the bank continues to grow in their net interest margin stays at the level that it has been recently of 3.09%.
Cash balances really havent increased that much its really been more of the bank generated and some spread to that record.
And lastly for those that didnt happen to see and I know most of you did and made comments we did file our stress test results in June which showed pretty strong capital ratios even in stressed conditions which I think most of you werent expecting them to show.
So those are my comments on the things that varied on the consensus model.
Paul? Thanks Jeff.
Before I turn over to questions just I would like to summarize first.
The private client group business from great recruiting and as I talked about before more importantly the retention with the asset record asset levels about to swell and the recruiting momentum is still very solid I would not expect this number a recorder but our pipeline is really good and people are continuing to still visit the office so still optimistic about future recruiting.
In capital markets we had a very solid backlog especially in public finance.
The equity capital markets backlog is good I would say its exceptional public finance right now.
And of course anytime theres investment banking the kind of transactions the timing is always suspect to when the transactions happen that I feel good about where were sitting at right now.
Also record assets under management I think will bode well for our asset management group and the bank is taking great shape and should continue to grow.
We add loans or we have opportunities that need our credit quality which were very strict on and in quarters where we dont fine them or we have pay-offs you dont see growths like this quarter but were very very comfortable where the bank sits.
The last line I am sure will come up for comment from the department of labor because theres so much press on it.
I would say there is nothing new to report outside of that the department of labor has openly stated in the last week that they are open to discussion and interpretation.
I think theres been a lot of political and even regulatory other agencies pressures saying the rule need to be modified.
We will see what happens so the comment period is just closing there will be some testimony and hopefully we will be in a place where there is a modification where we are all very comfortable.
Which while I think it is good intent but as published is not a very good way of achieving the results especially since it would cut off access to advice to a lot of customers.
So with that I will go ahead and turn it back to Maria to open up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Christian Bolu of Credit Suisse.
Good morning Paul good morning Jeff.
Firstly on the fixed income business the strength there was a clear positive and nicely outpaced what we have seen at the big banks.
Youve always said you have an 18 play in the B markets how would you describe the current environment? Is it a C D A market and how sustainable is it? I think for the core you probably have a D market.
There is enough volatility that people are doing things.
And our platforms are different from the big banks with our bank distribution channel and merely an origination business with public finance.
But this market will certainly improve in terms of the volatility expectation and commission lines to start.
Its gone up for a while and continues to stay up.
The trading profits have been about the same but its really been driven by increased commission volume and our guys have stayed close to the clients and I think when the opportunity came we got our fair share of more of the business.
They are doing a good job and I am proud of what they have accomplished.
Okay thats helpful.
And just on the DOL proposal I heard your comments earlier but I just want to dig into two things you noted in your comment letter that you filed up just about a week ago.
One was just the cost of compliance and two was the impact of some product exclusions.
So my questions are can you help us size or give us your framework on how you are thinking about compliance costs and then two is what is the revenue contribution of things like options structured notes and hedge funds to your business today? Thank you.
First on the ladder they are not a significant part of our product sweep for clients.
So theres some high network clients and these only affect the IRA accounts where typically those are where products arent in but they are in some.
Its hard to estimate the impact especially when you have a rule thats not really written.
Even if it passed as it is the prohibited transaction exemption would have to be written and how it was written.
The problem is if you read the rule and base value the disclosure and the estimating that you would have to do on every single product and how you disclose it would take time from an ITs perspective can be very costly.
We think theres much more cost effective ways of displaying those types of fees which we already do in general terms and we can get a lot more granular our clients see them but what they are asking for is so  youd have to be so precise you would be inaccurate on how these costs and fees were allocated.
So that is the costly part and we have no idea until the final regulation as to what that cost would be or frankly if we could even afford to service some of the accounts  the smaller accounts  where we dont really make money.
If we want to service the accounts it might make them too costly too risky to actually service and that is our concern with the rule as its written.
Okay.
Thank you thats helpful.
And then lastly from me clearly the new advisor momentum is very strong help us think about the economic distribution of these advisors coming on board.
Is the productivity level of the new guys you bringing on board about the same or higher than the current average? How long does it take these advisors to ramp up to full productivity and are there any additional costs we should be keeping in mind as the advisors ramp up? Yes I think that in general they are slightly more productive.
We currently have some huge teams that are very productive.
In terms of extra costs outside of A caps to bring accounts in theres not really a bunch of extra costs.
Theres certainly transition or it depends where it is.
If its an independent advisor we certainly dont have the real-estate costs.
If its an employee it depends if we are opening a new office or adding him to an office where frankly theres even more of uplift if there is an existing office because we are leveraging existing costs and real-estate.
So theres not an unusual transition and then the advisors bring over their assets in about a year it takes them a few months and they get a lot of their assets and then they trickle in over the next year.
Usually by two years they have got more assets than they had when they joined us so what you see in the recruiting pipeline is just really starting to impact the results because if they bring assets over as they move their clients here we get the growth.
So there is even a lag effect.
Thats great and then comments on the strong business momentum.
We have got great momentum; I dont know what to say.
I tell our people that we are  I think the culture thats been dealt here by Tom and team for many years now thats paying off.
Were in the right place at the right time where we have the technology and the products to support all advisors and the very high end advisors that are joining us and we have the culture that they like.
We are client-centric and our job is to help service and help the advisor.
And we are very balanced in our approach on whats fair to clients whats fair to the advisor and whats fair to us and so again our existing advisors who have been here a long time are the ones who help us grow that culture and help us to attract new advisors to do hopefully the same.
So we are at the right place and at the right time in this market and the momentum is very very good right now.
I hear you; I was just congratulating you on that.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Miller of Macquarie.
Hi good morning.
I appreciate the color on the snick review.
I had a couple of other questions about the bank one of which is that it looks like weve seen some softer economic conditions in Canada can you just remind us the types of loans youre tending to extend there and some detail on the comparison on the yields relative to the U.S.
loans and what demand is looking like up in Canada for loans? Hi Hugh its Steve Raney good morning.
Related to Canada I would say the profiles of the deals up there look very similar to the deals in the U.S.
with a couple of exceptions.
I would say the structure of the C&amp;I the corporate loans up there probably have a little bit  we dont see as many coveted light transactions the banks tend to be more rigorous in terms of the structure in terms of the governance.
Typically a little bit lower leverage and actually slightly higher margins.
I would say that the real-estate transactions that we do up there are identical.
About to retain and individual project finance business up there I would say for the first six months of our fiscal year things were a little bit slow up there.
As you mentioned things have gotten a little bit soft but we have actually seen a pick up here.
Recently our pipeline of deals in Canada has actually picked up over the last 60 days or so.
And once again I think its a good counter-balance for us to have an opportunity to play in that market now is a good counter-balance to everything else that we are involved in at the bank.
So we are very committed to Canada and think that thats a good long term business for us to be in.
Very helpful color.
And you guys obviously mentioned in the press release that C&amp;I lending was a bit softer relative to some of the security based and other loans you mentioned about the pipeline for Canada which was looking like it was picking up a bit.
Can you just talk about it in general the C&amp;I loan pipeline and how thats trending recently? Yes Hugh.
I would say some of the reduction was kind of self-imposed.
We did see a higher run off rate this last quarter.
When I say self-imposed there were deals that were re-pricing that we elected to exit.
We just didnt think the risk returns paid off was appropriate the lower rates.
Weve actually seen an increase in our pipeline in our C&amp;I domestic business as well here recently over the last 30 days or so.
We will continue to stay active here in this space that we play in.
That is not [Indiscernible] on that higher end leverage document particularly we dont want to go down that path to the extent that the market comes back to us we will take advantage of those opportunities.
We are pretty active in the secondary market.
When we see higher rated credits and better credits that the price comes down around par or maybe a little bit less we take advantage of adding the positions on a selective basis as well.
So we can be pretty nimble in that way.
I would just say that relative to the pipeline that we have got in place today even though we can never predict pay offs very accurately I would anticipate a couple percentage point increase in the overall loan portfolio perhaps for the next quarter.
It is dependent on a lot of things.
Okay thats very helpful thank you.
And Paul I guess you mentioned that the public finance backlog you guys get and categorize as exceptional I was wondering if the feeling was that it is some opportunistic borrowing ahead of retailing higher or is it more a function of the economy might be getting stronger.
Maybe municipalities are looking at doing more borrowing.
Any thoughts there? Probably a little of both theres no doubt that any municipality has borrowing needs but the question is how? Is it going to pick up a lot of borrowing with the banks for a while just because it was quicker and cheaper to execute and we do some [Indiscernible] credits that we like and clients will do some lending.
But theres just the pickup I think across the board right now.
So I think that maybe its in anticipation of rates.
Id certainly if I was looking at long term financing would look at to do something in this market.
So I think that is driving part of it.
Okay and obviously you guys had an exceptionally strong recruiting quarter you did mention in the press release that you think very aggressive competition and we have been certainly been hearing about that as well.
But I was wondering if you could give some comments about how that competition has changed over the last three to six months and whether or not you guys are still sticking with your upfront recruiting packages have those changed at all and  that would be great.
With our comment weve had aggressive competition for a long time so this isnt a new phenomenon.
The last few years I would categorize that in the market.
We have stuck to our packages; we have made no changes over the last year.
We are very focused on making sure its a good economic deal for us and we are well aware we are lower in the stream but in a way its a positive self-selection criteria that people are not coming for the biggest check they are coming here because they want to be here.
And it doesnt mean we dont lose some teams wed like to have because some of those checks are awfully big but the people that like the culture and want to be prosperous over the long term ends up taking the deal and coming.
So we havent made changes to that.
I would say its a combination of technology and products that were able to serve.
A high or even just an acknowledgement when you start landing a lot of these large teams.
Its a signal to the other people in the market to come in and ask why did they come what is Raymond James doing? So then certainly the recruiting momentum builds on it.
So often its helping to tell our story.
Great color thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Devin Ryan of JMP Securities.
Hey guys good morning everyone.
At the recent investor day you spoke to looking at expanding the advisory business in the UK potentially through acquisitions or something that would look like maybe Lane Berry in the U.S.
So just curious about an update on this front.
Are you still having dialogue there and thoughts around your growing advisory in the UK? We want to grow an advisory in the UK; we havent found anything that meets our culture first price and immigration criteria.
Weve found some cultural bits but not anything that we believe is attractive so we stay close like we do to firms here that we think fit Raymond James will be a great home for us but were just not willing to do things that are priced that we think isnt a good return for shareholders.
I am sure short term the results look good but we treat the money like its our money and we are shareholders.
But we havent found that opportunity so we havent done anything.
We still have been perusing some M&amp;A firm opportunity in the UK and Europe and it continues to be one of our strategic initiatives to grow our cross border M&amp;A business.
So that stays on our radar and were actively talking to a lot of firms but were just slow in doing something.
This isnt about a short term hit.
Its got a long term addition to the team that will help us to continue to grow the business.
So well continue to be aggressive in looking but very deliberate on executing.
Okay thanks for the update.
And then maybe a bigger picture on capital deployment.
All the ratios continue to build during the quarter and obviously youre looking at acquisitions so I understand that maybe theres some level thats pegged for that.
And then you also believe in a strong liquidity position just for financial visors but is there any more discussion or contemplation around maybe moving some of the off balance sheet customers cash into the bank increase earnings.
I know I have asked this before but I am trying to think about other ways to drive some equal amount of returns with a doting capital position.
No we look at all sorts of things.
Theres no doubt that we could put cash in the bank and grow it off its capital base.
We could take  we dont really go out on securities and we could take security positions that are longer.
To get income we could do that in the holding company or in the bank.
There are lots of things we could do.
We could not hedge a lot of our rate risk.
Which we do which costs us money.
Were just not going to take those risks.
We tell our clients not to take a lot of rate risks; we just dont do it here at Raymond James either.
So yes there are lots we could do and we would look good for a while and we could cross our fingers and hope we look good long term but were more focused on the long term execution and then not taking those kind of risks.
I am not saying theyre bad risks there are people that do them but its not in our nature.
What you see is what you get here.
We also know you can grow the bank.
Its frustrating as we try to hit double digits to be just under double digits.
So we know we can do it the banks will grow but were sticking to our discipline on loans and we are sticking to our discipline on capital allocation for the bank.
I remind people that our executive team that half of their restricted stock which is taken out of their bonuses every year is tied ROE and so were as focused on ROE as you are but were more focused on that long term return.
We watch capitals discussed at every board meeting we have recognized that we do have some excess capital balances and so were not dismissing it and I am sure we will be discussing it in the November board meeting but theres really no update on it.
And with respect to liquidity I would just remind you that we do have a $250 million note issue that matures in April of 16 and then a year after that in March of 17 we have got the ability to call our 6.9% $350 million debt issue out there.
So those are on the horizon as potential uses of liquidity.
Okay appreciate all that color.
And then just maybe lastly for me for Steve with respect to the net interest margin should we maybe think there was some upward pressure heading out of the quarter just try to think about it as a go forward on the NAM with all the moving parts there.
And then theres a little bit of a pickup in the size of the loans.
I was just curious if there was any specific sector that drove that or what was behind that? Hi Devin good morning.
I would say yes there is pressure on NAM; were trying to be disciplined.
As I mentioned in terms of the new loans that were adding on I think that theres likelihood that well see some nominal small reduction in that interest margin over the next couple of quarters but nothing too meaningful.
I would say on the criticize loan front Jeff alluded to there was no real sector.
There were three loans two of which were part of the downgrades in the shared national credit exam process.
One other term loan that we downgraded ourselves during the quarter ending to criticize status none of that was in any one industry.
It was all over the board.
There was a consumer products company; there was a data centre so it was kind of all over the board.
And again I think our credit metrics are really strong.
You can look at the absolutes of the movements which I call rounding.
You move alone into the category and have material presented impact because the number is not that big to start with.
We were very encouraged by our non-performing assets coming down.
As Jeff mentioned before we had a large real estate loan that we had actually partially written down that we actually got a full recovery on during the quarter of full pay off that was a material improvement.
So we feel good about our asset quality still.
Thanks and I appreciate you guys taking the questions.
Ill talk to you guys soon.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
Hey good morning guys.
Just I wanted to maybe talk a little bit about expenses.
The comp.
ratio if you exclude option and security gains which I wouldnt think wed pay our comp on and I would think the comp ratio and private equity is also get lighted and what it is in the rest of the organization it seems like you are close to the 69% comp ratio which would be one of your highest ratios in a few years.
So I am just trying to get a sense obviously its a great recruiting quarter.
And if recruiting continues at this pace can you get that back to your target of 68 or should we expect some elevated comp ratios for a little while until the growth kind of offsets it? I dont see a fundamental change.
I mean in this quarter to the extent that we get heavy recruiting in the independent channel its going to drive that ratio.
We certainly had elevated comp ratios in the equity capital markets because of the hiring and probably little bit of underperformance in terms of growth and revenue and challenge over the debt commission.
So I dont  Hopefully well see a continued drive from PCG recruiting to where wed like to keep recruiting at a high level even if its a drag on current earnings it certainly strengthens the platform for the next leg of the market.
That happened even in 09 when we were making significant investment in people in that market environment.
I hope that continues to write it as a current drag on earnings.
I doubt well see this level of hiring in equity capital markets recur.
So that one is a matter of waiting for the people that we have hired to be productive.
The irony is when you grow organically whether its private clients or capital markets it has a short term drag.
With your acquisitions you may have some costs in a quarter but the drag comes off and its the same with the bank.
If you do a loan portfolio we have the provision expense.
So we do have some short term hits when we have high growth in one of the segments and I think thats most of the impact youre seeing this quarter.
No absolutely.
Okay I appreciate the color and just maybe on the non-comp side forgive me if Ive missed this but I think last quarter that we talked about communication and info processing was elevated as we accelerated some advertising.
It was up even more this quarter.
I think you highlighted some regulatory spending but I think you were sort of assuming longer term closer to 60 and lower to mid 60s versus upper 60s.
Is that still a good run rate going forward or should is that going to remain elevated? I think that current run rate is probably about right for the year-to-date probably maybe the mid 60s.
By the way the advertising and all was in business development expenses.
I am sorry.
The [Indiscernible] for the three quarters will remain at $65 million where I think weve been guiding the quarterly run rate.
This one is a little higher but we think that run rate is a reasonable run rate.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey of KBW.
Good morning guys.
I apologize if I missed this earlier but I really wanted to follow-up one question on the comp expense.
Jeff did you say earlier that the commission revenue was primarily driven by independent contractor activity and that drove a chip in the comp mix? The increase in the quarter in the PCG commissions was about 2.5 to 1 that11 point something versus 4 something  [Indiscernible] something in the contractor versus in the four something in the employee division which obviously prized higher comp associated with it.
They got about an 80% payout versus 50% type payout in the employees channel.
I mean is this something that could continue and be a bit of headwind on comp versus [Indiscernible] more one time.
Yes we had pretty good recruiting results and it may in the short run but in the longer term it will become productive.
My guess is it will be about where it is because they are both recruiting at about the same rate right now.
So this particular quarter just had an abnormal imbalance.
I hope we continue the recruiting rate at the cost of that quarter.
I dont think what we accomplished was an anomaly in terms of recruiting but we had a lot of people come in one quarter.
Great thanks for answering my questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Chris Harris of Wells Fargo.
Hey guys a quick question on Department of Labor.
I believe you guys and many; many others in the industry are fairly supportive of a uniform fiduciary standard as opposed to sort of the bifurcated approach weve got now with the DOL on one side and the SEC on the other.
I get it that having the uniform standard would really solve the inter-agency regulatory conflicts and reduce complexity.
But I am also just wondering if you did have something like that would it not really force the majority of your customers in the industry into the fee model as opposed to the commission.
And so just trying to square those two.
Obviously advantages on one hand but on the other it might be disruptive if uniform fiduciary ends up dragging a lot more people under the fee model.
I dont think.
First we have always been  I think our industry is we have always been looks in the best interest of the clients.
So whether you all the clients best interests standard or fiduciary model whatever.
Our job is to do good work for the clients period.
Being held to that standard is nothing.
We think we have held to it now.
And whether its commission or fee based depends.
So if someone wants to buy an Apple stock or some Wal-Mart stock for and leave it with there for five years why should they be charged an offset management fee? And so they can go fee based.
Why should they pay every year for five years? And then they belong  long term hold assets.
So commission certainly has its place in compensation.
I think whats more important is the clients interest.
But first and its fully disclosed how they are being paid and why they are doing things.
So I think this over simplification; that Feel good and commission is sad.
We went to amide off incident and he was fee based.
So yes over simplification of whats in the best interest of the client.
So thats what were fighting were fighting for the clients choice.
Frankly for economics commission is good for a lot of accounts and yes it could be abused so can C be abused.
You need to have good advisors looking after their client.
Understood.
Thank you.
Im showing no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Great guys I know lots of earnings coming out last week and this week but thanks for your thoughtful questions and youre following us.
I hope we could answer all your questions I just characterized.
I feel very good about the quarter especially when you look at the key driver of assets the advisors and the investments were making.
I know sometimes quarter to quarter is choppy and that you have to look at sequential quarters but if you look at the year as a whole I think were right on an extent and if you look at whats driving us forward given any reasonable market going forward I think were in great shape.
So thanks for joining the call and well talk to you soon.
Thank you.
This concludes todays quarterly call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the Earnings Call for Raymond James Financial Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015.
My name is Challis and Ill be your conference facilitator today.
This call is being recorded and will be available on the companys website.
Now I will turn the conference over to Paul Shoukry Head of Investor Relations at Raymond James Financial.
Thanks [Terese].
Good morning and thank you for taking your time out of your busy schedule to join us this morning.
We certainly do not take your time or interest in Raymond James Financial for granted.
After I read the following disclosure I will turn the call over the Paul Reilly our Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Julien our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks they will ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives business prospects anticipated savings financial results industry or market conditions demands for our products acquisitions anticipated results of litigation and regulatory developments or general economic conditions.
In addition words such as believes expects anticipates intends plans projects forecasts and future conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statements necessary depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q which are available on the SECs website at sec.gov.
So with that I will turn the call over to Paul Reilly our CEO of Raymond James Financial Paul? Thanks Paul and thanks for that rousing opening to get us all awake and going here.
I want to make a few comments over the year and quarter and then I am going to turn it over to Jeff who will go into details and then talk a little bit about looking forward after Jeffs finished.
So let me start with the year lot of records record net revenue of 5.2 billion record net pretax of 798 million record net income of 502 million or $3.43 per diluted share.
Record net revenue for each one of our core segments and record pretax earnings for all of our core segments except Capital Markets which had its second best year ever behind 2014.
So if you look at the year in kind of summary net revenue is up 7% pretax up 7% in really a difficult market.
As one of our directors said on the conference call just another Raymond James year as I believe continue to perform in difficult times.
By segment the private client group segment which ended up with a record number of financial advisors of 6 596 which were also -- is our record net increase excluding acquisitions of 331 advisors over the prior year.
That results in almost 225 million of trailing 12 production while keeping our [gradable] attrition less than 1%.
And as you know advisor count and growth is a driver of our business not only does it impact PCG but our Asset Management and Bank segments as well.
The strong recruiting results enable us to grow client assets both in the private client group and asset management and despite a 2% to 3% decline in the equity markets; we were up 1% in assets.
And as you know from other firms reporting were a very small group that was able to grow assets I think one other so for.
Just proves that we continue to gain share by offering a robust platform and keeping this great Raymond James culture.
In Capital Markets little more mixed.
On the positive side record M&amp;A revenues for the year record tax credit funds syndication fees and a record year on our public finance business.
And this is despite the challenging markets that everyone has talked about in fixed income our institutional fixed income commissions actually increased 15% in 2015 and our trading profits remained resilient especially compared to what we've heard from other firms.
On the other hand the equity underwriting was challenging.
Industry volumes was down particularly for us with very strong energy in real estate sectors that which were even harder hit the weakness caused underwriting revenues to be down 26% compared to last year.
And you have to remember as you know that equity underwritings also negatively impacts our institutional commissions which were down 5% despite an increase in over-the-desk commissions.
Furthermore decrease in equity underwritings negatively impacts private client group as new issued sales credits in the segment were down 15% compared to 2014.
If you add those impacts that underwriting impact was nearly $15 million negative to our comparison in fiscal '14.
At the Bank record net loans just under $13 billion which represented growth of 18.5% in fact just in the September quarter we grew by almost 8% which should help future results.
But as you know in the accounting conundrum of banks as you put on loans you put on loan loss reserves and that 13.3 million impacted short-term results although the credit quality continues to improve.
Non-performing assets declined nearly a third now representing 39 basis points of total bank assets versus 46 last September.
So overall we were able to grow both net revenues and pretax by 7% and hit almost all of our financial targets.
Pretax margin was 15.3% better than our 15% target.
Our compensation ratio to net revenues was 67.8% better than our 68% target.
And the only target we missed was ROE of 11.5% short of our 12% target and this was driven by our high capital levels which I know well discuss later whether I discuss them or not because you will ask but in the environment we think 11.5% ROE is attractive return for our shareholders particularly on a relative basis and believe overtime putting this capital to work can even elevate that return.
Let we touch on the fourth quarter record net revenues were 1.34 billion net income of a 129.2 million or $0.88 per diluted share.
Record net revenues for private client group asset management and RJ Bank segments and the second best net revenue year for the Capital Markets segment which missed a record by only 537 000 behind the quarter set a year ago September.
Pretax margins 15.4% with all segments showing sequential increase in pretax except the bank which again was due to the large loan loss provision.
So overall our revenues exceeded expectations in the quarter and we are able to keep our comp ratio below 68% although our expenses did grow faster and that was really driven by two items to sound like a broken record once again a loan loss provision in the bank and the other is our communication information processing expense of 70.4 million and that was up year-over-year and sequential.
And that's attributable really to two factors as we're continuing to invest in our technology systems which we think has really been paid off in our recruiting and we have increased some of our regulatory systems and [our early] streamline that process as well.
In the private client group recruiting remains very vibrant.
We had an 89 net financial advisors which really enforced our investments are paying off.
Despite the strong accreting results client assets were down 5% on a sequential basis due to a decline in the equity markets.
Before we've seen some recoveries this month but as you know our fee based accounts are built in advanced and the balances are getting in the quarter in those fee based assets such were down 4% which should provide some starting headwinds starting next quarter.
In capital market segments all of our businesses performed well except equity underwriting again in fact M&amp;A and tax credits had record quarters.
Asset management financial assets under management declined by 7% this was a decline in the market and the market declines particularly were punitive to small in midcap products where we have a focus on equals and we had some outflows in the quarter accentuated by a large loss in the last week of a quarter of an institutional account.
Once again this will impact the December quarter to approximately two thirds of managed assets are built in advance based on the balances.
So and then at the bank again very solid quarter of growth.
I want to remind that we have a very disciplined and opportunistic loan growth.
I know it's not growing in straight line and while the production was good this quarter really the payoffs were significantly down which drove a lot of net growth in the quarter.
So I believe a very good evening quarter to a very good fiscal year.
And now I'd turn it over to Jeff to provide a little more detail on some P&amp;L items.
Jeff? Thank you Paul.
We appreciate those of you who share your models with us it enables us to put together kind of a consensus model for the quarter which helps us determine which things we need to focus on this call so please continue to do so for those of you havent please adopt the practice because it's help us to know what you're thinking.
I'll talk about some of the significant deviations from the consensus expectation model for the quarter and I'm [calling] significant things that are 5% or more away from expectations.
Within the revenue section virtually all the revenue items were ahead of expectations with the exception of our largest which is securities commissions and fees which really showed no growth from the preceding quarter whereas some growth was anticipated.
Again not a 5% deviation but as our biggest line item worthy of mention.
That was kind of a result of a mixed bag of items equity secondary market commissions were up institutionally given the volatility in the equity markets towards the end of the quarter.
Fees in the private client group were up as the billing dates was about 2% higher than it was in the June quarter when we built it in the beginning of the September quarter.
And then on the negative side fixed income institutional commissions were lower mutual fund trails which are based on average assets for the quarter and adjusted downward and underwriting which impacted both institutional and private client group was weaker.
All in all came at about flat with the preceding quarter.
Investment banking came in well above expectations you can see in some of the detail provided in the press release it was really driven by the strong M&amp;A and record tax credit fund quarter at $20 million somewhere offset by the client in equity underwriting fees.
But very strong in terms of M&amp;A and tax credit fund enough to overcome the underwriting weakness.
[indiscernible] profits came in kind of consistent with prior quarters recent quarters at least although for some reason perhaps based on others results was projected down or came in pretty much in line with where it had been at little $5 million or $6 million per month and so our fixed income trading has been fairly consistent throughout this market and these market cycles so nothing spectacular there to talk about just its continued its current trend.
And then in other revenues again we had some private equity valuation gains that were not projected this is a little less than the preceding quarter and obviously the preceding quarter had pretty good sized gain from some ARS redemptions that did not recur in this current quarter but nonetheless still a reasonable quarter in the other revenues section.
In the expense side most of those unfortunately were also higher than expectations first I'll talk about -- Paul talked about comp came in pretty much right on expectations and under our target comp ratio for the quarter and year.
Communication info processing came in a little higher than we had thought as well we continue to incur some consulting fees on numerous projects some developmental and some regulatory related we're starting to see the amortization of some of the previously completed projects start to hit the books and when those come online [technically] for purchase software and things like that we end up starting with the maintenance fees as well so we would -- I mean as Paul talked about going forward we would certainly probably steer modeling towards the current run rate versus where we were in the prior year.
On average we were between 66 million 67 million a quarter last year with this probably the most recent quarter is more indicative of a run rate going forward for the present time.
We talked about the bank loan loss provision.
I know we put out the monthly statistics and you saw $300 million in bank loan growth through two months of the quarter and we ended up with $935 million for the quarter.
So obviously we had a very big month of September and that caught everybody by surprise in terms of the provision expense related to that growth.
But in our way of thinking that's a not bad way not a bad expense to miss as long as its growth related and not credit related.
And we had several other expense categories that were 3% to 4% higher occupancy business development and other expenses and things like that and again we might steer the occupancy is going to creep up as we open new locations as we continue to spread into the west and the northeast.
Business development is indicative of the high levels of recruiting that we are continuing to experience and others kind of a mixed bag of a lot of things but again most of those categories we might steer you toward the current run rate as seems somewhat indicative going forward.
Couple of other points I would like to mention.
We mentioned the comp ratio that was very pleasing to see that under -- well under 68 for the quarter and for the year.
Paul mentioned the pretax margins above our targets 15.4 for the quarter 15.3 for the year.
Tax rate in this quarter as you know we had an equity market decline towards the [Audio Gap] Gains are non-taxable and losses are non-deductible in that portfolio.
So with the equity losses that elevated the tax rate slightly for the quarter but for the year 37.1% was pretty much in line with the 37% guidance I think we gave at the beginning of the year.
ROE Paul mentioned also I think 11.5% for the quarter and for the year the one target we didnt really achieve and I would certainly add that it was not an R problem it was more of accumulation of E for the year that gave rise to that as you know we had very good earnings for the year.
Our capital ratios which are set forth in the press release remain very strong.
Shareholders' equity has now surpassed $4.5 billion for the first time.
So that's both indicative of our capital and our liquidity position also remains very strong.
I would be remiss not to mention that interest it didnt really deviate much from expectations but at a 113.5 million for the quarter another record for the firm that's indicative of the past bank growth and going forward we will have additional bank growth of course plus because of the equity market declined toward the end of the quarter we had a lot of customer cash flow in as some people exited the market and reallocated their portfolios to more to cash cash went up about $3 billion in the last five weeks of the year to a $35 billion number for the firm overall still just about 8% of private client group assets and thats indicative of stress times in any way.
But that certainly will boost interest earnings going forward even if we dont get rate increases.
And then lastly I think everyone is aware the repurchase of 1.1 million shares late in the fourth quarter which had very little impact on this past reporting period but I have big impact going forward either but we did opportunistically exercise the repurchase committee and that $56 million were the shares at these capital.
So with that I have got a list of things talk about looking forward but I am going to let Paul do that and I will jump if he doesnt cover everything on my list.
Alright.
Good Jeff.
You are correct if I dont get everything on.
Addition.
Correct me if I am wrong.
So little bit kind of outlook into the future.
If you look at where we are today first the private client group segment as you guys noticed rides a lot of our business not just that segment but certainly impacts asset management and the bank.
Our retention really remains best-in-class and we think our advisors are choosing to stay with us and really keeping this great culture alive.
The activity in recruiting remains vibrant.
So we came off of our second best year ever in terms of number of advisors best year and net advisors and we see a lot of high quality teams still in the pipeline and I think both our platform is growing across all channels both the employee independent our financial institutions divisions and RA divisions from what we see right now that growth should be very good this year.
Approximately 75% of our revenues of this segment are recurring in nature.
It's a greater model for advisors and clients but are also dependent on market levels about 50% of those client assets are exposed to the equity markets and about 50% of PCG security commissions and fees are derived from assets and fee-based accounts.
So with the quarter being off 4% in assets December will be a little handicap starting out.
Assets grow should recover both from recruiting and hopefully the market but then I will see where that goes.
In Capital Markets M&amp;A and public finance still very robust in fact most of one month isnt a greater indicator but we are off to a good start.
We are hopeful that significant additions to our investment banking platform made during the year will start to bear fruit this year also.
Our fixed income business continues to generate I think what is exceptionally good results given the market.
Of course the big question is what happens to markets in 2016? If anyone can provide us a chart on market volatility market direction commodity prices and interest rates we can be pretty precise on what will happen next year.
So given that I think our model is very flexible and we seem to do well in those [tall] markets.
Asset management should continue to benefit from our strong recruiting and recruiting momentum and even past recruiting if assets continue to move over from people who have recently joined.
Our gross sales have been healthy but net flows were challenged by the cancelation especially of a large account at the end of the year hopefully that's not recurring.
The market decline in September is going to give us some headwinds.
Our financial assets under management started the December quarter 7% lower so that will certainly impact the start of the quarter.
Raymond James Bank we believe is well positioned for growth I think any quarter we try to give you what loan growth is going to be we are on but balances grew 18.5% over last year portfolio remains strong credit remains strong our net interest margins we think are resilient around 3%.
And for planning purposes we're looking at low -- I am sorry high single-digit or low double-digit growth say 10% but that will depend on what's available in the marketplace in terms of good quality credits.
A lot of people are going to ask about regulatory deal well and despite how active we are and I have to say kind I dont know the good news on this is we have had almost 400 000 comments as an industry received by Department of Labor as Secretary Perez has openly said last week that he is going to considerably revise the proposal but frankly this is one or two provisions that have the most impact on us and those are changed.
They won't have much impact on us my guess is they will not all change and there will be some impact I just can't tell you what that is until we see the final draft of the re-proposal in January and February.
Good news we are seeing to have congressional support on both sides to modify the rule but I think that rule is going to pass in the way it's written no matter what we do from a political standpoint I think Congress will be focused on other bigger fish to fry.
On capital I talked about capital deployment.
You know that that being we have excess regulatory capital.
We have also acknowledged we want to use it to grow our business.
We have been active looking for things that have first a good cultural fit; second a good strategic fit.
But we will only pull the trigger if it's also good economics for shareholder.
Our goal isnt to be bigger; it's to have to invest our capital wisely for good shareholder returns.
We have also said we would be prudent in the use of excess capital and you could see this quarter we did our first opportunistically purchase of about 56 million of common shares which is basically our first opportunistic purchase after financial crisis.
Our management team and our Board specifically proactively manages and we discuss in our point cases.
So kind of in rollup I am kind of proud of what our advisors and associates did for the quarter.
I think it was a good result and we know that there may be challenging markets ahead of us but while as we focus on the clients and their wellbeing which has been the history of Raymond James it ultimately that will be payoff for our clients our associates advisors and our shareholders.
So Jeff I dont know if you have any other corrections or additions before I turn it over to questions? A couple other additions thanks.
Was looking forward we had another very very good year in private equity gains; we had about $48 million.
Certainly I dont think we should expect those levels to continue going forward so I counsel people to be cautious on what they project there.
We really think the growth going forward is going to come from our core business segments.
We added a lot of headcount in ECM and certainly in private client group that we think will become productive here this coming year as well as the bank loan growth kicking into interest earnings and coupled with the bank loan growth with these elevated cash balances which if the market recovers may moderate somewhat but should be -- should average the year quite a bit higher than they did in the preceding year.
So even with -- gain without boost in short-term interest rates we should continue to see improvement in the net interest income lines.
Thanks [Jonathan].
Terese let's turn it over to you for questions.
Yes thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Chubak with Nomura.
So I wanted to spend a little bit of time to talking about the excess capital question which I know comes up on every single call but Paul I know in the last update or one of the more recent updates that you've given you talked about really liquidity being the constraint on capital return and you noted about that you retained excess of above 400 million or so.
I just wanted to understand is that a regulatory constraint or is that a self-imposed constraint that you're managing to? Well a little of both I mean our self-imposed into that the extent that we don't go to the regulatory minimums we've always tapped the excess capital to save above regulatory minimums but that's the number that we feel we can freely invest without any strain on our liquidity or operated model.
Okay so in the context of some of the ratios that we found on liquidity side that the banks are managing too and I recognize you guys are in a CCAR bank specifically but I know liquidity coverage ratio is something that many banks refer to I didn't know if you guys knew where you stood on a metric like that given your balance sheet composition to that.
Hey Steve its Paul Shoukry yes we are as you said are not required to disclose it publicly but as you know some of the rating agencies look at that so we do look at that internally.
We're not going to disclose it publicly I don't think it's still a requirement but as you can imagine we are well above the 100% kind of requirement that the big banks are held to.
So I guess that's all I'll say on that.
And let me add to this when you look at capital I mean if we're purely a bank we wouldn't be operating at these capital levels so I think that you have to recognize the broker dealers have significantly more capital fluctuation I mean liquidity fluctuation than banks typically do in stress periods whether -- on banks.
So you got to be careful applying pure bank ratios to a broker-dealer from.
I understand and well Paul one of the things you have referred to also in the past is that the management team itself is also tied to ROE target.
So are you sure you that your intentions are properly aligned with the shareholders.
I don't know if you guys have -- if you can remind us what those ROE hurdles are today? Yes we've talked about them before our long term one has always been 15% in these markets they've been 12% and so this year our ROE our restricted stock will be unhinged by 11.5% versus 12% it's an index scale so we are aligned but again I think this management team looks long-term and view is still we can put the capital [rework] and we'll see if we can otherwise we'll have to figure out a way to return it to shareholders but that our 12% target has been the target the board has set the last couple of years given the environment and I doubt they'll reduce it.
When interest rates are what we call a more normal level that target will increase probably back to the 15% level.
And then just one more final one from me and apologies if I missed this in the prepared remarks but I did see as a financial service fees I know that there's a seasonality component there and if they come in if it's stronger than expected.
I didnt know if you could speak to what drove some of the strengths in the quarter and how we should be thinking about that heading into your next fiscal first quarter? That bounces around from quarter-to-quarter as you know just depending on accruals of fees from mutual fund companies and other type of fees for example client transaction fees and fee based accounts were up this quarter just given the market volatility so that that bumped up that line item for the quarter.
So there are a lot of different items in that line item so it's hard to kind of isolate any one single item but we do know for example client transaction fees were up this quarter just given the heightened market volatility.
So some are asset based some are account based like [IRAC's] and things like that just based on having an account or small account fees we actually have to fee for accounts that are under economic level for us to maintain and some are asset based.
So it's kind of a mixed bag over the fees in that line item plus the fees from the mutual fund that he's talking about are constantly trying to put new mutual funds on [anonymous] platform which is higher revenues to us and constantly renegotiating the contracts that we have in place with existing funds.
Your next question comes from Will Katz with Citi.
Hi this is actually Brian Delly filling in for Will this morning.
How's it going? So I guess coming back to the capital discussion just wondering what your appetite is for the deals and maybe how we should think about the size and then some recent news article about recently as well I'm not sure if you can speak to them.
Yes.
First we never talk to rumors about us or anybody else so I can't speak to those but the size is almost irrelevant to the quality of the yield first.
Morgan Keegan was our best acquisition in history kind of by a long shot which is a $1 billion that was a big deal for us.
So we tend to do things that are more modest and they have to be cultural fit strategic fit and then price so we actively are in the market we have a corporate development function we talk to a lot of people we've talked about a lot of focus on asset management as an area and some M&amp;A.
So we're active and we want to deploy capital but only if it has a good fit so we are not going to spend it just to be bigger.
And weve been consistent on that so we do believe we can deploy it on the right opportunity when we find it but we just haven't found that opportunity yet.
Got it.
And then can you give us any indication to activity levels into 4Q in particularly around [PCG maybe client flows].
[Client flows] have been pretty steady I think they were down 1% on the equities so that latch was last month I think it was the month before when I saw the report but that's valuation driven alone but it's actually during the big sell off I forget how long ago it was now in August that I was actually surprised pleasantly that client selling market advisors did their job of not having people panic.
So I haven't seen any huge movement in client flows.
I think if you look at overall flows we dont calculate that necessarily for all PCG client assets but one proxy for that is the flows into the nondiscretionary fee based accounts in the asset management segment which serves our private client group segment.
We havent finalized those flow calculations for this quarter yet but for the first three quarters of the fiscal year they were annualizing at around 15% or 16% flow for those nondiscretionary assets in the asset management segment.
Thank you.
And next question comes from Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
I apologize if I missed this earlier.
But can you give us some color on the pickup in the criticized loans.
I know last quarter you talked a little bit about that having some impact from [indiscernible] but just wondering that why we're continuing to see that and if it's just a function of loan growth? Hey Joel.
Steve Raney good morning.
There was not really a general theme we had some upgrades in the quarter where we had three corporate loan downgrades that drove the increase in criticized loans they were in different industries so several themes as you we review each credit on a quarterly basis and we see a deterioration in performance we proactively downgrade into that and that reserves so accordingly.
And have you seen any degradation in the energy loans that you made and can you give us a sense again for the size of that or the portion of your portfolio? Yes Joel.
That portfolio has been pretty stable over the last few quarters and this quarter is consistent with that as well top $450 million in loan outstandings in across a broad spectrum in the energy space.
As we've communicated before we've really shy away from I would say the more risky and many of the loans that have been criticized at some of the other banks and the expiration and production [E&amp;P] faced really have one credit in that sector and actually there is no loan outstandings to that investment grade borrower so it's a very broad and cross section many of those loans are to -- what we think is less risky less volatile and less susceptible to the true commodity price risk where there are more midstream nature take or pay contracts are in place.
We watch that very closely we had added reserves really kind of across the board in that sector despite what we think is actually a well-constructed portfolio.
One of the criticized loans that got added in the quarter I mentioned three one was in the energy space.
Okay great.
And then in terms of just the pick-up that we saw in the tax credits syndication revenues is that just the seasonal thing but does seems to be a bit higher than what we've seen even in recent past quarters.
It's seasonal when it closes because when funds close we get the fees and they are just doing really well we believe we are the largest syndicator of tax credit funds right now that's not syndicating them for internal use in banks and its doing well and its backlog is very-very good.
They are very good at what they do.
But it is lumpy.
Okay.
And then just lastly from me and again if you have mentioned this before I apologize but I think last quarter you described the public finance pipeline as exceptional is it that still the case given the rates you havent pushed out.
Yes the public finance has been really had the just their strongest quarter this last quarter and backlog looks good in the particularly the M&amp;A backlog looks very good healthy even stronger so.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Hugh Miller with Macquarie.
Good morning.
Couple of questions I guess one first one the PCG we were hearing about kind of a large peer that was considering kind of a garden leave clause in their pay plan for 2016.
I was wondering are you guys seeing any benefit on the recruiting side for the pipeline because of that or brokers from that business kind of considering make me a change or is that not been impactful at all? I think that I know that someone was considering it; I don't think its been done.
But anything like that is great for us so we can add a garden leave provision except that we tell the advisors they own the assets they can leave anytime they want.
So its not pretty attractive for us.
But anytime we see competitors trying to put in clauses like that or what I call so institutionalize accounts by indirectly pushing products or product goals for managers its all been great for us and great for our recruiting because weve been boring and have kept the same kind of attitude and platform throughout our history of the -- that the advisors own the clients and that were here to help them.
So I cant specifically address that one.
Ive heard it come up that recruits from places that theres been discussion.
And certainly it doesnt hurt us when they do that.
Am I thinking about it correctly initially you potentially see a benefit as people re-explore their options.
But I guess I would have to think that it would be extremely difficult to them transition your book of business once that was in place; for the longer term does that -- could that create a meaningful headwind for people having a flexibility to pick and choose and move to new locations? Sure if it was instituted well and people had to sit out I don't know for how long and people actually sign the agreement and there wasnt an out because they changed pricing and fees in such a way that was a change in contract or we can go on and on and on and on.
So hypothetically yes.
Just like some institutions thought were giving 250% retention bonuses would anchor their advisors down.
When those came off that hasnt been the case.
So I would say theoretically yes.
One I don't know if they can implement it without a revolver; and secondly what they do what the terms or breach or changes would be.
So conceptually it would be something that helps people stick hasnt helped a lot in investment banking which is common in Europe to have those for a long time; its worked its way over here.
But in the private wealth I think it would be a barrier people can successfully put them in.
Got it that's interesting color on the dynamics there.
Its helpful.
And then shifting to couple of questions on the bank obviously we saw very strong growth on CRE and CRE construction.
I was wondering if you can talk about if there is one of those two that was seeing stronger demand.
And you also mentioned the impact of kind of lower prepays -- or repayments during the quarter.
Can you just help us quantify the differential in the net loan growth and what that difference was between new originations versus slower repays? Yes good morning.
Its Steve Raney again.
The real estate growth is really split really evenly between our loans to REITs and then loans to individual projects.
As it relates to the repayments in the quarter and the growth we actually only made about 250 million more in loans in the September quarter versus the June quarter.
And as Paul alluded to the pay off and the run off in the September quarter was substantially lower.
Part of that run off in the June quarter that was maybe our highest ever was somewhat self-imposed.
There was a very large wave of re-pricings in the market.
And some of those loans we just decided to exit because we didnt think that going forward rate was the appropriate interest rate that we should be earning on that for that asset net the risk.
So our runoff was down.
The annualized runoff in the corporate portfolio in June was 44% and this quarter last quarter was about 15% which was actually abnormally low; its usually about 25%; that's what weve seen historically over the last few years.
So highly unusual; I have two quarters linked together that were that different in terms of runoff amount? But that drove the substantial increase in loan growth for the quarter.
Although we grew loans in all categories our residential mortgage business -- tax exempt loan business growth in all categories.
One other what are you guys seeing I guess in terms of the Canadian operations relative to the U.S.? A tale of probably two businesses up there to the private client group thats doing good recruiting and margins are holding and similar margins actually here which is unusual; I think its unique to our competitors in Canada.
And the investment banking business obviously it has been challenge in the commodity based economy.
So we see a little bit of improvement but obviously at the tougher market weve -- building an M&amp;A practice there which we haven't had a specific one recruited a leader last year and continuing to hire in a market where you can hire people.
So private client group we expect to see some continued growth and the investment banking I guess although will be better when through a challenging period.
And then on the IT or on the expense side you mentioned that some of the regulatory items were driving up some of the IT investment and also some of the consulting fees.
Can you help us quantify that and as we think about heading into next year should we continue to see an acceleration of that investment or should that level off? We think -- Jeff I think said earlier that the run rate is probably a good rate I think somewhere between we were in that number but I would urge the number were running at.
There are no shortages of projects its just a matter of how many we can undertake at once.
I think the most recent quarters probably a good run rate to use going forward.
We can control enough and not let it accelerate much from there.
And then you mentioned that there seems to be a handful or very key provisions within the DOL proposal that would make kind of the most meaningful impact.
Obviously you mentioned that youre uncertain which way theyre going to go with those.
But can you just help us understand the handful that you feel are the most important to focus on have the largest impact on clients and the industry? First the big exception for product commissions is the way its written; its almost unworkable for a lot of sized accounts.
I think the DOL is focused on that.
The concern is even if they adjust it do they really understand the impact since theyre not in the securities business for a living.
But do they really understand the impact its going to how on the broker dealer; can we work under it? The other is that level fees is certainly there has been a discussion DOL is that to be level across the firm for all products which if you look at trails and on the bus and omnibus and all the fees associated with mutual funds its more complex especially around share classes there has been some discussion that that may imply only to the advisor level certainly a lot easier to deal with and dealing with across the firm.
Also an implementation timeline of this about eight months which is almost impossible to rely on some of exemption because our fund families tell us they cant provide the information much less thus providing that in the detailed format they want.
So those are probably the provisions on overall basis.
To the extent all of those are workable thats great; to the extent that they are better but at the end in order to comply with the exception you have to do most of the work anyway has the bigger impact.
And then last for me you guys mentioned I guess about seeing with any asset management segment kind of a substantial client loss of assets maybe someone moving those assets.
I think you mentioned an institutional account.
Can you just give us a sense of what was driving that decision and was it all in one particular fund? We have a great relationship or weve have great net flows and we had some outflows this year.
I mean thats kind of a normal course of business.
We have the Eagle Boston last year that group left and we had half those assets that had an impact.
And then we had a client that just in the end of the year a 20-year client focused on the small and mid-cap shut us to go with different manager so that was probably the more surprise but that happens.
And we get good surprises and bad surprises.
We just had a couple surprises going against us in the last month at the end of the year.
Im sure a term notice was probably the harder one.
But I think fundamentally the business is in good shape and we had good strong flows until that happened.
So we just have to keep chipping away at it.
And were certainly institutionally in lots of proposals and if couple of those come through its good and if you lose some thats bad.
And thats part of the business.
Your next question comes from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Good morning guys.
Could we maybe just talk a little bit about operating leverage? I think recruiting over the last two quarters has I guess probably been the strongest since the merger or acquisition of Morgan Keegan.
And weve seen obviously investment spending upfront is pretty high and so revenue growth.
Earnings growth has been slower than revenue growth as expenses have grown a little faster.
So how do we think about the payback next year? You mentioned that recruiting still remains very vibrant.
Does that mean we still are going to have to wait for returning to positive operating leverage at least how do we think about I guess that dynamic of investment spend versus return? I think we can't give you expense guidance what we can give you is the market guidance.
So generally in a flat market alone recruiting should drive growth.
So what happened this quarter obviously is a big drop in the market.
The recruiting -- its hard to recruit at those levels to overcome that kind of market adjustment even though theyve recovered some this month.
So our view if the market grows at some kind of rate our recruiting should drive good numbers.
If we continue recruiting pace but the market continuesto fall obviously we can't overcome that since half the assets are tied are influenced by equity markets.
So that's the challenge that's protecting the market.
So we're kind of keeping our operating targets the same right now and as the market is really good we'll do better interest rates rise we'll do a lot better if the market goes down it's hard to chase it but we'll be above of a lot of people.
Now a lot of the operating expenses too we can cut costs I mean we haven't at this point we've chosen to kind of keep the numbers we'd given you but certainly if the market goes down we have 68% of our revenues that you can see are variable pretty much are in most businesses and certainly we could cut back on a number of initiatives to save cost but we haven't pulled that trigger yet.
Tim I would say that in a flat equity and interest rate environment for the next year that -- if we recruit at the same level as we did this year we should see some pretty modest operating leverage improvement.
And this is not true just in PCG I mean capital markets had some significant hiring this past year as well and those people have not yet been as productive as they should be in the coming year.
Because we do have a lot of -- some we do have a fair amount of fixed cost that we should gain some operating leverage on but given the scale -- be fairly modest again in -- under those assumptions also with the help from the equity markets or interest rates either one we'll do much better.
Your next question comes from Devin Ryan with JMP Security.
You've always been very disappointed around deal and I know there's a very high bar internally and you spoke to cultural and strategic and financial thresholds but when you think about the financial attracting this as a deal what metrics are you guys looking at or is there a hurdle rate or how should we think about what makes the deal attractive financially? Our goal is always to generate a 15% ROE and that's under -- reasonably conservative assumptions we want to be able to bring the business integrated and generate that kind of return of our investments so I know lot of people will go a lot lower saying it's a strategic initiative or that revenue synergies are going to create all sorts of stuff we tend not to do that we're pretty -- look at the cost look at realistic retention rates and what we can grow the business and if we think we can generate a return and its strategically fit we'll do it.
We're just not [well on the rope] [indiscernible] hope.
So I don't think our returns are out of line but we're not trying to shoot for 25% ROE but we're pretty fairly conservative in the assumptions and there's a good business we can grow and we can hit that 15% plus target it's something we'll do.
Maybe just shifting back to the recruiting momentum is it still primarily wire houses or you can give us any sense of the mix over the past year or so kind of how has much has been wire houses versus other independent and the trailing production [are not seeing] yet in results for the trailing production of the [financial advisors] have been hired.
How does that compare to the existing -- call it average production of the platform? Primary driver is wire houses and it seems to move around that -- that the one with the honors tends to move a little bit and in the last year we've had one that's been significantly better I am not going to name names but and seems to continue to provide us opportunities as they make changes.
But the independence in the independent channel we've had more from non-wire houses that's increased but the significant driver has been kind of wire house.
The averages have continued to stay over our averages.
So they've been that and the increase in average production as you've seen in the improvement I think it's driven by both our advisors becoming more productive and are recruiting to be above our averages.
And maybe a last one for Steve with respect to the net interest margin in the bank and you maybe speak to some of the puts and takes in the outlook.
You had a great quarter of loan growth so how will that play on the forward NIM relative to -- obviously [indiscernible] so I'm just trying to put that all together to think about whether that interest margin maybe goes from here in the near term and then kind of longer term deal.
[Technical Difficulty] in some stabilization I think and we -- hopefully that's going to continue and as I've mentioned even in the prior quarter we're going to be really disappointed around it and if we have to forego some opportunities because margins -- in the right that are being afforded to us are acceptable we'll have to take some path on some loans.
So that being said right now we're pretty encouraged by what we see in terms of the stabilization after a period as you know of pretty significant compression.
So right now pretty stable outlook at least for the next couple of quarters.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Dan Paris with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning guys.
I just wanted to get maybe your updated thoughts on growth of the bank and onboarding of the excess client cash.
I noticed this quarter in particular there were some good growth in securities book I'm sure some of that is mark-to-market but I wanted to know if we should read that as you are getting more comfortable deploying cash and securities essentially extending duration.
Let me first -- we're doing a little more at the bank but we do not believe its a good play to leverage our balance sheet and the securities and take a lot of interest rate risk and create more leverage in the bank and we saw that movie in '09 we're glad we weren't in it and that we could watch it we couldnt totally watch it we had the few chapters ourselves but we stayed out of it the big theme.
And we know we can do it we know we can increase leverage in the banks we know we can get some positive margin short term by taking some modest securities duration risk and we just try to stay neutral on interest rates to the extent we can and we're not interested in doing that we'll be doing a little more of it and I call it very modest it's not a strategy that inflates the balance sheet and onboard cash and try to leverage up the balance sheet.
Got it that's helpful.
And then maybe a follow up so I want to hear your thoughts on what's the right way to think about the loan loss provision from here.
I mean it seems like the reserves the loans have held pretty stable.
Should we just assume the provision it's time to plug in that equation or if credit remains benign can we expect that kind of reserve ratio to migrate downwards? Well as the balance sheet mix stays about the same as it is I think the 130 basis points type of reserve levels going to be pretty consistent if we slowdown the commercial production side and some of the mortgage and [SPLs] become a little more dominant they may dip downward a little bit but as far as based on our production estimates going forward I think the mix will stay about like it is but I'd say 130 is about correct.
Okay got it.
And then maybe just last one from me.
So I want to make sure I have the message right on the non-comp side obviously you are investing heavily in the business which is good for the long term growth I just want to get a sense of how kind of quickly you can turn on or off those investments depending on the revenue back drop.
I know the risk can we get kind of non-comp leverage regardless of the revenue backdrop? Yes.
We are not going to -- we can if we thought there is marginal compression but is a good strategic initiative we know we don't operate quarter-to-quarter in our strategies so we are not going to do it.
If there is a bigger downturn in the market we'll be much more aggressive about it and so our view is I know you guys have to focus on quarter-to-quarter we're kind of focused on the year and five years and building a franchise and value for the shareholders [but it's not] my quarter so I would imagine in our numbers with our anticipation as that we're giving your guidance because we are not going to react to this the one quarter of margins.
If we think there is a continued trend or continued cut then we will react as we have in the past.
Yes.
We went [indiscernible] went through this in the '08 '09 period and as we definitely have room to honker down if that came to that and there is a whole lot of things you can do but they do impact at the levels of service or the levels of investment that you are making and the platform or as delaying projects or doing things and then God forbid you sample trips or conferences and you started being the culture to some extent.
So we're very cautious to do any of those things.
We think a lot of the our success especially on large teams and some of the teams in our pipeline are the largest teams we've ever recruited is a direct function of being able -- or a platform now.
The technology platform will put up against anyone it's not perfect and that thing with the best in all areas but it's certainly from an advisory standpoint at the top of the class.
So we are not going crazy if we went by [refresh] from the business units that number would be a lot higher so I dont want you to think it's not managed we think it's balanced.
But we could delay or slow projects and not all the projects are productive some go discounting nature and other things that you have to do to run your business but they don't impact the business but most of our business [indiscernible] we can adjust a lot of numbers if the market comes down are right now [our intention] is to kind of stick with our run rates and think it's a good bet based on what we feel right now.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
Thanks guys.
I know this call is running long.
I really just had one question and it's on the recruiting and PCG.
When you guys are talking to your advisors the new advisors that have locked in on boarded what are the biggest reasons those advisors are giving you as to why they are joining Raymond James.
And then I'm curious have those reasons changed at all over the last couple of years? Thanks.
I would say the reasons the consistency is culture in the way we treat advisors.
And more than anything I would say one of the big -- if you look at the -- so that's being consistent what's changed there too especially bank based advisors fee or like our institutions or trying to compete more and more with them and dictate how they do business [we ever proceed] but they feel that the multi-channel approach and product kind of as they feel push has accelerated in terms of people looking to us an open platform that doesn't do any of that.
The second Pete is technology I think that's the change -- we always had very good technology for the little market advisor.
I think today we have excellent technology for the high network advisor I am seeing these large teams.
So that difference has been a big differentiator in the influence also.
So I'd say it's a lot of the same with some additional tools that's made the difference to bring people over.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Andrew Del Medico with Autonomous.
You mentioned the two discussions around level fees at the advisor and the firm level is the way you guys read the rule currently do you see that's being [indiscernible] at the firm level or the advisor level? No it's a certainly the way that rule was written was arguably above.
I think the clarification is it wasn't meant to be as constraining and we don't know the answer yet until we see the revised rule so I would say that the deal well has a had a lot of meetings and discussions with us but the fear was that it would apply to both four IRA accounts.
And I guess if it doesn't change -- how would that impact on some -- that you mentioned a lot of the revenue streams that you see with the mutual funds on how that impacts that and I guess are there any offsets you could use the way you sell to clients etc.
on to regain those? Yes I think what it would have to be -- funds are also very concerned.
I mean this wasn't a broker dealer versus funds both sides were against us and I think that what you're going to see are new product classes and from our internal asset management from funds that meet the requirements for IRA.
So it would I'll call a little bit of retooling for both sides in order to meet the strict definition which could be done it won't apply to all their products but the products [sold to] IRA accounts.
But that remains to be seen we understand that from our discussions that that's going to be lessened and not be an issue or as much of an issue but I can't tell you until we see it.
Thank you.
And at this time I'm not showing any further questions.
Well great.
I know it's a lot going on especially at year end and a volatile quarter in the marketplace but net net we think we've got a very solid year and a good quarter given the market and we -- the most important thing as our advisors are growing our loans are growing assets were down but that's really a markets phenomenon for the most part and we're very confident that with any kind of reasonable market that we'll continue to leverage this platform and with a great work of the great advisors to keep the culture here up.
I'm very positive so that's to your time we really appreciate your interest and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks Terese.
You're welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today's conference.
I thank you for your participation that does conclude the conference you may now disconnect.