Good day everyone and welcome to today's Roper Quarter and Year Financial Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melody and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the record results for our first quarter 2011.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Soni Vice President and Controller.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
In addition we've prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 2.
We begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
And now if you'll please turn to Slide 3.
I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we'll take questions from our participants.
Brian? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We'll take you first through the Q1 financial results in detail and then we'll look at the segment performance and the outlook for Q2 and the rest of the year.
I'll talk about raising our guidance and then sort of summarize the quarter and take your questions.
First slide here is the financial results.
You can see we achieved a record all-time record for Q1 in orders and sales backlog net earnings EBITDA and pretty much every other measurement you can imagine.
The thing that was particularly gratifying was our book-to-bill ratio was 109%.
Generally we're at the sort of 97% to 103% so to be at 109% is very encouraging for the remainder of the year.
Organic growth was really quite spectacular we thought with 20% order growth.
And all 4 of the segments had double-digit order growth and revenue growth which you can see organically was 16%.
Gross margins increased to 54.3% so any fear of input costs creating any difficulty at Roper was not well founded.
EBITDA margins are up 310 basis points to 27.4%.
Remember with us that's mostly EBITA.
There's not much depreciation here.
Our balance sheet was enhanced as we continued to pay down our revolver and we ended the quarter with an all-time record backlog of $851 million in revenue which is 43% higher than the backlog at the end of the first quarter of last year up $257 million.
Now we certainly when we established our guidance for Q1 thought we would have a strong start but this is even better than our best expectations.
Next slide.
Our income statement.
Here you could see the bookings at $702 million up 24% in total and 20% organically.
Net sales of $645 million up 21% in total and 16% organically.
Our gross profit went from 52.3% the first quarter of last year to 54.3% here an increase of 200 basis points.
Our operating income was up 41% that went from 18.8% last year to 22% this year so that's really quite outstanding leverage.
In fact we'll talk a little bit more about our leverage on the variable contribution here for the revenue.
Our interest expense was basically flat.
The tax rate was also quite similar to the prior year and that produced net earnings up 49% to $89 million from $59.7 million last year and a diluted earnings per share number of $0.91 versus the $0.62 GAAP number from the prior year.
On the next slide.
On the asset velocity while the absolute amount -- the dollar amount of inventory receivable was up a little bit as a function of the revenue it continues to decline.
You'll see in the first quarter our inventory was 7.7% of revenue down from 8.2%.
In the prior year our receivables were down to 16% a pickup of 50 basis points from the 16.5% the prior year.
And our payables and accruals or liabilities there actually increased to 16.1% from 15.8%.
So when we total it at the end of last year we were 8.9% of sales and this year it's down 130 basis points to 7.6% of revenues.
So year-over-year we see continued improvement in our asset velocity.
Next slide.
We ended the quarter with a really strong balance sheet.
Cash was $261 million.
We paid down the revolver so there's quite a bit of the revolver left.
When you take the revolver and the cash together we wind up with $813 million of available liquidity.
And of course we'll have very strong cash in Q2 and throughout the rest of the year.
Our net debt is down to $980 million and you can see that gives us a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio on a trailing basis of only 1.4x and our EBITDA will continue to expand rapidly throughout the year on a trailing basis.
Our EBITDA-to-interest coverage is already at 10.2x.
So these ratios are extremely strong and they really enhance our liquidity and our ability to use the balance sheet in the quarters ahead.
Next slide.
Here we're going to look at the individual segment performance and the outlook.
Next slide.
Order strength as you can see was really spectacular.
Industrial Technology was up 30% RF Technology was up 30% Energy Systems &amp; Controls 16% and Medical &amp; Scientific up 15%.
The book-to-bill ratios were very strong all the way across anywhere from 118% in Industrial down to 103% in Medical &amp; Imaging.
We had double-digit organic growth in all 4 segments for revenue as well.
Next slide.
If you look at RF Technology you can see that orders reached $217 million in the quarter up 30% from the prior year and 18% organically.
Our sales were $200 million which was up 23% year-over-year and up more than 10% organically.
Our gross margin expanded to 51.4% which was up 170 basis points and our operating margin was up 270 basis points.
We finished the quarter with an EBITDA margin of 30.7% which was up 450 basis points from the first quarter of 2010.
So you see very strong EBITDA performance with our iTrade business contributing a substantial amount of noncash amortization to the EBITDA measure here.
In the first quarter of 2011 we had very strong tag sales for both Florida Oklahoma and Dubai.
In fact our Amtech business was up over 40%.
A significant growth in our Gas Automated Meter Reading business with the Gaz de France project and quite substantial increase in the U.K.
our Water Network Metering and Monitoring business as those were up well in excess of 40% as well.
And in CBORD we had an expanded subscriber base.
We won in another major university in Miami a university in Ohio a big security win there displacing a longtime occupant in that role.
In Q2 what we'd see is that the Gaz de France AMR project ought to continue at similar levels to Q1.
We'll have a very strong seasonal Q2 because CBORD winds up with their annual renewals following into the second quarter so we should see double-digit growth there.
Our Houston METRO project appears to be on schedule and we ought to see what we have in our forecast for the second quarter.
And iTrade has won a very very significant opportunity to launch a system for a major European food retailer that we can't yet announce but the launch is underway and the integration will begin within the year.
It's very encouraging for us to see the direction at RF Technology because last year in 2010's first quarter our organic revenue was down 12% the second quarter it was down 7% third quarter it was down 1% the fourth quarter it was up 6%.
So we're out of the gate here with more than a 10% organic gain here in the first quarter and we expect the balance of the year is going to give us double-digit growth throughout the next 3 quarters.
Q2 a little lighter Q3 much stronger and Q4 similar to this quarter.
Next slide.
In Industrial Technology just absolutely spectacular performance here.
Our orders were up 30% to $201 million.
Of course that's all organic.
Our sales were up 26% aided by about 60 basis points of FX so you could round organic down to 25%.
Gross margins were at 50.4% so they've continued to expand and their operating margin was up 370 basis points to 27.2%.
EBITDA in Industrial Technology finished the quarter at 30.6%.
Virtually everyone there had a very strong quarter.
Our Fluid Handling businesses that deal with gas and exploration with the new products we've launched in the last year and half just are having extraordinary performance.
These businesses are nearly up 50%.
The Material Testing business we have as we can to get better capacity utilization around the country is growing very rapidly.
And we actually had double-digit growth in our U.S.
business in Neptune and then still more growth as a result of Canada continuing to ship in the Mexico City order we announced in the fourth quarter.
So Neptune had a very strong Q1 and we expect that to continue.
In Q2 the backlog at our Fluid Handling businesses that are offering Cornell Pump will assure double-digit growth in the second quarter.
The Toronto project installation phase is going to actually ramp up in Q2 although because there's a lot of labor in that it comes in at the expected lower margins that we have there.
End markets remain very strong in all these Industrial categories and the operating leverage that we get is continuing to drive margin performance.
You can really see just how effective we are when you look at the spot price for copper.
In the first quarter last year it was $3.55.
Spot price this year is $4.30 and yet our margins expanded across the board whether they're gross margins operating margins or EBITDA margins.
Next slide.
The Energy Systems &amp; Control segment.
It continues to perform well.
Here orders were up 16% all organic.
Sales up 23%.
Gross margin expanded quite a bit from up 350 basis points to 54.1%.
And the operating profit margin increased 450 basis point.
You might remember we were somewhat disappointed in Q1 2010 with the operating margin.
Got that corrected in the second quarter and this shows the kind of firm disciplined approach to what we needed to do after that first quarter of last year.
And that certainly supports this 450 basis point improvement in OP.
EBITDA margins here were about 26%.
Again you can say exactly the same thing the same words that apply to Industrial Technology: broad-based strength across all businesses and end markets.
Everything here is really doing exceptionally well.
Very dramatic growth in our Diesel Engine Surge Protection business.
We almost called it explosive growth but thought that might scare people.
That business is up nearly 40% this year.
Industrial end market growth continues to drive our Sensors business as capacity utilization back in the latex and rubber industry looks very good and then equipment sales to measure the output of those things were up sharply.
And all of our Energy Lab Equipment businesses are doing okay as we've finally got a little bit improvement in both refining and petrochem markets.
In the second quarter the end market dynamics we think will continue to be strong.
Our backlog is really quite substantial in our Compressor Control business which will start to drive better Vs here in Q2 and particularly in the second half of the year.
And the margin expansion we think will continue to be driven just by the operating leverage as sales increase throughout the year.
Next slide.
Here's the Medical &amp; Imaging segment.
Orders were up 15%.
Tiny bit of FX there so organic it was 14%.
Sales were up 12%.
The gross margins here 62.8% up 330 basis points.
And our OP was up to 24.1%.
EBITDA in this segment is 29.1% so EBITDA margins increased by 110 basis points.
We've done quite a bit of investing in the first quarter in our Verathon business.
We're launching 2 new products 1 is called Velaport [ph] and that has had us incur some growth expense in Q1 and that will continue a little bit into Q2 as we launch all that collateral literature and the various programs and held a sales meeting in Q1 to kick that product off along with some other things we're doing as well.
Medical remains strong on consumables double-digit growth in all these businesses in our kidney dialysis application for our Dosage Delivery Pump business continued to be a double-digit grower.
Very significant order growth in our high-end imaging cameras and filtering technology.
It was the growth star of the quarter as we looked at the filters for electron microscopy being up very dramatically.
In the second quarter of 2011 we see Medical continuing to grow at double digits as we get continuing adoption rates for GlideScope and Velaport [ph].
No new products have been launched within this year.
And the Scientific Imaging has a really quite substantial backlog that will support a strong Q2.
The Japanese supply risks have proven to be less difficult than what we feared on certain high-end chips that are made very specifically for us.
We've kind of dealt with all those issues and feel quite good about it.
The only thing for Japan is that a substantial portion of our Camera business goes into the Japanese market.
It represents a disproportionate share compared to the rest of Roper.
Our total sales into Japan are in the neighborhood of 3% of revenues so it's not something that's overly difficult for us that could depress revenue growth for the camera portion of the business in the next quarter or 2.
But then that will just fill the backlog.
It will be good news for us later.
Next slide.
Here as we look at the guidance we're going to raise the guidance.
Next slide.
We were at $3.82 to $4.02 when we went into the year.
We've raised the base by $0.15 and the top end by $0.10 to take us to $3.97 to $4.12.
The midpoint of that is more than a 20% increase over last year's $3.34 on a GAAP basis.
And in the second quarter we're at $0.95 to $1.00 which is quite a sharp increase over last year's Q2 performance.
Basically the sales we expect to have kind of mid-teens organic growth in the second quarter and the second half of the year.
Probably in the kind of high single digit 8% to 10% or 11% so the full year will be double-digit organic growth.
I guess the next slide would be the -- well we're still reaffirming that cash flow would be in excess of $550 million so that -- you can imagine the next 3 quarters will be quite substantial in terms of operating cash flow will generate.
In quarter 1 summary the next slide.
All-time record there in Q1 for order sales backlog net earnings and EBITDA.
Gross margin demonstrated that we didn't have any difficulty with input costs at 54.3%.
Operating margin is up 320 basis points to 22%.
That's leverage of 37% by the way on the OP line.
And our EBITDA margin is up 310 basis points to 27.4%.
It gives us a leverage of 43%.
At 43% leverage of course benefits from iTrade with its amortization.
Organic growth was 20% on orders and 16% on sales.
The $851 million backlog -- boy I can remember when our total sales for the year were $500 million.
So being up 43% over the prior year gives us a flood of optimism for the rest.
Most importantly is everything really performed well.
If you look around you can only find 2 or 3 things which are quite small in their scope that aren't really doing exceptionally well.
So we raised our guidance up to $3.97 to $4.12 and certainly our position for another record year at Roper.
And with that let's open it up to questions John.
Okay Melody we're ready for the Q&amp;A part of the call.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Just a couple of questions.
Brian the tone of your press release sounds a little bit more optimistic on kind of the availability of deals or maybe reasonable properties at reasonable prices.
Could you elaborate on that a little bit and kind of talk about the pipeline? Well I would say that there are a lot of opportunities.
There are fewer that are reasonable.
But there are quite a lot that are relatively reasonable.
So we're pretty encouraged by the transactions we have and the people we're talking with on this.
In the same venue somebody called me last night from Europe about a transaction that people think we should be interested in which we never would be but bragging that they were going to get a debt staple of 6 3/4 on this transaction.
So I mean the frothiness and lack of discipline around debt being applied to sales processes is pretty much back to the status it's ever been.
So you do want to be careful about what it is you're doing.
But we have more than enough really outstanding opportunity to execute over the next 12 months.
So we're very encouraged.
I would say that the things that we're doing we like as much as the transactions we've done recently with United Toll and with iTrade and with Verathon so I think there's exciting days ahead.
And to go to iTrade if you wouldn't mind you said you couldn't elaborate too much on this possible European project or it sounds like it's not possible.
It sounds like you've booked it.
Could you just speak a little bit to -- is the scope of that job different than what they've done before? Really the essence of my question is as you've brought iTrade into the portfolio are you finding ways to coordinate with some of the capabilities elsewhere in RF? And even if it doesn't apply to this particular deal maybe you could give us a little color on that.
Well those are kind of 2 totally different things.
So let's first just on this European thing.
We just aren't at liberty to name a name but it would have such a compelling name that you're thinking of it domestically.
It'll be like saying well I got Kroger or I got Wal-Mart or something like that.
It's a very very large significant pan-European opportunity.
And it will take us a couple of years to do everything we're going to be able to do with them and a lot to build that opportunity and then later analytic opportunity with that.
So we're really excited about that.
It's 1 of the things we were really hoping we'd able to bring into the wheelhouse.
And we have -- we're making some growth investments in that because we have to increase our server space.
We have to have specific things in Europe for these people to access.
In terms of other opportunities within Roper we have opportunities both in freight matching and in CBORD around menu planning and nutrition information which we continue to work on.
We've had some -- they're not cross-selling they're technology-sharing opportunities for applications.
And we've had important household names in the food industry.
And just recently in Miami Florida extensive program and we're going to continue to do that throughout the year.
So yes I think we will see some -- I think most of the sales will accrete to iTrade but some may accrete to other things within the "software as a service" platform we're building within RF.
And just 1 other if I could and I'll pass it on.
Neptune did sound like it was very strong and you cited U.S.
Is that some fresh penetration in places or is that business becoming mature enough now that you're seeing some replacement activity? Just a little color there please.
Well it was up about 20% in the U.S.
so we thought we would just kind of comment on that because other people were wondering about people gaining share at our expense.
It never happened.
Isn't going to happen.
And all you got to do is look at the other people in Q1 and look at us.
So this is the best premier business in the world than what it does.
I would say the markets are fairly mature certainly held back dramatically by the lack of housing starts.
My goodness if we had any housing starts you'd think how much more organic growth we would get back in that business.
It's just well positioned with the right sort of hybrid ability to deal with fixed network so we're mobile in any form of integration and migration.
There's another thing that's emerging that people haven't paid enough attention to and that is that we have the only U.S.
lead-free water meter.
Period.
End of discussion.
If anybody ever reinforces buy American or says I want lead-free water meters which is a mandated requirement in the coming years we're the sole sourceability to do that.
Somebody is making lead-free and lead in the same factory in Mexico I hardly think it would qualify as buying American lead-free-only water meter.
So we're very proud of Neptune.
It's a wonderful management team.
They're very dedicated.
They're working a lot on forward technologies.
And you know we may make further investments in that space to help them.
Thank you very much guys.
We'll hear next from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Brian just wondering on the Imaging trends.
The Verathon seemed to be in a pretty strong ramp throughout last year.
Just wondering if those initial product lines are more approaching run rate? And if you could add any color on what the commercial opportunity might look like for some of the new product launches there.
Yes let me ask John to talk to that.
I guess John really focused on Verathon here.
Sure yes.
I'll go ahead and speak to that.
The adoption rates particularly for GlideScope continues to be very strong with a lot of product enhancements and other things that we're doing there to make it a more mobile so more people are able to have access to that in a hospital setting.
So continued product refinements or continuing the adoption rate on the GlideScope side.
And then on the BladderScan side continuing to take that core technology of the ultrasound and be able to make that applied in other areas.
That's what we've done with AortaScan.
That's what we're going to do with Velaport [ph] also in order to make it easier to basically have an IV needle inserted into someone's arm when the vein may be very difficult to find or difficult to see.
So taking that same basic technology and making new products and new applications out of it is 1 of the things that Gerald and the team are just fabulous at being able to do out there at Verathon.
And we continue to see lots of opportunities for that going forward.
And in addition don't forget we did acquire a product line called Heartscape about this time last year and we expect that to have some product introductions into the marketplace late in 2011 and that'll also add to growth in 2012.
So we're excited about what we see and the investments that we're making in Verathon will pay off.
Thanks it's really helpful.
And then in the RF mix of the businesses just looking if RF -- the tolling orders are really kind of a dam breaking maybe a lot of pent-up demand and projects coming through.
We have a mix impact on operating margins this year and also the double-digits growth guidance was that organic? Oh yes yes yes.
All of that guides we're talking about was organic.
The situation in Q1 we had a good mix because we had tag shipments to Dubai and Florida and Oklahoma and that'll continue somewhat in the second quarter.
But unfortunately the tag shipments are always lumpy.
We can't do much about those.
And so within the next 3 quarters there'll be different results based on the mix of just the normal service work we do and product shipments.
Since there's a huge variance there both from a gross margin basis and a cash contribution.
Thanks a lot.
We'll go next to Deane Dray with Citi.
Thank you.
Brian I'd be interested in hearing your comments about some of the competitor actions in your space very recently and love to hear your comments about how that is either an opportunity or a threat or not meaningful.
And the 2 I'd like you to comment on if you could the first would be the joint venture between 2 of your competitors in the tolling space Sirit and the new owner of Mark IV KTC.
And the other would be the development at Blackboard which is in a space with you.
I think there's always misperceptions about what the actual overlap is.
But if anything it's a validation that this is an attractive space considering they put themselves up for sale.
But where's the overlap?  Where's the adjacencies within Blackboard? Thank you.
We'll only take the Blackboard.
First the blackboard really has 2 businesses.
They have a business which is like CBORD which we feel we continue to gain share against them in that space.
That for them may be viewed more as a legacy business.
You'd have to ask them.
That's their university business.
And then they have their business which is really education software that's -- had it not be involved with the university in the same traditional teaching setting we're familiar with.
We have nothing to do with them in that space.
That's the largest portion of their revenue.
How profitable it is is something you'd have to talk to them about.
So there's a small group of competitors like CBORD and Blackboard that are driving what's happening from an adoption viewpoint with universities.
We've got a we think the best offering in the space.
So if Blackboard in fact does transact then someone else takes it over we wouldn't see that as anything other than what you said which is validating the quality of the space.
If you look at the kind of trading mobiles that Blackboard had even before this 35% premium jack-up you get why sometimes we get frustrated about people thinking about us as a multi-industry company as opposed to a diversified growth company because so many of our assets today in the SaaS platform space are just undervalues [ph] are extraordinary compared to the multi-industry multiples.
And we think people should focus on the quality of the assets we hold in that space.
And secondary as far as -- I mean Sirit was a basically unprofitable or bad trading dollar business in Canada.
That was acquired by Federal Signal so we don't think of it as Sirit now.
We think of it as Federal Signal which is primarily a business selling the different municipal aspects of stuff.
Sirit is kind of at the low end of technology certainly.
And then if you go over to Kapsch which is an Austrian company publicly traded they bought the Mark IV assets out of that transaction around Mark IV and bankruptcy and all those things that were tangential to that.
We haven't seen any resurgence of anything under Federal Signal and we certainly haven't seen any resurgence of anything other than Mark IV as just continuing the sale of product and the E-ZPass.
They don't win anything new.
We have been winning business in California with platforms that 1 of those people used to be involved with.
It certainly doesn't -- it doesn't hurt us in anyway.
We wind up with Canadians and the Austrians and once again we're the only American company.
If people focused on the buy American provisions we'd be getting even more of the business that those businesses used to enjoy.
It hasn't happened yet.
But we do think people ought to focus on that.
We have a wide range of technologies.
We can do anything that those competitors can do at the bottom end or the high end so we're kind of a one-stop shop.
I don't see that really changing.
Great.
And just a follow-up for me would be on the E-ZPass.
Any new development there in expectations of how long this takes to play out? I guess whatever the long side is Deane you take back.
I mean there are people who claim that a decision would be made in August.
We're encouraged to hear that.
We're always wondering what kind of decision would that be.
But the testing is completed on everything I believe.
And what's happened is that we enjoy is North Carolina completed their testing for all of our products and have started to take deliveries.
And in North Carolina we've got a ubiquitous solution that allows a whole lot of freedom for people using various tags that has never been in the marketplace before.
So we know from a technology viewpoint we have a winning formula and then it's just a matter of what kind of decision ever gets made by these New York and New Jersey people and the rest of the consortium which makes up the interagency group.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll hear next from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Brian can you update on your initiatives to grow internationally I'm thinking particularly in your Industrial businesses Industrial Technology and Energy? Well several of our businesses are not in the U.S.
and the Industrial platform or Logitech business is based in Scotland and our Insurance business is based in Denmark.
The vast majority of their revenue is not in the U.S.
and they're growing quite substantially.
Our Abel business is a German-based business and it has showed a record Q1 order make up for that business which is very different than the domestic U.S.
Flow Control businesses we have.
And then the Roper Pump business is mostly a domestic business which is doing exceptionally well now because of directional drilling and our technology which allows the frac-ing that you hear so much about.
And then our Cornell Pump business is primarily a domestic centrifugal pump business.
Occasionally we'll shift stuff to the Middle East.
But for the most part it's designed to be a North American business for North American agriculture and municipal water handling.
The scale of this business is such that we would not invest a lot of money and sales outside the United States for these businesses other than things that we have just unique niche applications.
So the mix of Industrial is not dissimilar outside the U.S.
40% 50% versus in the U.S.
But you don't have any -- you don't have any large-scale plans that really take some of the Roper Pump and other things to more international setting? No.
I think that people in the flows control industries have about 25x more assets than are needed around the globe.
There's confident players everywhere.
We've just selected markets that we have unique competency in and wouldn't be making dramatic new capital investments to make more pumps for the world.
Okay.
And then on Medical &amp; Imaging what's the ratio now of the medical to imaging the sales kind of breakout? And what's possible on the OP margin here is Verathon -- they expected savings synergies already gained here and baked into the results? Or is there still some more headroom as far as operating margins? Well actually what's happening we're investing at a pretty fast rate so in some ways we're compressing the operating margins intentionally for launching these new products that John spoke about earlier at Verathon.
And we've been investing quite a bit in Gatan as well.
So as those products are launched to become a little more mature we'll get some margin improvement there plus we just get terrific capture on leverage.
It's like we said for the whole enterprise our EBITDA leverage is 43%.
It'd be safe to say in Verathon's case it would be higher.
So they have high gross margins in those businesses.
The mix between Medical -- Medical was about 1/2 maybe a little over 1/2 now of the total segment.
And Medical will continue to grow more rapidly at a double-digit rate than the imaging portion of the platforms which are much more stable mature research application businesses.
They're going to maybe grow at mid-single digits or something where the others are going to grow into the teens on a regular ongoing basis.
So eventually the Imaging portion of the portfolio will be much less critical.
Okay thank you.
We'll go next to Alex Blanton with Clear Harbor Asset Management.
Brian I remember when your sales were only $70 million.
That was 1992.
And so I'd like to point out that your sales have grown better than 20% a year.
This is the 19th year of that kind of growth which is truly outstanding.
But how long do you think you can keep that going with the size of the acquisitions that you're contemplating plus the organic growth? Could you do it another 5 years? Well I guess I think the next 5 years would be harder than the last 5 years have been.
So we haven't established any multiple-year guidance for people but I think history's a pretty good barometer of what people can do if the markets cooperate if we get some kind of rational thinking around certain activities in the marketplace our growth prospects are probably better than -- what we say historically is that we ought to grow kind of 1.5x to 2x global GDP and we've been able to do a little better than that.
Okay.
The second question is on the diesel engine surge protection that you mentioned were up 40% is that the AMOT business? Well it's in the AMOT business but we acquired 2 other companies.
We acquired a company called Roda Deaco and another company called CHALWYN.
CHALWYN's in the U.K.
and Roda Deaco was -- basically got all this oil sands activity.
Plus you've got the explosions that people have from frankly diesel engine surge controlled as well they could be.
We think these products should be mandatory in every diesel engine in the world.
It's a slow slog to get everybody to recognize that.
But once people do it they see the efficiency of it.
And then if the adoption rates continue to increase as you've had kind of a return to oil sands production activity it's driven a lot of growth.
And the contribution on these is really quite good.
Well the installation of diesel engines is not growing at that rate so it must have been the accident in the Gulf that caused people to start...
No.
The accident in Houston at the refinery that was another wake-up call for people.
A lot of folks think that that was an explosion that was caused for various reasons but not the least of which is when you shut off the diesel engine and it continues to run it'd be a real problem.
Several times we have with AMOT plus road diesel at CHALWYN gives us a very unique global platform where we have the most -- we believe the best technology in the world for this and can [indiscernible].
So this is really a lot of retrofit going on here? Absolutely.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Alex.
And next question comes from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Couple of questions.
First Brian given the overall size of the Toronto project and the significance of that can you give us a little more granularity and kind of what that contributed to revenue in '10 and how that ramp looks in '11 and '12? And would you say -- I know it got delayed but would you say relative to where you expected it to be today is it sort of back on track in that regard? Yes.
The Toronto ramp.
I'm going to let John handle that because I think -- I'm not sure exactly what he said there but if we could have you verify it.
Sure.
Yes.
Toronto is ramping up as expected.
Of course first quarter installations are always slow as the ground is usually frozen there.
And we're still in the kind of the build-out phase of the system that captures and collects and analyzes all the data.
So we're really doing a couple of things there not only the meter installation as well as the network but also helping on the data management side.
And then as we move forward through the year we'll be ramping up as far as installations are concerned.
Now remember Toronto is the unique situation where we will be overseeing the installation in addition to selling meters.
So we'll have a mixed impact that as we're doing the installation that actually obviously comes at lower margin than the more technology that's embedded than the meter does.
And that of course is roughly a $200 million project that will ramp up to -- or it may end up at a kind of a run rate within the $35 million to $40 million range at its peak as we get there in 2012 and '13 and then look to have this project completed and moving into replacement and ongoing data services beyond kind of the 2014 '15 time frame.
And I think Matt that last year in our base data it's less than $10 million I think we've got $5 million $6 million $7 million.
And then this year maybe it'll be 5x that or something like that.
So the real expansion is in '13 and '14.
This year we'll get some improvement in revenue less than 1% of our total growth attributed to that in the -- at the enterprise level.
Not a lot.
Got it.
And then just overall when you look across your businesses Brian are you concerned about municipal spending municipal budgets or lack thereof? How do you sort of -- how do you reconcile those trends with how you're kind of guiding your businesses right now? Well we are worried about that.
We worry about that from a state and municipal spending level.
We worry about it from Department of Transportation funding and the like.
One of the reasons that we were really pleased with Q1 getting 20% organic growth was that we didn't see any kind of slowness or holdbacks on the things that we've been working with people.
They're -- and we've done a very deep dive in looking at how much of our spending on the water meter side is really related to municipalities versus related to the other facilities that are funded in different ways.
We're actually much more optimistic about what's happening in how we distribute and go to market and create revenue.
We wouldn't have anything good to say about municipal spending or state spending.
But the DOTs and the people that we work with in those arenas are really outside of that list because everything we do in these spaces is revenue generation.
It's not -- we don't need a budget or a muni bond to fund the activity that is going to happen with us.
So the growth that we've got in Q1 and that we expect throughout the year is certainly ahead of our fears which is really part of the reason we were willing to raise guidance as much as we did.
And then lastly Brian I think 1 of your last prepared remarks talked about your incremental operating margins being somewhere in the range of 37% in the quarter which is obviously very good.
How do you feel about sustainability of that type of number given some of the mix dynamics that have come out on this call? Well we're always thinking we ought to be able to capture quite a bit.
You got gross margins that are above 50% so we would tend to think that we ought to be in the 25% to 35% range on a regular ongoing basis.
And really could do better than that.
What's happening right now is that we're -- we've got intangible amortization associated with iTrade which confuses the world on a -- if you only look at GAAP you can get really confused as we all know.
iTrade's a phenomenal business.
It's given us a lot more so the OP was 37%.
Maybe much more importantly the EBITDA was 43%.
So I think this idea that Roper will do 25% to 30% is exceptionally conservative.
So we're probably going to do 30% to 35% and that might even be conservative.
Thanks a lot Brian.
Okay.
We'll go next to Wendy Caplan with SunTrust Capital.
Inc.</strong> Brian that $700 million worth of orders in the quarter was there anything unusual in it in terms of an especially large order or any kind of annualized orders or blanket orders or were they kind of...
No.
I think what was unusual was how broad based it was.
I mean with -- you can't find anybody to beat up.
It's just spectacular.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And speaking of beating people up your breakeven lowering mandate for the company can you kind of talk about whether there's anything specific this year that we should be looking for in terms of particular projects to lower breakeven at various businesses? Well I think all you got to do is just look at the leverage.
When you get that 37% OP leverage and 43% on EBITDA leverage it demonstrates the discipline everybody has about keeping their fixed expense really quite low and reacted creatively to whatever variable output needs they have.
We haven't had to do anything to ramp up to meet the increased demand.
And with a book-to-bill of 109% we ought to be able to do pretty well on the revenue in the second quarter and the rest of the year.
So when we started the year we thought gee we'll probably have pretty good Q1 and Q2 will be okay.
It ought to trail off.
We don't think that way anymore.
So Q1 is really quite good Q2 should be quite good and the rest of the year ought to be really good but not trailing off as much as we originally thought.
And Wendy if I can just chime in on that.
Remember what we do with the breakeven analysis it's not that we have a mandate to always lower that but we always want to make sure that we look at our businesses and that they look at their performance in terms of what their fixed costs and their variable so they understand what the next dollar of revenue should contribute in terms of leverage.
And that when they make investment decisions that those are conscious thoughtful prudent decisions to invest for growth opportunities.
So we always want to make sure that we separate out the fixed costs infrastructure from the leverage on incremental growth so our business leaders are able to make smart decisions about how to grow going forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And finally given your -- just the comments you just made Brian and your -- in the slides it says expected strong start and did even better.
Can you give us some sense of what were the 2 or 3 things that really impressed you in the first quarter that changed your view for the full year? I would just say the breadth of everything.
Every business in Industrial every business in Energy outperformed really our expectations and their own expectations.
And so it isn't that 1 business had a blowout.
I mean certainly our Cornell and Roper businesses had all-time record performance which is good.
But again the scale of those is not enough to really drive the enterprise.
So it's really just the breadth of things that drove the enterprise.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you so much.
We'll go next to Robert W.
Baird's Richard Eastman.
Yes.
2 quick follow-ups.
I mean just on the Industrial Technology side platform the EBIT margin did that benefit significantly from mix in that segment? I mean we talked about maybe Toronto ramping slowly a little slower here in terms of meter sales.
Was there any mix issue there the Pumps and Materials business being much stronger? No.
I really wouldn't say that there was a mix benefit.
There was clearly no mix downside from the additional installation revenue that we do expect at some point in the future with Neptune in Toronto ramping up.
But the nice thing about these businesses is that they have similar operating characteristics and similar margins.
And even on the equipment side versus the aftermarket obviously the aftermarket parts will be a little bit higher margin but it's not a dramatic change it's not like an aerospace business where maybe you don't make anything on the OE and you make it all on the aftermarket.
That's not all what we're seeing in Industrial.
Our new equipment revenue we love to see it because it not only generates more spare parts in the future but it generates more cash today.
So really there's not a huge mix impact there.
But the pumps and material handlings piece there versus say Neptune I would think the contribution margin there would have been above that total platform level.
No I wouldn't say that there's a dramatic difference.
Not much.
Not that dramatic so you can read into that what you want about other data that gets...
Okay.
And then Brian could I -- just real quickly has there been any uptick in interest and perhaps orders at Zetec given what happened in Japan and kind of the forced global kind of inspection requirements maybe on the nuclear industry or elsewhere outside of Japan? Great question Rick.
We haven't included anything in terms of Zetec growth at all in our pathway.
We've had lengthy calls on that with people and we're doing a lot.
We have volunteered a lot of resources for people to do various testing things and we also have this robotic testing technology which is really quite an important technology called Robospec [ph].
But we could we would like to believe we would see a spike in the second half on inspections in the U.S.
104 plants.
When the thing initially happened and people started talking about it we felt we might get a 25% spike in half 2 but remember it's not a real large business.
But we're not seeing that scheduled in any way which is really sort of interesting.
So I think everybody has kind of actually stopped the work and is thinking about what it is they need to do and what's the prioritization of that.
And our stuff is just measuring the structural integrity of the cooling towers.
So it may well be that'll have a bigger impact in 2012 then it'll have in 2011 for us.
Okay.
And then just a last question.
When I look at maybe your core growth commentary per quarter going forward we end calendar '11 at kind of double-digit maybe forecast for organic growth.
I think we were thinking 10% to 11%.
Is there a little bit of an uptick there? And does that come from just the book-to-bill in the first quarter and some visibility into the second? You mean for the full year? Yes you kind of said mid-teens for Q2 and maybe 8% to 11% for each of Q3 Q...
I think we said 9% to 11% organically as I recall.
So we'll probably do better than that.
Okay.
All right.
And that's again just confidence at this point given the book-to-bill here off the first quarter and just visibility? Yes.
And take a lot of -- you don't have to be overly optimistic when you have your $57 million improvement in the backlog.
Understood.
Okay thank you.
Melody I think we have time for just 1 more question.
And we'll take that from Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Brian we're seeing a lot of company's raise earnings guidance for the year but leave cash flows unchanged as you have done.
I'm just wondering what the message in the Roper context is there.
Is it just the practical realities of the strong growth at this point of the cycle? Is it the right investment trade-off to be making? Or are you just being a little conservative there? Well I think this point it's probably a little bit early for us to be able to forecast how the incremental growth that we're seeing and probably a little bit stronger than what we had thought maybe 3 months ago how that will translate into year-end working capital balances.
If you kind of think about the net income impact of say raising $0.15 on the bottom for us that's about $15 million of net income and $15 million of after-tax cash.
But like I said it's a little early to forecast exactly what those year-end balances will be.
So we're comfortable still at $550 million or more of operating cash flow.
And as we get closer to the end of the year we'll be able to have a better view on what some of those working capital balances will look like.
Okay.
And then Brian I'm wondering if you could just put a little more color on your earlier M&amp;A comments from the standpoint of size of transactions whether that might require some or give you an opportunity to do some equity there.
And in terms of the platforms where you're seeing the better opportunities can you provide a little bit of comment there too? Well I think that we can all -- there's more things to do than we would be willing to do with our capital structure always.
I mean we're going to remain an investment-grade performer and so you don't want to really have much more than say 3x debt to EBITDA.
And if you look at our trailing EBITDA it's going to ramp up quite dramatically here in the next quarter and third quarter.
So we're going to have well in excess of $1 billion capacity with our existing structure without having to issue equity.
I can't imagine issuing equity.
It would have to just be 1 heck of a breathtaking opportunity for us and I just don't see that happening.
I mean I wouldn't rule it out if you had some kind of nirvana opportunity.
But what we -- we continue to just reinvest our cash flow.
We think $500 million $600 million a year is probably where you go when you lever it up at 3x.
It could be more.
We got a lot of capacity now and responses are exceptionally low.
So maybe it goes up but I wouldn't think we'd be doing some $2 billion transaction.
I think we'd do $1 billion one first.
And your platforms where pipelines more robust Energy Industrial Medical RF across the board any color there? Every Industrial asset in the world are for sale.
So we're not overly excited with the stuff we're seeing in that space or the lack of discipline that people have in what they're paying.
So we continue to think that the Software-as-a-Service arena and the medical arena remain quite attractive businesses and there's plenty of growth in those businesses in terms of an investment acquisitions and they really crowd out most of the other investment opportunities in terms of their cash and cash returns over time.
So that remains our sharp focus.
Maybe there'll be some niche thing along the way that we think is particularly good.
But other than that pretty much we're focused in those 2 areas.
And I would just say Terry I think we had $87 million of operating cash flow in the quarter.
Not unusual for a Q1.
So with $550 million for the full year we're talking about generating $463 million of operating cash flow in the next 3 quarters.
And that $463 million operating cash flow it'll be quite substantial as a function of revenue for the balance of the year.
And when you already got $800 million in available liquidity and you know you're going to create another $400-plus million of free cash flow between now and the end of the year that gives us all the powder we're going to need to make real high-quality transactions.
Okay thanks very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
We'll now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Humphrey for any additional closing remarks.
Thank you Melody and thank you all for joining us this morning.
And we look forward to talking to you as we finish the second quarter and talk to you again in July.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for your participation.
The Roper Industries Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
This call is being recorded.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jennifer and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our second quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Soni Vice President and Controller.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes a replay information for today's call.
We've prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you'll turn to Slide 2 we'd begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information as well as the filings.
And now if you'll please turn to Slide 3.
I'll turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we'll take questions from our participants.
Brian? Thanks John and good morning everybody.
Let me start here with the Slide 3 on my deck.
We'll go through the second quarter financial results for the enterprise as a whole and then we'll dissect how the segments performed and what the outlook appears for each of the segment in the second half of the year.
We'll talk about raising our guidance and then sort of summarize the quarter and its implications for the future and take your questions.
Next slide.
The Q2 financial results here are really a spectacular quarter for us.
We achieved a series of all-time company historical results around orders and sales and backlog and operating cash flow.
And then in the quarter our net earnings EBITDA and free cash flow were outstanding.
Total sales for the quarter were up 23% and 16% of that was organic.
We enjoyed again double-digit sales growth in each one of the 4 segments which frankly was a little bit better than we expected going into the quarter.
Our book-to-bill ratio is still above 1 for the eighth straight quarter so that's resulting in continuing backlog.
We've got record backlog at the end of the second quarter of $872 million which is up $230 million from last year's second quarter.
Gross margins were very solid in the quarter.
They hit 53.9%.
And our EBITDA margins when you exclude this remeasurement gain which is required to be included here on a GAAP basis but we've excluded it for looking at our leverage.
So the EBITDA margin was up 280 basis points to 28.5%.
Without that remeasurement gain of course if we left it the margin would even be better.
NDI's acquisition was completed in the quarter.
That's off to a good start.
We've already begun the financial integration and had some marketplace meetings with our various people in medical and looked actually at some other acquisitions in that area with them.
And then we were pleased to see the Moody's upgrade that we received in the quarter on all of our debt structure to Baa2.
Next slide.
On the income statement there's just not much to say about this except we achieved another amazingly great quarter.
Bookings you can see book-to-bill at $708 million it's 1.01 up our eighth straight quarter.
Net sales were $700 million in the quarter.
First time we've done that.
23% increase.
Gross profit up 70 basis points.
Operating income was up 240 basis points from 21%.
Second quarter of last year to 23.4% here.
Our interest expense was flat.
Tax rate in the quarter was actually headwind for us.
We came in at 31.4% in Q2 this year versus 29.6% last year and that cost us a couple of pennies.
Net earnings again that's asterisked to show the net earnings number without the foreign currency remeasurement gain in the quarter.
It was up 43%.
And the diluted earnings per share $1.03 versus $0.74.
On a GAAP basis it had to be reported at $1.08.
Next slide.
The free cash flow in Q2 got back to where we expect it -- we'd like to be.
We had terrific terrific results 21% of sales.
Free cash flow was up 41% over the same quarter a year ago with a move up from $103 million to $145 million.
Next slide.
If you look at the asset velocity performance in the quarter it's one of the things I know everybody's very happy with inside the company.
Despite having a 23% gain in revenue actually inventory as a function of revenue improved by 10 basis points.
So inventory last year was 7.6% of sales.
Here we are up 23% and inventory has dropped to 7.5% of sales.
So we're very pleased with our results.
Payable is about 5.5% with inventory at 7.5%.
We're not having to invest very much to continue to maintain our growth which is great news.
Next slide.
If we look at the balance sheet of the company we can honestly say the balance sheet's never been in better shape.
We ended the quarter with $196 million in cash and that's after acquiring Northern Digital for $200 million by the way.
Our available liquidity including the undrawn revolver at the end of quarter was $753 million but it'll continue to move up here as we add cash rapidly now.
That gives us a net debt of $1 050 000 000.
And our net debt-to-net cap you can see as 26%.
We reported here debt-to-EBITDA meaning gross debt-to-EBITDA because not all of that $196 million is immediately available without repatriation.
So the gross debt-to-EBITDA number is 1.7x.
If you look at the net debt which includes all the cash it drops that ratio to 1.4.
Our EBITDA-to-interest expense coverage is about 11x.
And despite investing $725 million in the last 12 months we're really in wonderful shape going forward.
And by the way our trailing EBITDA now on a 12-month basis is up to $739 million.
So as the trailing EBITDA grows rapidly and you look at the debt situation being held constant the balance sheet gets better and better.
Next slide.
Now we want to take a look at the individual performance of the 4 segments and what we think they'll look like in the second half.
Next slide.
Here we're looking at the sort of consolidated segment-by-segment approach on gross margins and EBITDA in the quarter.
Everybody at 50% or higher.
The industrial EBITDA margins again are just breathtaking at 31%.
Just terrific results in the quarter including handling a portion of our industrial businesses that we'll talk more about.
Next slide.
We start with RF Technology with the largest portion of reported sales in the quarter at 31% of revenue.
You can see orders for RF were up 13% sales were up 26% and operating margin was up 410 basis points to 24.1%.
EBITDA in the quarter for RF by the way was 31% as we have a good deal of amortization in RF.
The second quarter we wound up with organic sales of 13%.
We had particularly strong growth in the U.K.
with our water network monitoring products from Technolog and continued growth in Gaz de France installation project with Technolog in France.
We had very strong double-digit sales increases out of CBORD which was driven by deployments business we won earlier out of college and university environments and that portion of the business is continuing to do really quite well despite what some people might think.
Very strong North American tag sales for transport throughout the second quarter.
And then if we look to the second half of the year we're going to have continued growth in both toll and traffic operations with more tags shipments out of TransCore but also several traffic projects that we're putting in in the United States.
And then we have a significant expansion of electronic tolling in Puerto Rico where we're going to be converting from coin-operated technologies to electronic collection.
CBORD's backlog is very strong so it's assuring ourselves a double-digit growth throughout the rest of this half of the year and very strong Q3 cash.
And iTrade is continuing to do well.
We've been encouraging them and investing in them to focus really on their core business on a global basis and that is going well although we have to continue to beef up the nimbleness of our operations in Europe which we're doing.
Next slide.
In industrial technology you can see we had again a spectacular performance.
Orders were up 15% sales up 26% operating margin increased 160 basis points to 28.2%.
EBITDA was 31% for them as well.
We had exceptional growth in all of our pump and water fluid handling businesses largely driven by oil and gas and irrigation projects.
Our materials are used in all the shale activity that you see and we're doing a lot of dewatering and we're doing a lot of drilling support mechanisms for those projects.
We have very strong demands for our material test business in Denmark and then we had double-digit growth again at Neptune which was kind of I wouldn't say a surprise but it was pleasant to see because all of the indicators around those businesses would be less than exciting.
The next generation residential water meter that we developed at Neptune that some people have seen has been introduced and it's beginning to ship.
It has a lower raw material content than our previous water meter had for residential applications and it's a very easy product to install and incorporate our reading technology.
Neptune already meets the 2014 federal lead-free standard associated with the Safe Water Drinking Act.
I think this is something that's not talked about enough in the marketplace around just how important and critical that'll be.
And we would encourage our investors to go online on YouTube you'll see at www.shedthelead.com/video/.
You'll see a 4 to 4.5 minute thing we put together basically for municipalities to help them try to understand what's going on and while there was this one standard now there's another standard that has to be lead free.
Neptune is the only really producer of lead-free water meters here in the United States.
Quite a significant development for us.
It's something that we've been working on throughout the last 10 years and feel that it's going to get widespread market acceptance going forward.
In the second half of the year we expect Neptune's momentum to continue which we would think will do at least as well on revenue in the second half of the year there as we did in the first half even though in the third quarter for Neptune we have extremely difficult comp because last year we had a blowout favorable third quarter.
Our order trends and backlog continue to support all of our fluid handling businesses.
They -- whether it's Roper or Cornell or Abel or Hansen any of these are all doing just spectacularly well.
New product introductions and a strong Q4 seasonality we think will continue to drive or stir us in Logitech [indiscernible] businesses also in the fourth quarter.
Next slide.
When we look at the energy systems and controls business here you can see orders up 19% sales up 22%.
The operating margin here was 25.9% which is up 150 basis points.
EBITDA came into the quarter at 29%.
In the quarter virtually all of our end markets were very strong.
The diesel engine safety systems that we continue to advertise and push into the marketplace have had continuing growth in their adoption rate with the diesel engine manufacturers.
They're going to reach record levels here in this third quarter coming up.
The refining and petrochem market is doing much better for us again.
Instruments sales have taken off.
And then when we look at the sort of global industrial production and capacity utilization around the latex and tire manufacturing and analytics that we do in the rubber industry those all are doing exceptionally well.
And perhaps most importantly we haven't seen any sign of any slowdown in that business which along with material test have been the kind of 2 leading indicators for us about if there's any softness anywhere.
And they both continue to grow.
In the second half of 2011 we've got a very strong backlog in energy which assures our Q3 growth and all the indicators which suggest a seasonally strong Q4 which is usually our best quarter in that segment.
The control systems business activity certainly should drive our second half record performance here.
That activity and backlog has grown at a very fast pace and shipments ought to start to manifest themselves here in the second half.
And we expect continued margin expansion with great leverage throughout the segment in the second half of the year.
Next slide.
The medical and scientific imaging segment you can see was up 11% on orders and up 18% on revenue.
Operating margin was up 180 basis points to 23.4%.
There's quite a bit of noncash amortization here so EBITDA was 29%.
If you look at the medical in the second quarter pretty much across the line performed very well.
We've got faster adoption rates again in BladderScan and GlideScope.
We think -- GlideScope is the intubation product.
BladderScan is the product that helps avoid catheterization in the hospital and that has taken off again this year.
Very strong ultrasound consumables sales for CIVCO.
Northern Digital we completed that acquisition in the quarter.
I will talk a little bit more about that in a second.
And then our high-end products that we're driving for photonics that are really around our filters for Gatan and proprietary technology for Princeton are performing well as well.
In the second half of the year if we look at the backlog that we go into again we're kind of assured a very strong second half.
We don't have to rely much on book and ship here.
Continued strength throughout the medical platform.
We've got the product introductions that Verathon has been working on with Velaport [ph] Heartscape and other products are basically on trend for where we want them to be for our 2012 launches.
We think those products will carry our growth soundly into next year.
In Northern Digital we'll add a little bit of income growth in the second half of the year.
It's accretive nominally maybe $0.01 in Q3 and then stronger in Q4 with $0.03 or so.
That acquisition we thought we'd kind of introduce the product to you since we have that chance today and so the next slide here is really a detailed explanation about what Northern Digital does and I've asked John to explain that to you.
Sure.
Thanks Brian.
The Northern Digital acquisition that really adds to our growing medical platform using both sensors as well as cameras is the leading provider for both optical and electromagnetic tracking systems and in minimally invasive surgery where you really had to have very precise application of treatment in a nonline-of-sight situation.
You really need to know exactly where the treatment is being applied.
And Northern Digital provides the technology and the systems that allow the doctor to be able to do that.
And this is really going into a part of the medical market that is growing very quickly around image-guided and minimally invasive surgery.
And it really has a couple of different parts to it.
You can see it's about 90% medical and it's about 60% systems and 40% consumables.
The consumables are the spheres these very high-tech optical spheres that really provide the 3D location information back to the doctor.
It's a unique and patented technology.
It has asset-light business model as all of our acquisitions do.
Really comes with a very strong and experienced management team led by Jamie Frazier.
And it's once again a very nice addition to our growing medical platform and really in the image-guided part of our medical platform.
You'll hear us talk about ultrasound applications with Verathon ultrasound type of applications with CIVCO.
This is another situation where the image-guided surgery is building on that ultrasound technology.
So it's a very nice addition for us.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Brian to talk about the new guidance for the year.
Thanks John.
We turn that page.
So we're raising guidance most importantly on our cash flow.
We now think that operating cash flow should exceed $575 million for the full year.
Our full year DEPS number now is going to be $4.20 to $4.30 which includes the GAAP $0.05 from Q2 and that's up from $3.97 to $4.12 last quarter.
In the third quarter we expect to earn between $1.05 and a $1.09 which is up about 25% from the $0.87 that we earned in the third quarter last year.
And I'd remind you actually that third quarter last year was an exceptionally strong quarter.
So we think that's quite good performance around the guidance going forward given the strength of last year's third quarter.
Next slide.
If we look at how Q2 then shapes up in terms of a summary we wound up with all-time historical quarter performance for any quarter in our history even better than the fourth quarter of last year for order sales backlog and operating cash flow.
The very broad-based momentum throughout the enterprise we have a number of small niche P&amp;Ls and almost all of them are up.
Total sales growth at 23% the gross margin up 70 basis points.
Operating margin where you can really see the leverage was up 240 basis points.
So on the incremental operating margin against the incremental sales our leverage in the quarter was 34%.
EBITDA because of the noncash amortization that hits the OP margin EBITDA was up higher at 280 basis points to 28.5% and that excludes the remeasurement gain.
Of course if we kept that in there under GAAP we'd have even higher leverage.
So the leverage on EBITDA was 40% of the new revenue.
Record backlog ended the quarter at $872 million.
We raised the guidance to $4.20 to $4.30.
And I think most importantly when you see what's happening here is that our niche business focus continues to deliver these outstanding results.
When so many people concentrate on what are you going to do about the BRICS? What are you doing about that? What are you doing this? Our sales into the BRICS were about 5% of revenue in the second quarter this year and they were about 5% of revenue in the second quarter last year maybe a little less.
So that's helpful but that's not what's absolutely required for us to continue to grow.
It was another just terrific quarter and we're positioned of course for a record year.
And with that I think we can open up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Investment Research.
Brian I'm wondering if you could give us a little more color on the tag and traffic opportunities that you're referring to in the second quarter.
Obviously there's some municipal secrecy around it.
We understand that but if there's some additional color you could give us there would be helpful.
No we just -- we continue to migrate people to smaller and easier to apply sticker tags and those tend to replace the hard case tag technologies at a relatively fast pace.
So this is more growth in our core markets: Texas Oklahoma Florida.
We have the benefit of North Carolina rolling out in second half of the year.
And then we'll have some international development in the Middle East that will improve shipments.
So all those things help.
So I think one thing that has really been sort of encouraging it's counterintuitive to how we would think about municipal spending is that we've got a number of design projects that we're doing some in the Far West an important one that we just won around Pennsylvania on a conversion project.
So our traffic business is actually doing pretty well.
And I think we probably commented in here relative to -- we would have expected it to be a headwind.
And it's been certainly neutral to modest upside for us.
Great.
And just for John.
John you gave us the organic for RF.
Could you give us just kind of high-level kind of the organic level? The organic sales reach of the other segments? Sure.
Yes I can do that.
The organic growth by segment for industrial technology was 23%.
For the medical and imaging it was 12%.
For RF Technology it was 13% and for our energy systems and controls it's 18%.
We'll hear next from Deane Dray of Citi.
I want to follow up in the RF segment with a couple questions the first on CBORD.
It was interesting that you're recognizing higher sales for the college and universities.
It was my sense that maybe it's the timing of when you actually do the installations during the summer months.
So maybe it's a revenue recognition on these orders but is the understanding that you're doing most of the deployments during the summer months? Deane it is true that we do most of the deployments during the summer months.
However because of the software recognition rules that we have and the fact that we really sell the software on a 1-year license basis we actually defer that revenue over a 12-month period.
So there's a little bit of benefit during the installation phase associated with the products.
But by and large CBORD is a software business.
It accounts for well over 2/3 of their revenue is software and naturally spread ratably over the year.
So the growth that we're seeing there is not because of installations.
It's because of new wins and the continued deployment of software into other areas like security application in a campus environment.
Great that's helpful.
And then On CBORD one of the comps was Blackboard and I was hoping Brian could comment on the sale into private equity of Blackboard.
I mean obviously there's a validation of the value of CBORD but are there any other implications? Well I think it validates that not everybody has picked up on how valuable all of our software-as-a-service solution businesses are.
I mean these businesses in public markets routinely trade at 20x to 25x enterprise by EBITDA.
And the last time I looked we weren't quite there yet in our multiple.
So we just encourage people to realize how important these businesses are and how valuable they are.
Eventually I think maybe somebody will catch up to us on that.
So we see a lot of upside for recognition on what we're doing and how we're doing it.
And then just a last one for me on iTrade.
Hopefully you could comment on or expand your comments.
Two things you said interesting.
One is that you wanted to see them keep to their core business and then also maybe clarify what you meant about being more nimble in Europe? Well we won this major project in Europe.
We -- I don't know if we're ever going to be able to say who it is until somebody figures that out.
It's getting business -- it's like dealing with some of our favorite customers here in the U.S.
who never want us to say anything.
But it's a big deal and we have to improve our infrastructure there to do that.
I think that we're learning that trying to do that out of our U.S.
locations is a little bit difficult.
So getting global reach and the integration around the global reach is we're moving at a very fast pace and adding executive talent to help us in Europe in that respect.
And we felt as we've been going through the business that some of the projects that people were looking at were a little less exciting we felt than getting the global growth out of the core business.
So we've encouraged them to worry a little less about certain types of things and invest more in the things that they can really control and I think that that'll produce really good results for us in 2012.
We'll hear next from Alex Blanton of Clear Harbor Asset Management.
LLC</strong> Brian listen what are you going to do when the economy recovers? I mean...
Well we're a little excited about that ourselves.
But the economy to be fair I mean the industrial business that portion of the economy has recovered and the energy business is certainly recovering even though it should be better in the second half.
LLC</strong> Yes.
You referred to the BRICS and 5% of sales being there.
And yet there is -- for a lot of the products that you have it seems to me there's tremendous opportunity there.
I suggest that you don't have time to address those opportunities and because you're growing so rapidly elsewhere because other companies are in the position of having to go to the BRICS in order to get any growth at all some of them.
So you don't have that problem.
I think that's the difference between having products that are really mature products and looking for geographic expansion with those mature products versus ourselves which are primarily solution providers with a lot of application engineering and very few standard products.
And so in order for us to -- let's take India for instance where our bid activity and channel development is expanding most rapidly.
Again our markets are pretty small right? So it's pretty hard to make a major investment in India that might drive $10 million in growth for 3 of the pump companies.
It's just not pragmatic and the things that we do are so application-specific that you probably got to have to rely on local distribution for what happens and we're probably the most conservative people you'll meet on how we look at distribution channels and assuring that we're very comfortable with all the activity that create revenue in these countries.
LLC</strong> Yes I can see that.
Are there any opportunities at all in China for you do you think? Oh absolutely.
China's growing rather dramatically.
And maybe John you want to comment on the growth in China? Sure.
In effect China represents one of the BRIC countries.
Obviously China is the largest for us and we have a variety of things that we're doing there both selling sort of our industrial products whether it be our sensors and instruments for the plastic and latex businesses or our marine applications out of AMOT and valves there.
And if they continue to adopt more safety standards we look at that as a growing opportunity for some of our diesel engine safety systems as well as some of the compressed controllers.
So we'll continue to be there.
We have people on the ground there.
We have direct sales force looking at applications there but it's a growth area as are many other areas where our technology can be applied.
It's not going to be the sole or even major driver for our growth going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay and one more thing.
You mentioned that you have the only lead-free meter in the U.S.
water meter.
Yes.
LLC</strong> How did that -- why aren't your competitors developing that? And also what about the world? Oh we can't speak to the competitors.
But I believe that those people who haven't yet figured out a source for a lead-free water meter will be doing so pretty quickly.
Check out that shedthelead.com/video/ for 4.5 minutes.
It's quite interesting and it's a nontechnical video.
It's actually been made for municipal water companies.
There's thousands of these in the country and for them to kind of understand the innuendo that's been occurring the last couple of years is a bit difficult.
This is a very simple way of trying to get people to say oh gee now I get it.
We'll move next to Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Brian you mentioned that shale projects in the U.S.
driving a lot of at least the pump businesses and industrial tech.
Is energy systems also seeing a net benefit from that activity? Has it been a material contributor to your end-market demand? Well it's different in the 2 cases.
In the case of Roper pump it affects growing operations.
In the case of Cornell it's dewatering pumps.
When you get to energy it's more around our what we call a DESS [ph] business which is -- are these control technologies to assure that the diesel engines shut off.
And we continue to work both with OSHA here in the U.S.
and various agencies around the world about the importance of these shutoff valves and the recognition continues to grow and we've got the best mousetrap on this in the world.
So that's helping us a lot.
So certainly any place you're going to have oil shale activity we're going to get benefited in energy and real directly in our fluid handling business.
I've been looking at industrial tech continues to impress on the operating margin line.
Is 20% what you're thinking is kind of a sustainable level over the next cycle here or is another 100 bps or so available? If you think about you said that you're reducing the raw material content in your water meters which obviously Neptune's a big portion of that segment do you still see upside there? Are your recovering your costs from the copper spikes? Yes I'd say that we've done a great job in managing through the cost increases in copper.
I mean I can remember when it used to be $0.74 a pound or something and here it is at $4.39.
And now there's almost 2 pounds of copper in every meter so it's a big deal when you got a product that maybe sells for $20 or something.
So we would give them great credit for how they're performing.
Now we continue to make a commitment that we're going to have lead-free water meters that are bronze-based technologies as opposed to some people who are looking at going to plastic which we think is a long way from being a safe installation project for people.
In the pump businesses we generally have enough pricing power that if we've got cost-push inflation on materials side that we can pass that through and not mark it up it's almost just a separate side matter of things.
So it hasn't really hurt us in any event.
I think we continue to get leverage as revenue goes up so on the OP line you could see we got 34% leverage in the quarter.
And in both industrial and energy we don't have very much noncash amortization that's coming off of those.
So that kind of 30% 35% leverage I think continues with us.
That ought to be a perpetual opportunity as long as revenue is expanding.
We'll hear next from Christopher Glynn of Oppenheimer.
I had a question on CBORD.
Wondering if you could update what you see as the public school opportunity and some rollout there or if that adoption really doesn't seem to be a current story? Well we think about 2 different things maybe.
I'm not sure we understand your question.
CBORD is primarily focused on college and university environments so it wouldn't matter whether that was a state school or a private institution.
Horizon is focused on elementary education and K through 12 and there most of that business is public business.
It's really driven by nutrition management and by sorting out how much the free lunch program is going to be paid for individual people and the proof of that.
And so Horizon has very large public institution contracts like Dallas Philadelphia Los Angeles things like that and bids large contracts in that arena and then also does somewhat smaller domain places as well.
Okay thanks for the clarification.
And just the second half tax rate built into the guidance? Second half tax rate we're expecting to be in the range of 30% bringing the full year to also in the range of 30%.
So kind of through the first half we're at 30.4%.
And then just timing related we probably expect Q3 to be a little bit better than that and Q4 we'll have to see.
We'll move next to Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Brian wonder if you'd talk about the M&amp;A landscape from the perspective of the different platforms where you see maybe more activity relatively speaking? And then maybe you can remind us where this Software-as-a-Service as a percentage of the total company is today and where you see that going over the next 3 to 5 years? Well let's say from a software -- we continue to see a lot of opportunities in what we call network technologies.
And it's a very ironic thing about -- as we look at all of our businesses on a niche basis and we want to keep focused on a P&amp;L basis and customer profitability basis I think we do a great job in that arena.
And as a result of their kind of customer intimacy they don't lend themselves to forced synergies from a physical asset basis.
So in our pump we've got a great centrifugal pump company we got a great piston pump company.
You can't put those factories together they fundamentally do different kind of things.
In the network arena that's actually not true.
I mean it's very ironic but in fact they're doing a lot of data storage they've got a lot of things that are really quite similar in the back end of an enterprise that you can nimbly get a lot of synergies around.
So it's absolutely positive to get cost synergies out of software network businesses that we can't get out of the industrial and energy businesses.
So that makes them pretty attractive.
And as long as these small network opportunities are available we think it's an attractive place to invest.
Now we're not trying to turn Roper into a single-use software network application company so we believe our focus around that has been opportunistic.
They generate more cash than the other businesses do and they require less assets and they virtually never have anything that depreciates and their assets go home at night.
And as long as you motivate them you get a wonderful cash-on-cash return over a long period of time.
Today John I don't know if you've provided much guidance around overall revenue but that it's getting to be certainly a very significant portion of the RF business.
At some point we're going to split this out for you so that you'll see the tolling business completely separate from all the rest of the RF business.
That's something I expect we would probably do for 2012 so that it's easier for everybody to see the variance in the 2 because you do have this terribly lumpy TransCore order input situation that's up terrifically in Q1 and down a little bit in Q2 but over the first half of the year it's double-digit growth.
But it certainly makes it confusing.
So we just have to do a few things to get that in place to be able to respond to your question clearly which we'll do for next year.
Okay.
And on the M&amp;A landscape? Well the M&amp;A landscape we think people that are doing public company deals continue to generally overpay for them.
We've had a lot of stuff in the pipeline.
I think that it's not necessarily that we're focused on the medical product arena and the network software arena but that's what we're seeing more of than other assets.
We haven't seen energy assets other than very small bolt-on type things that we think have been priced at a level that we'd be comfortable with.
And the industrial asset arena we continue to grow internally for the most part as opposed to looking at asset acquisitions.
So I think that the next acquisitions you'll see from us are likely to be in network technology or additional medical build-out.
Okay.
And then in terms of the second half guidance on just the organic side it sounds like you're seeing or expecting a pretty similar rate 3Q versus 4Q but I want to make sure I cleanly translated some comments on a couple of segments in that context.
We'll have better but we would expect to have better growth in Q3 on a revenue basis than we would in Q4 and our guidance really would indicate that.
So if markets were as good as they've been recently and trends continue then maybe there'd be some upside in Q4.
But our view is Q3 is going to be better than we would have originally expected.
Q2 was better than we certainly expected.
So both Q3 and 4 are very difficult comps.
We had just a blowout in the fourth quarter last year it's going to be tough to do substantially better than that.
But we've had other tough challenges too.
We'll move next to Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
John could you just provide maybe a little bit more guidance on the Northern Digital kind of business metrics.
I mean what kind of revenue run rate do we expect there for instance? And also just maybe a growth rate here over the next couple of years? Sure.
I mean what we've said about that is that revenue should be in the $50 million to $60 million range for the next 12 months.
It's been growing substantially as more image-guided surgery utilizes the equipment and the consumables that they have and so we expect their double-digit growth rate to continue at least for the next few years and we'll have to look at it beyond that.
But all of the trends with their technology and the trends in the marketplace around having less invasive more image-guided surgery are favorable for them.
And is this kind of a GAAP EBIT contributor in terms of double digit in terms of over 20% plus in terms of kind of GAAP to EBIT as it drops in contribution margin? It will be in that range yes.
Okay all right.
And then also Brian how do you feel about iTrade's revenue run rate here? I know you talked a little bit to the opportunities and the bidding opportunities especially international.
How do you feel about their iTrade's revenue run rate as it stood for the first 6 months of the year? It's been lower than what we would've liked to have seen.
But on the other hand there were a couple things that they were doing in data analytics that are interesting to do.
But they've got an absolutely great core program and we'd like to see that core program grow and expand rapidly and so I think they probably could have grown a little better than they have so we've been refocusing on what we consider to be the most important customer opportunities.
They're probably running a few million under what we would have expected that they would do but it's still a fantastic group of people and a wonderful business and it's already created a lot of shareholder value and it will create more in the future.
Is their core revenue -- is the volatility maybe there or what they can deliver on a quarterly basis? Is that more a function of their customer base and the volumes to their customer base? I mean the way I understand that business model it's not a function of how many new accounts you're signing up rather what's the underlying business activity? Is that how to think about their revenue on a quarterly run rate? No it's not actually around how much activity is running through their network.
It's really around how many people are subscribed.
So think of it as a subscription-type business and the more that their customers will deploy this to their suppliers.
So it's really around how quickly the customers are able to bring their suppliers onto the network which is not a huge technical challenge.
It's really a business process challenge for the customer not really for iTrade.
So our growth is a dependent on getting new customers which we continue to do and then how quickly those customers roll this solution out to their supply base.
Okay and then just a last question.
When I looked at the orders number the $707.6 million what was the core growth rate in orders versus the $14.3 million? From an organic standpoint it was about 8% up and the book-to-bill ratio was just over -- under 1%.
Our next question comes from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
A couple of questions I want to talk about the RF Tech business for a minute.
The operating margins performance you had in Q2 was probably the best you've had in the last 10 or 12 quarters.
I now it's a mix-sensitive business.
So can you talk a little bit about the mix dynamics that you encountered in Q2 and kind of what the project activities that's on the board for the back half of the year? How should we think about RF Tech margins proceeding from here? Well the worst margins are always going to be in the transport traffic segment which is heavy administrative activity violation processing and lane expansion and moving traffic lights and those type of things.
Whenever we have growth in the other portions of the activity at much faster rate than those business grow then we get a whole lot better contribution because I mean you're looking at an order of magnitude several times the difference there.
So the other thing that's happening of course is we get more embedded growth out of the software businesses at the expense of the TransCore tolling and traffic business and so as you get that you get a higher margin capture and better cash.
And lastly when the tag shipments occur then that tends to be better than the administrative margin activity does.
So the administrative activity hasn't grown.
In fact it was down a little bit I believe in the second quarter year-over-year and so that's bad news on revenue good news on margins.
And then just in the medical life sciences-related area specifically with Verathon you talk about kind of the new product pipeline for 2012 and moving forward with Heartscape.
And now that you're kind of few quarters into that process have you thought about it or can you give us some sort of parameter around what you think these next-generation products out of Verathon can add incrementally to revenue next year? I think you probably got to wait for another quarter or 2.
I mean we're finished with the -- the trials are completed and done and accepted on Heartscape but it takes a while to get that into the marketplace.
The reaction has been very favorable to people as we explain it to them and demo it at hospitals.
But we're not going to provide guidance on that for another probably 2 quarters.
We'll move next to Wendy Caplan of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> If we look at CBORD and Horizon and Neptune and TransCore and iTrade have there been any meaningful market share shifts in any of those businesses as far as you can tell at this point? Well each one will be a bit different right? I mean Neptune clearly has been up double digits in the first half of the year.
Some of the other public companies they either have debt or publicly traded have reported degradation in numbers.
So whether that's project related or us gaining share is always hard to answer but we've certainly been outperforming people this year so I'd say they're gaining share.
But I think for us what we're encouraged by is we ought to gain more share in the future because I think we've got a clearly superior lead-free technology to people.
On the Technolog front I mean that's something that certainly gains share but it's like a turnkey thing and then you fill it out right so it's doing fine.
On CBORD it's certainly -- I believe most people would agree that it has gained share at the expense of people with universities that it's taken over that used to be covered by different folks.
So it's definitely gaining share.
I think it's so focused rather than being somebody that's in a diverse area.
I think we're really proud of the team we have and the customer intimacy they have and the follow-up they have with customers and their ability to get things integrated online.
So I think they'll continue to gain share.
And I'd say the same with Horizon.
The Horizon activity is very better than we would have hoped for given the difficulty with educational spending.
I think if you ever got any relief around funding in the K through 12 arena which you may or may not get if you get it it's probably because of nutrition.
We see a lot of build-out opportunities where we can do things beside the meal platform of what happens in K through 12 education around data gathering and we have a number of new software developments that we're putting in place around how a school can manage its kind of inflow of cash from families.
Our MealpayPlus program it's a homerun but it can get applied to a lot of new avenues and they're working hard on that now.
Inc.</strong> And finally an update on Freight Matching? Freight Matching continues to be a spectacular business.
It's doing well.
It's got growth this year.
It's certainly having all of its normalized renewals that continue so not a massive revenue number but a fantastic cash-on-cash growth number and we're very glad to own it.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you Jennifer.
And thank you all for joining us this morning.
We looking forward to talking to you again in October.
And again that does conclude our conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
The Roper Industries Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
Just a reminder todays presentation is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Becky and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our record third quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Soni Vice President and Controller.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We've prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also available are on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you please turn to Slide 2 we'll begin with our safe harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we'll be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed more fully in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
And now if you please turn to Slide 3.
I'll turn the call over to Brian Jellison Roper's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we'll take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John good morning everybody.
We'll start off with a quick overview of the Q3 financial results and then talk specifically about the segment performance and outlook for the fourth quarter update you on our guidance summary and then Ill open it up to questions and answers.
So first slide.
If we look at the Q3 financial results once again they were an all time record for any quarter in the history of the company not just a record third quarter.
Orders were at the highest level and history sale is the same.
Backlog the highest level net earnings the highest level and operating and free cash flow in the quarter set a new standard for the company.
Our total sales in the quarter were up 18% and organic sales were up 13% which was frankly better than expected.
Our book-to-bill was greater than 1.0 for the ninth straight quarter and our record backlog of $876 million is up $106 million from the third quarter a year ago.
Operating margins were terrific throughout the enterprise.
They were up 230 basis points so that operating margin was 23.5% of revenue in the quarter.
Our EBITDA was $203 million in the quarter which is a fairly astonishing number by any standard and EBITDA margin was 28.6%.
Our operating cash flow was 23% of sales at $167 million and our free cash flow was 22% of sales at $157 million.
Next slide.
If we look at the income statement you can see bookings again were above 1.0 at 1.01.
Net sales were as we said up 13% organically.
Gross profit picked up 50 basis points from a year ago.
Our operating income was up 30% from $128 million to $167 million and margin at 23.5% up from 21.2% in the third quarter a year ago.
Our tax rate was actually a headwind in the quarter.
In the third quarter last year it's only 25.9%.
As most of you would know third quarter results tend to have whatever rollover there is in 1040A calculation for filing tax returns.
This year our tax rate was 27.7% a 180 basis points increase over the prior year which took a couple of pennies out of our results.
Net earnings were $110 million up 31% from the prior year and our diluted earnings per share were $1.12 versus $0.87.
Next slide free cash flow in the quarter was truly spectacular 22% of revenue and a 142% of net earnings.
This will be the 14<sup>th</sup> consecutive year that our free cash flow has exceeded net earnings.
And really we had very strong execution throughout the family of businesses and you can see the comparisons prior-year here on the graph.
Next slide and up from $507 million in 2009.
Part of the reason for that is continued margin expansion.
Our EBITDA margins in 2009 were 24.5% for that TTM period.
In 2010 they were up 140 basis points to 25.9% and this year as they get skyrocketed to 28.5% from 25.9% Next slide our Asset Velocity performance continues to be best in class.
We can see inventory has actually dropped to 7.4% from 8.9% just two years ago.
Our receivables are down 200 basis points to 14.7% from 16.7% just a terrific performance by all of our field operating units around receivables.
And payables and accruals have actually come down and our numbers would be even more spectacular.
Also in total when we look at the inventory plus receivables minus payables on accruals we finished the quarter at 6.5% thats 240 basis points better than just two years ago.
So our exceptional performance in that category continues.
Next slide here we look at our sort of balance sheet and financial position.
We ended the quarter with $246 million in cash.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA is $779 million.
Our gross debt number is $1.174 billion.
If you take that 246 in cash away youve got net debt at $928 million.
Shareholder equity continues to be strong there in excess of $3 billion meeting our net debt-to-net cap numbers about 23%.
Our gross debt-to-EBITDA is about 1.5 times so we have very ample capacity inside anything wed like to do.
And in our EBITDA-to-interest coverage is over 12 times.
Now in the last two years weve invested $1.1 billion in transactions.
But as you can see the balance sheet is stronger than ever.
Next slide so here well take a look at our segment performance and the outlook for the rest of the year.
Next slide our Q3 segment performance was remarkably similar you can see EBITDA margins and industrial RF and medical are over 31% and in energy they were 29%.
The OP margins continue to march forward as we have revenue growth and we capture leverage associated with that and through out the enterprise we are very happy with the margin performance.
Next slide if we go to the largest segment in the quarter it was RF Technology.
It had sales up 19% operating profit was up 41% and the operating profit margin reached 23.8% the leverage on incremental revenue was about 44%.
So we had very strong growth throughout the segment organic sales are up 15%.
The software businesses had double-digit organic growth with particular tribute to CBORD Our Freight Matching business grew at a double-digit rate as weve got more new subscribers in their very favorable dynamics occurring in the spot market due to volatility in gasoline prices and driver shortages and truck shortages.
Our Toll &amp; Traffic Solutions business which is less than half of the segment wed remind people did well as a result of an upgrade were were converting Puerto Rico from a coin based technology to an electronic technology and we have strong tag shipments in several locations around the world.
In the fourth quarter looking forward we are going to continue to benefit from this Electronic Tolling project in Puerto Rico our iTrade business enters with a strong backlog and we expect double-digit growth and it will finally be showing up as organic growth here in the fourth quarter for us.
The CBORD backlog remains strong enough to assure double-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
We expect to get continued margin improvement even given what we had here in the third quarter we think well do even a bit better in the fourth quarter.
And our Technolog operations in France where weve been installing a system we would hope that that gets completed in the fourth quarter and then in 2012 that will allow us to get our data services revenue which comes in at lower revenue but much higher margins.
Next slide here looking at the Industrial Technology segment while we often focus on Neptune because its traditionally been about half the segment growth in the other areas is nothing short of spectacular.
Here orders were up substantially above the sales revenue of $185 million.
The sales were up 15% from the prior year.
Operating profit was up 16% and operating profit margin in the industrial businesses was 28.2%.
Fluid Handling continues to perform just in a very strong manner driven really by all of the shale gas and oil activity thats occurring in Canada and the US lots of new customers and a lot of new applications.
New products and strong end markets are also helping our material test business which is off to a record year by a considerable margin.
And then in Neptune the North American Meter Revenue was relatively flat but we had strong growth in Mexico and Canada.
Surprisingly the US order flow in the third quarter was up more than 10% in the US.
We had a very successful launch of our low profile lead free residential water meter.
A lot of people are crying out to check the shedthelead video that we have and it certainly created a lot of interest in our water meter business.
So when we look to Q4 we expect strong seasonality.
Generally speaking we had year-end buys from people in both this and the Energy business and we havent seen any trends that would indicate that would not occur again this year.
Neptune is going to get double digit growth led by the Toronto Installation Activity which is going to start to pick up in the fourth quarter and be substantially stronger in 2012.
And then our favorable end markets they are pretty much generally true and so just know were not doing well and the 30 plus percent leverage we got in Q3 we would hope will improve even a bit more in the rest of the year and next.
If we go to our next slide.
If you look here at the Medical &amp; Scientific Imaging segment it was up 16% in the revenue.
Orders actually exceeded sales and orders were up sequentially from the second quarter.
Operating profit was up 24% compared to the sales increase of 16% so we had strong leverage here about 34%.
And the OP margin increased to 150 basis points to 24.7.
Our high-end imaging solutions driven largely by Gatans quantum and direct detection camera lines are continuing to perform in a fantastic way and we have a new product out there thats processing frame speeds at 83 gigabytes a second.
I'm not sure anybody can relate to just exactly how fast that is but its Bleeding Edge Technology for the most supreme applications in the research area and has added substantially to our growth this year.
The medical platform continues to perform well write-ups and comments about this and we think it will be a long-term winning proposition for the enterprise.
In the third quarter on an order comparison basis we had very tough comps because of two things that happened last year.
We do report our Rugged Mobile business in here which is certainly not keyed to the enterprise but it had a particularly strong Q3 order for long-term delivery last year which of course wouldnt have been repeated in any one quarter and we saw that new initiation of an order.
And then we had very strong dosage delivery business last year and this year it was more normal so both had created a bit of headwind in terms of the cost.
But if you [mask] take that away their book-to-bill was above one sequentially higher than second quarter and our backlog is strong so we dont expect any difficulty here.
In the fourth quarter we wind up of course with record backlog entering the quarter so that kind of assures our shipment pattern should be fine.
We expect to have continued growth in medical because the patient treatment and technologies that were involved in are continuing to grow.
We have a higher fourth quarter because Northern Digital which was acquired will begin to kick in.
It has traditionally strong seasonality in the fourth quarter and we havent seen anything that wouldnt suggest that will occur here.
Next slide.
Here when we get to Energy Systems &amp; Controls you can see once again very strong performance.
Sales were up 22% orders were just slightly ahead of sales up 12% operating profit was up 35% and our OP margins expanded 250 basis points to 25.7%.
Growth again is led by a continued development of the Diesel Engine Safety System technology and that continues to get this US and North American shale activity.
Weve got some new engine OEMs that are building that technology into their platforms and that helps as well.
We had a record Q3 in terms of our instrument sales around our refinery business so that seems to be picking up steam.
It had been slow it had been much better this year but still relatively slow.
One of the very few businesses that's not back to the 2008 results and now that's largely there.
We had an expansion in our Alpha and Viatran and Dynisco family of businesses around sensor technologies.
They have been up over 30% here for instrumentation to major composites and process manufacturing and just excellent execution throughout the segment with the exception of our nuclear Techs business which has been very soft due to the nuclear plant shutdowns around the world but fortunately its not a big piece of the total.
In the fourth quarter we will benefit from an acquisition that we made right at the end of the third quarter called United Controls.
United Controls is a small business in the Midwest which has a large OEM component with Rolls Royce.
It's got great field service technical support and its technology is very complementary to our Compressor Control business.
Weve done very little historically with Rolls Royce and so this gives us a new partner in effect to provide field service and aftermarket application for technology improvements and it certainly expands our OEM channel access.
In the oil and gas area with the trends has continued to perform exceptionally well and there's no downturn of any kind we expected this year or early next.
And seasonality here has always been very important.
The fourth quarter there's a lot of MRO purchases that tend to get done in the fourth quarter both residual budgets.
We expect that would continue this year and we also think margins in this segment will expand in the fourth quarter however they were reported in the third.
Given all that we'll look now at the guidance update.
Next slide.
The guidance we are increasing our full year guidance from 4.20 to 4.30 to 4.29 to 4.33.
Now we started out this year with guidance of 3.82 to 4.02 and when we look cumulatively weve actually now increased our low-end guidance by $0.47.
So at 4.29 to 4.33 that results in Q4 at $1.18 to $1.22 and our full year operating cash flow will exceed $575 million on net leverage.
Next slide.
If you look at our summary here before we get into the Q&amp;A period what we have is the best quarter in the history of the company.
Its the highest level of sales orders backlog net earnings operating and free cash flow ever.
Organic sales came in at plus 13% largely driven by new products and new applications to existing customers and then favorable niche markets.
We are really not seeing any slowdown in any activity and any of the things that we might consider to be bellwether items that would say things are getting slower were not seeing that.
Very broad-based momentum as we entered the fourth quarter which has allowed us to increase our guidance.
Our gross margin is at 53.7% certainly best in class operating margins at 23.5% with 36% overall leverage on new revenue again I think probably best in class.
Operating cash flow at 23% of sales is nothing short of spectacular.
And really a new milestone for us its just as we said I dont think people are focused on just how much our EBITDA is growing.
But our operating cash flow now in the last two years has exceeded $1 billion for the first time in our history and you think about those acquisitions in the last two years and the $1.1 billion in cash flow over a $1 billion and as we give you some idea about our capacity in transactions looking forward and the cash machine that weve created here.
So with that I think were ready for questions gentlemen.
Okay.
All right Becky.
So if youll start the question-and-answer part of the call.
Thank you.
We will now go to our question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Just couple of questions; first Brian how are you thinking about the businesses whether it would be in Imaging or RF Tech or industrial technology the touch areas that or at least in part funded by public sources municipal sources.
How are you feeling about those businesses heading into 2012 and I guess what risks or conversely opportunities do you see in those businesses? Well yes.
Its certainly an industrial you got Neptune thats selling product to municipal water facilities but we are not really seeing any slowness at all in that arena so we said our orders are in the US for them are up over 10% in the third quarter.
So thats really not a problem area for us at the moment.
And in fact I think the municipal funding had start to pick up a little steam with muni bonds.
So we were worried about that going into the year and certainly outperformed our peers if not as robust as it was in the past but new products and applications and selling some software along with data clients helps that.
In the Imaging arena you have the NIH situation in the US and then similar situation in Japan those which people fears a little slow but technologies weve launched through our research scientists are so compelling that they really blown through any of that risks.
Were not seeing anything that would be measured as softness.
It would be driven by the National Institute of Health funding award or really the Japanese.
You see a little more of that actually in Europe than you do here but nothing thats much of a headwind.
So thats actually better than we would have expected.
In the radio frequency arena again the applications we have tend to be cash registers for people.
So they are not really viewed as capital spending.
I think its a work delivering sort of immediate pay backs for people.
Wed be more worried than they are.
We certainly performed better in the third quarter on our order and sales basis than we would have expected because we do occasionally listen to the news and managed.
If you looked at all the externalities youd be scared to death.
But fortunately our businesses are so nichy and so specific and value-added that those externalities havent had much effect on us at this long.
So were not seeing nor does anybody feel fearful about the fourth quarter or frankly next year.
Okay Brian.
And then just one more follow-up can you talk a little bigger picture about what you guys are seeing from an M&amp;A standpoint? It sounded like you are closed on it sounded at least like a relatively small transaction here within the last couple weeks.
How are you thinking about M&amp;A activity kind of over the near to intermediate term how are multiples trending what size transactions or businesses are you looking at how healthy is your pipeline? Well bunch of different questions in there Matt adding to that.
I think control is small deal.
Its less than its about $25 million but strategic nonetheless and very strategic for Compressor Controls so material to them.
Pipeline remains very fully up continuing activity and a lot going on there.
I think well be finally seeing a little breakdown in Europe where the European banks are offering very much support for us and not to long ago you're seeing 6.5 times debt staples from those folks and now were not seeing any debt staples from those folks so that had an effect both on the reality and the attitude of people.
Debts rating in US have dropped.
I think the hard for most people to get a debt funding for transaction more than about five times EBITDA and so that trends the multiple down and so were not going to put in our whole lot more equity than they would have before when debt staple was much higher.
Furthermore the strengths for them in that blended cost of their interest so we get a deal that are higher now than they were if strengths have gone up a bit on masonite portion to debt.
So were seeing multiples come down a little bit.
Our sellers are still their expectations throughout the year were too high.
Its one of the reasons that with our disciplined approach we havent done a large transaction.
But we continue to look at a number of large transactions and sometime I think in the foreseeable future well execute on something.
Most deals were looking at are relatively large and I wouldnt expect that there is always this kind of the United (inaudible) situation.
We could have two or three of those but we're kind of patiently waiting for the right balance here.
People still are worried about CMS reimbursement on medicals.
So that's an area you have to be exceptionally careful in.
And in the software side weve got things going that we like a lot.
And is just a price gap kind of discussion and we're patient and ultimately it's better to be patient.
We don't need to do a deal because the deal is available.
We need to do a deal because it makes sense for our institutional holders and our shareholders.
Thanks Brian.
Next well hear from Deane Dray with Citi.
Thank you.
Good morning Brian and John.
First question for price cost in the quarter; can you take us through that and Id be very interested in how much of that 13% organic was helped by price? Well Dean itll take that one.
I mean the way we always look at the price cost equation rather than looking at each of those in isolation those always have to be looked at in combination with each other.
And so what we always track is our gross profit margin.
And the fact that gross profits came in at 53.7% and up 50 basis points from where we were at this point last year.
It gives us confidence that our businesses are doing the right things with respect to pricing and having up any material cost inflation.
As you know the only real exposure that we have any type of raw material input cost is in copper and it goes into our Neptune business; and Neptune has really done a couple of very smart things.
One with the redesign of the residential water meter which reduces the amount of material content as well as improves the quality for the customers which is real positive thing so that mitigates some of that exposure.
And then we also just entered into supply agreements that are usually six to nine months out which gives us a little bit better visibility and what the cost structure is going to look like on the input side which allows us to still be able to manage the price equation in a way that doesnt really drove the customers around all the time in that end market.
So those are the things that we look at and so were confident that our businesses have done the right things on price cost as long as we continue to have the gross profit margins where we see them.
Okay.
Thanks helpful.
And then just over on the businesses Brian hope you can expand on the point regarding the shale gas opportunity and I trust this includes the fracking phenomenon thats going on.
And if I am not mistaken this opportunity crosses both the Industrial business as well as the Energy business you know on the dewatering pumps and the diesel engine shut-off.
So what is the opportunity for Roper in aggregate and do these two businesses within Roper combine to have more of a one go-to-market strategy or is it just an individual selling of components? Well its all of our Pump businesses Abel Cornell and Roper have different reason to be involved with fracking and movement.
And in addition Abel does a lot of other thing that are related to municipal water.
Its a German company largely involved in India and Australasia for the most part.
Our Cornell and Roper businesses are dewatering and also directional growing and support for the speed in which you can move to drill through the geological issues that are in front of that.
Then the diesel shot-off valve is really making sure that all these diesel engines in fact do shut-off instead it continue to run after somebody turn it on.
Now we also have a couple other businesses Viatran in Northern New York which is a sensor related business.
It goes into oil and gas and supports some of the technology they need to know about reading information on sensors.
So there is really about six different businesses.
They dont go to market under common sales force because its not how that business work.
So they share customers and talk about things with people but generally different influences are making buying decisions about it so you have to call through the channel mostly to the end user or mine itself.
And it does get us closer and closer to mining applications which is increasingly interesting to us.
Can you aggregate what the revenue opportunity is for this market? Well I think in total the family of businesses youre looking at are somewhere in the $200 plus million of revenue growing quite substantially in the 20% range not the 5% range.
maybe little bit more but of course not everything that they do is solely related to the oil and gas shale activity it has been the key driver its been a key driver for each of them but none of them are solely focused on that.
These are niche applications that often times will have other types of end users.
But as we have gone through into the tail that we do each quarter with our businesses the shale gas activity and the fracking activity continue to come up as one of the drivers for each of them.
Thats really helpful.
Thank you.
Next well hear from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Hi good morning Mark.
If we can look at fourth quarter John it look like the orders and backlog support appears to me double digit organic sales in 4Q is that the right way to think about it at this point with minimal FX? Closer to high single-digits but never totally about the revenue for us its about the margin discipline and cash so Right and then Brian youre continuing to drive down working capital to pretty impressive levels how much is left there it looks like youre reaching (inaudible) is that true or what do you think is? Cant be a lot less because you know years ago what we said to everybody and they used to throw a ball back for that or switched it.
Well if you got to have your payables equal to your inventory and then receivables is really a function of pricing an investment with your customer and nobody believed it everybody believes them now.
And so when you look at where we are getting the receivables down to 14.7% of sales was really a level of performance that is never good enough but freaking spectacular.
Yes so when you got 40% of your business not the US to get receivables down to this kind of levels is comforting.
I think weve got better quality people doing that work down in that clerical and administrative arena.
I think there is a real earned knowledge about where you want to invest in collections and the software and technology used to keep real fine data and the customers and all that has paid big dividends for us.
With 6.5% of sales were pretty happy we were happy at 6.8% but we only like things to improve.
Thank you Next we will hear from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Hey good morning Jeff.
Good morning Brian could you elaborate on whats going on in CBORD you said the security offering has kind of doubled was that a comment over the last year and could you give us a little more color on what you're doing there to integrate some of your other RF applications with CBORD trying to bring broader suite to that end market Well couple of things shortly year-to-date this year is about double what it was the same year-to-date period than a year ago.
Got major job at Miami University that we just completed the installation on so it is a leading edge solution to people we love at the university level but not everybody can work with those people it is not the easiest sales a lot is for equity and a lot of customer service wholesale.
And in fact integration is the right word eventually what CBORD comprise for the customers is a single integrated across a diverse campus that much of software solutions.
So you have access control you also have the ability to have payments in Food Corp et cetera and all of that tie back to a single data base single integrative real time data base about what a student or a doctor or a nurse had access to at any given time.
In fact we have had some opportunities to bring together a variety of the businesses one of them at major university in the Big Ten area bodes for and in fact in their healthcare solutions so using CBORD as well as our SIFCO business as well as in Ebonics in a way that allows all of those to talk collaboratively together which is a future opportunity which we maybe able to do more of but it really gets to the heart of what CBORD does so efficiently and we look forward to being able to grow that going forward.
Is there where you can give us just some idea to get our head around the scale of the opportunity if you think about maybe your most holistic complete application whether its at Miami or somewhere else kind of what your potential value per student per year or some kind of framework of reference so we can kind of think about how to model this or get your head around the ultimate occupancy here? I think about that you know way to give little more crisp answer the problem when answering the question is that if you look at where we get like that I wouldnt think of this a revenue per student because lets say you are doing Michigan State University which is a big application for a variety of things at CBORD.
You got you know its a Big Ten school with thousands of that but you know its not  the incremental cost of a student is exceptionally low and the dollar that we gain for an incremental student is very low.
So its really how much of the suite of services and data collection technologies they buy thats critical.
So if its a turnkey installation where somebody is putting in electronic locking mechanisms and parking control and food management and recursion management.
They are generally they have start out with the portion of the activity or try it in an area as opposed to putting in the entire university.
So the system grows over time into a fore mature suite of applications and it becomes valuable.
So its really how many new things can you win to sort of get your foot in the door with these people as they build it out.
Now weve been very fortunate in the last two years to displace another competitor in several locations and we look forward to continuing to do that.
And we have an awful lot of sweat for the activity (inaudible) we just finished CBORD User Conference within the last couple of weeks with hundreds and hundreds of people who attend it.
And it was over 500 different kinds of people who attend this conference that are thinking about ways to use our software and system data collection technologies in a variety of ways around the campus.
So its a mind share of thing that drives the growth sort of more than gosh I got the largest you ever see in the country.
I mean it could be that the smallest one would get you more revenue than a large one because the amount of seat activity theyre purchasing and the number of cards and applications that theyre applying it to right.
But its sort of a long-winded answer but its the truth.
Thank you that is helpful.
And just kind of housekeeping one from me if I could.
John just thinking about the three points of consolidated M&amp;A and two points of FX I believe the M&amp;A is more than digital.
Is there anything else in any of the other segments and can you give us a little color on the FX? iTrade and RF and Northern Digital is hardly just a very small piece there.
Oh its mostly iTrade.
Well inside RF its iTrade and inside our Medical and Imaging business its going to be Northern Digital.
The other part of your question around the FX just to kind of go through quickly the FX by segments where there is two on a consolidated basis it was 1% in RF it was 2% in imaging and then 3% industrial and 3.5% in energy.
So really reflective of the more global set of businesses inside energy and industrial whereas RF and imaging really dont have as much exposure there because of the larger medical footprint which is still largely US although lot of growth outside the US in the RF business with the large amount of recurring revenue and at our toll and traffic business.
Great thank you.
The way its going.
Next well hear from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Right thanks.
Good morning.
Had a question about the iTradeNetwork build-out in Europe just how thats progressing and if you want to put the opportunity into some context we talked about the Shell the CBORD opportunities developing elsewhere in portfolio just to kind of get some framework on that opportunity Well we got our first trading office deployment in Europe with this large contract completed successfully in the quarter.
So thats the kind of critical turnkey nature of what happens and then now with thats in place well start to see some deployment activity in Q4 which will help drive our double-digit growth that are in that in that business in the fourth quarter and that of much much more revenue in 2012 now that youve got the first trading deployment underway they should start to roll it out to the vendors.
So I think that will be very helpful to us next year.
We are still arent allowed to talk about who it is because of the sensitivity of the customer that is its among the most significant people in Europe so we expect it to be long in the future benefits for us.
Great thank you Brian and John just what would we expect for the tax rate in the fourth quarter?  Tax rate for the fourth quarter and for the full year may be somewhere in the 30% range.
As Brian mentioned some of the roll off of FIN 48 Okay thank you.
Youre welcome.
Next well hear from Alex Blanton with Clear Harbor Asset Management.
LLC</strong>  Hi good morning.
Good morning.
LLC</strong> Could you I missed one figure.
What was the initial guidance this year could you repeat that and then 3.82 to 4.02 Alex is what we established when we had the year end earnings.
LLC</strong> 3.82 to 4.02.
LLC</strong> 4.02 okay.
Now you mentioned during your opening remarks that CCC Compressor Controls has a I think it was Rolls Royce? We just acquired this company called United Controls will be primarily up with Compressor Controls.
LLC</strong> Right.
So United Controls has been doing significant work for Rolls Royce for sometime.
LLC</strong> Yes.
And United Controls was available for sale Rolls Royce had a great deal to do with whether or not it could be sold and here would be a lot of buyers.
So we were able to do that and that gives us a value to work with Rolls Royce which is fundamentally different than what we had from Compressor Controls where we had some work with them in some field work but nothing if I got it ultimate choice.
So that is going to give us very interesting build out around things in 2012 that are already committed in United Controls hence then the field service follow on with them will be quite significant to us from a current revenue view point.
So it is a really very material transaction for Compressor Controls.
LLC</strong> Yes and could you just give us little more perspective on it because when you acquired Compressor Controls in 1992 it was doing almost all its business in the aftermarket.
Upgrading compressors that had been sold by OEMs with the OEMs controls on them and it was sight at the time that there was a very large market for Compressor Controls in actually working with OEMs to put the controls on initially rather than retrofitting them later.
But that really never developed because most of these compressor makers wanted to make their own controls and sell their own controls and it was only 1% or 2% of the cost of the compressor.
Anyway so I think Compressor Controls continued to operate in the aftermarket.
Now is this a change is this a wedge into the OEM putting their controls directly on the compressors when theyre shipped from the factory? Well I wouldnt.
There is that possibility but thats not the core of the activity.
Basically United Controls has been doing for Rolls Royce what we do for other people we cant name.
So theyre primarily an aftermarket business but they can provide OEM technology.
We provide more OEM technology today than we ever had in the past who knows but at the core these are really aftermarket upgrades for people.
LLC</strong> Yes okay.
Weve got dedicated algorithms that are meaningful to the end user of the product where they can lower their seats or increase the speed manage energy much more efficiently with the use of the turbine and get more throughput at the end.
In United Controls Id say I wouldnt say had a total walk on Rolls Royce but certainly have been a very significant player for them.
And so by acquiring them we get actually some additional algorithm and specific controls that are useful for Rolls applications just like the other wins that we do for many other people.
LLC</strong> Okay so it continues to be the situation that the OEM compressor makers really arent providing the most efficient machine that they could provide and you come along and make it that way right? We can improve on whats out there.
What they provide and for this period of time we would never argue against them we love them as our customers and are prepared to sell even more to them sooner.
LLC</strong> Okay thank you.
Okay.
Next well hear from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.</strong> Yes good morning.
Brian could you talk just a minute or two about just the tone of business in Medical &amp; Scientific and maybe the outlook there.
I mean if I kind of do the math with the FX and make an assumption on Northern Digital I mean it is kind of low single digit core local currency growth this quarter and we talked a strong backlog maybe entering the fourth quarter but how do you feel about the tone of business they are going forward with some of the funding and funding issues.
Well its really been not bad at all.
The situation is that if you look at the life science CapEx type companies out there from those that are reported theyve been up about 4% in the third quarter.
Were doing better than that.
The reality is that we had a very large order for rugged mobile which reports in this segment that was a turnkey situation and if you take that out on both equations and then we have one particular customer in medical that buys are dosage pumps.
Normally this is not its a lumpy business but everyones want to get an exceptional order for multiple months and that happened in the third quarter of last year thats masking the strength there.
The strength in medical is really a bit better than you are able to see in the aggregate numbers so we also have a really important family of products around couch tops which we have been launching throughout the year and there we have bunch of different trial applications people are quite bullish about that for 2012.
So its a little slower than it was its consistently been in the low double digit or you know now its closer to sort of 10% growth but its nothing that we are not seeing any mega trend that would say there is a real problem in medical.
The camera business is  grew modestly Inc.</strong> All right.
And then also With that said Inc.</strong>  on the Industrial Tech side just to clarify your comments about Neptune we had the business was flat in the US but strong in Canada and Mexico in the quarter.
And the orders the orders were plus 10% in the US.
Is there a reason that you that you saw for the flatness in that third quarter in the US? I mean it sounds like is it a funding issue or orders were better than sales in the quarter or?  No I dont think it is a funding issue I think its just a question of timing and the comparison to the prior year.
If you kind of take a little bit of a wider lens to those I mean Neptune just if you exclude.
So weve got some very nice wins with both the Canada project which is continuing which will give us in the neighborhood of 15 maybe a little more million dollars this year and double that next year so that will continue to ramp up.
We also had nice rewards from Mexico meters so meters more standard meters going into Mexico which have a slightly different margin profile but still a nice win for us.
But if you take a wider lens and look at just the US for Neptune really on year-to-date basis revenue was up kind of in the mid single-digit range and orders continue to out pace sales.
So I mean its just the question of the component they had against the very strong third quarter last year.
But on a wider lens looking year-to-date basis were still in a pretty good position there.
Inc.</strong> Okay very good.
Thank you.
Okay.
Next well hear from Ben Elias with Sterne Agee Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey.
Good morning Ben.
I have a question its slightly on less sales.
You guys have done a great job managing through the 08 09 recession.
You know you can see the working capital turns.
We are looking at strong organic growth if we are going into a sort of slow growth environment could you just walk us through the succession planning that you guys have at Roper are there anything on your contracts that sort of limit your term in office? And you know for Brian and for John.
Thanks.
You mean long-term contracts that we have with all of these customers.
No no management contracts.
Oh yeah.
We generally dont have contracts for people.
We have long-term compensation programs for people.
They are all involved with different forms of stock option and other stock criteria and then there are cash bonus programs that are related to improvement year-over-year in operating income.
So if you think about going into any kind of a slow growth environment one of the reasons our people are so nimble on our opinion is that the only way they earn a bonus to drive continued performance is to get better in the New Year than they were in the prior year.
There is no sort of forgiveness for the fact that the market is difficult.
So all those guys are prepared to be quite nimble they have very strong operating people in all of those units and those people are  they understand their compensation better than any of us do and I think we understand it quite well.
So they are highly motivated about that and they have a very strong view of how stuff happens.
And in the enterprise level we could have somewhat compensated the same way on a cash basis.
So thats what focuses its attention here we continue to add modestly to our corporate staff weve got; weve strengthened our legal area our tax area.
We brought in a couple new executives this year that are dedicated to corporate development activity and software and medical orientation so we all have the strongest team of people that weve ever had.
For myself Ive got a long-term best in program on all my equity so that continues out to I dont know 2014 or 2015 or something and I would expect that my program of one year update so it continues just like [Walter Alston] for quite some time.
So there is no mandatory retirement ages you see in your executives?  No one of the things about a company like us we dont have a finishing plan.
So when you dont have a finishing plan its pretty hard to have a mandatory retirement program.
So we do not have a mandatory retirement program.
I think the only thing that speaks to that is our board has a mandatory retirement at age 74 and most of them are not yet in their 70s.
Okay but thats not for the CEO CFO and anyone else?  None of us here are aware of a mandatory retirement program that would affect us.
Okay thanks for that.
Second question on the diesel engine side that you mentioned you are working with some OEMs they are installing the safety systems on platforms could you tell us who some of the OEMs are and you know what the sort of lead times on those diesel engines have been? Well I think you wouldnt be surprised to learn that when youre a technology company like we are and were providing OEM technology people people have no interest in us telling if its Intel Inside unless they want to do that.
So theyve guard their own end market brand situation carefully and we are there to protect them in that regard.
So we dont provide information about who is incorporating our technology and thats always almost always part of the agreement we have with anyone anywhere.
So thats (inaudible) or the guts of a peoples businesses you talk to or a team.
Okay thank you.
And now well end our question-and-answer session for this call.
I would now like to turn it back over to Mr.
John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you Becky and thank you all for joining us today.
And we look forward to talking to you again in late January or early February as we finish up the year.
And that does conclude todays teleconference.
Thank you all for joining.
The Roper Industries Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results call will now begin.
As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
Id now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Alan and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of the fourth quarter and full-year 2011.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Paul Soni Vice President and Controller.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for todays call.
We have prepared slides to accompany todays call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at <a href="http://www.roperind.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.roperind.com</u></a>.
If you could please turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of todays call we will be making forward-looking statements were are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to todays call in the context of that information.
Now if youll please turn to Slide 3 Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thanks John.
Good morning everybody.
So well walk you through briefly how the fourth quarter looked what our full-year enterprise results for 2011 were and what some of those implications are for positioning ourselves in 2012.
Well go through the segment detail in terms of how we see 2012 by segment talk about our guidance for the coming year and then open it up for Q&amp;A.
So next slide here would be an overview of the fourth quarter.
It was an all-time record quarter for us for any quarter in the history of the Company and we had the most revenue most net earnings EBITDA EBITDA margin operating and free cash flow.
Total sales were up 9% organic sales were up 7  frankly better organic sales growth than we would have expected back six or seven months ago so things still look pretty favorable in that arena.
Gross margins were up to 54.9% demonstrating that were certainly not under a lot of price pressure in the marketplace and that everything were doing continues to work exceptionally well.
EBITDA was 222 million in the quarter which is beyond a spectacular number in our opinion.
EBITDA margins were 30.1% and certainly a milestone for Roper and speaks to the quality of the businesses that we have.
Our earnings in the quarter were $1.23 - we talk about that in the income statement here - up from $1.10.
Last year fourth quarter operating cash flow was another sort of spectacular $193 million in the quarter.
That represented 158% of net earnings on a conversion basis and represented 26% of sales.
Free cash flow was 181 million.
Same story  149% of net earnings here for conversion so it was quite a strong finish in the fourth quarter to what was an historic year for us.
Next slide  here if we look at the fourth quarter income statement youll see bookings were basically flat.
There are a couple reasons for that.
The fourth quarter last year our orders were up 23% over the prior year so it was an exceptionally unusual and difficult comp and we had three things happen that we detailed last year.
We had quite a substantial Mexican order for Neptune - that tends to be a non-recurring type of item when those happen; some unique shipments in the camera arena around some specific CAPEX that was going on in China; and then we had a Gaz de France project largely booked and that was completed in the fourth quarter this year.
So those were unusual headwinds that exceeded $30 million.
The backlog is up though as you can see by 5.5% so backlog was at $828 million which is an all-time record for a year-ending backlog number for us.
Net sales were up 9% 7% organic.
Gross profit as we covered was up 20 BPs.
Operating income at 187 million was up 13% and operating margin was above 25% up 80 BPs in the quarter.
You can see the tax rate was actually a little bit of a negative headwind in the quarter compared to last year.
We had a particularly favorable tax rate in Q4 last year  27.7 for us and the fourth quarter this year was 29% so that cost us $0.02 a share.
Nonetheless we still are in at $1.23 on DEPS.
Next slide  if you look at fourth quarter cash flow its for us kind of just a breathtaking accomplishment  193 million of operating cash flow in the quarter and thats up dramatically.
Last year our record year was 155 million and if you look at fourth quarter 2009 it was 120 million; so we just continue to pile up the cash.
If you look at the variances its up 24% as you can see on this slide from the fourth quarter a year ago and 61% from 2009.
Next slide  here well start to look at the full-year enterprise results.
Next slide  we again achieved a record result on an annual basis as well as a quarter.
On an annual basis it just again includes everything and the kitchen sink here  historic levels of orders backlog sales net earnings EBITDA operating and free cash flow.
Sales for the year were up 17% organic growth for 2011 was 13%.
Remember when we established guidance at the beginning of the year we thought organic growth might be 9 to 11 so it came in substantially stronger than we had expected.
Gross margin was up 80 BPs to 54.2% operating margin up 200 BPs to 23.6 which is really an incredible achievement for all of our 28 P&amp;Ls around the world that are so terrifically focused on margin and cash and growth.
Our EBITDA for the year was up 164 million to 802 million.
By the way we had a re-measurement gain in the second quarter and were excluding that from this 802 million number; otherwise it would have been 809 but thats a non-recurring item.
The EBITDA margin expanded to 28.7% for the full year and operating cash flow for the full year was 602 million or 22% of revenue.
Free cash flow at 561 million was 20% of sales so another terrific year for the Roper family of businesses.
Next slide  here if we look at the full-year income statement youll see bookings were up 11% on the year.
Net sales up 17 organic 13.
Gross margin up 80 BPs operating margin up 200 as we said.
Tax rate on the year came in at 29.4 which was 130 BPs headwind compared to the prior year so that cost us $0.08 a share.
Despite that we reported DEPS of 4.34 and the one thing wed point out there again is that re-measurement gain is in the GAAP number at 4.34.
Next slide  here if we look at our EBITDA growth you can see the trends and performance in terms of capturing our gross margins in the form of EBITDA for our investors.
We had EBITDA of 802 as we mentioned which is up 300 million from two years ago.
Our EBITDA margins two years ago were 24.5% and common questions to us always are how are you ever going to keep those margins?  Theyve got to degrade.
Nobody can have margins like this.
Theyre going to regress to some artificial mean that S&amp;P 500 companies are stuck with; but thats not the case here.
As you can see our margins were up from 24.5% to 26.7% last year and just continued forward at 28.7% this year.
Thats a 420 basis point improvement in just two years in our EBITDA margins.
Next slide  our full-year cash flow again tells the story of Ropers business model:  602 million in operating cash flow representing 22% of revenue free cash flow 20% of revenue terrific execution throughout the enterprise.
Net working capital stilland our definition of inventory and receivables less payables and accruals is like 6% of less; so just spectacular performance from the field here.
And you can see that trend up from 367 million of operating cash flow in 09 to 500 to 602 and were forecasting continued growth in 2012.
Next slide  we have a really terrific balance sheet.
We close out the year in a very strong position.
You can see cash was up 68 million to 338 million.
Our undrawn revolver is totally undrawn at 750 million; last year we had 520.
We get the benefit of trailing EBITDA coming up at 802; last year it was 638 so when you think about all those kind of investment-grade characteristics and multiply it times EBITDA and you look at the powder we have weve got really a spectacular balance sheet.
Gross debt to capitalization is 25.4 and when you look at the net debt number we have about 1.85 billion in gross debt.
With the 338 in cash youd have net debt of 747 million against 802 million of trailing EBITDA so it goes without saying that 2012 is likely going to be a strongly above-average acquisition year for Roper and were very excited about our prospects in that arena.
Next slide  here well get into the individual segments.
All of them are just faithfully executing the business models that they drive and you can see there is just no softness anywhere inside the full-year activity.
RF technologies sales were up 17% operating profit up 35 and margins up 300 BPs.
Industrial technology was up 21% OP up 29% and margins up 150.
And boy when youre up 150 and you finish at 28.2% OP margin for industrial flow control businesses I cant take my hat off enough to the quality of the people we have and the niches weve chosen to serve.
Medical and scientific imaging sales were up 11% OP was up 14 and margins were up 50; and then energy systems and controls was up 19% with OP up 31 and margins up to 50.
Overall the team produced 13% organic growth.
They feel quite good about going into 2012 and the broad-based margin expansion we enjoyed this year we think will continue next year.
Next slide  so here well look at the smallest segment as a function of the total of 21% is medical and scientific imaging.
They had an unusual fourth quarter just mathematically  well talk about it- but really the story is the medical growth continues with even better prospects at Northern Digital than we originally identified.
Got significant OEM business that we believe is coming online in 2012.
We had organic sales decline in the fourth quarter really caused by two primary events:  we had lower camera sales for an original equipment manufacturing video conferencing series of things that go on with one particular large client and they were in decline this past year and the fourth quarter really brought that to a head; and then our rugged mobile computer shipments which we rarely talk about because its certainly not the key to our medical or scientific imaging business but they enjoyed unusual activity in the fourth quarter last year with their rugged mobile applications into certain overnight shipping arrangements and those really waned this year in the fourth quarter.
We had very strong margin performance in the fourth quarter against an all-time record last year in the fourth quarter so we wound up with 25% OP in the fourth quarter.
For the full year you can see sales were up 11% OP 14 and margin up 50.
As we look to 2012 what we see in the segment is that medical growth we expect to continue.
We have several new product launches that are occurring generally starting in Europe and then coming into North America.
We expect those to provide a lift in the second half of the year.
Well get the benefit of some growth from the Northern Digital acquisition in the first part of the year and then it will turn into organic growth in the second; but we expect a very strong first quarter from Northern Digital.
Weve got significant backlog in the scientific imaging arena that supports modest growth of the year.
Its certainly going to be probably the low point of 2012 organic growth for Roper; but that said given fears around research funding as weve gone through our planning reviews with people people seem reasonably confident and certainly the physical science aspect of this looks better than the molecular and biological aspect does.
But on balance it should be a net gain for us in 2012 and we are confident were going to have margin expansion from growth in the other arenas.
Next slide  we look at the energy systems and controls.
Here you can see just virtually all of the divisions here with the exception of Zetecs nuclear steam-gen activity have had very strong growth across the segment.
They all had record margin performance.
We continue to get our diesel engine shut-off systems that weve talked about frequentlycontinue to grow at a very rapid pace.
We dont see any pullback in that area.
We have had record results really for compressor controls primarily due to the continuing expansion projects around the world; and you can see for the full year our revenue was up 19% OP up 31 and margin up 250.
To have OP in the fourth quarter at 30.5% is really quite substantial performance.
If you look at 2012 we dont really see any headwinds here.
We would expect that this segment ought to grow the fastest of our four segments in 2012.
Its got major drivers none of which are waning in any way with the oil and gas markets remaining favorable.
Compressor Control has a backlog that assures its success for the year.
The bolt-on acquisitions which we havent talked a lot about because theyre small  United Controls done earlier this year  gives us access to very substantial OEMs that we havent been involved with in the past.
Trinity is a software company in the U.K.
thats just coming onboard now.
Its modest revenue but it gives us a lot of technology and its going to allow us to get compressor control even more embedded in software activity.
And then Hao Ying is a Chinese company; its our first Chinese acquisition that we acquired for Dynisco.
Dynisco is enjoying very nice growth.
Probably everyone is aware that tire manufacturing CAPEX is doing well and the things that Hao Ying can do for us in China are similar to what we do in the U.S.
We have a lot of new products coming online and having our own in-house manufacturing capability and distribution channel reach directly in China for the rubber industry is quite useful for us.
Next slide  here if we look at industrial technology fourth quarter was up 20% in sales 25% in OP margins at 29.2%.
Lets not be confused  those are not gross margins of an industrial company those are the operating margins of our flow control businesses.
Fluid handling very rapid growth from new customers expanding oil and gas markets here.
Certainly fracking is driving a significant portion of our growth.
Very important indicator for us  our material test business is headquartered in Denmark along with the Dynisco business I just mentioned were two of three indicators that late in 2008 about the downturn for 09 that were people going to experience and they finished the fourth quarter at a very strong rate  up over 20%.
Dynisco finished very strong as well so we havent seen any sign of any deterioration in forward activity.
Neptune is continuing to grow in the U.S.
despite the concerns that we and others would have had about the municipal market and the fourth quarter was favorable for Neptune and we delivered both growth and execution with these record margins.
Full year you can see sort of similar  20% in the fourth quarter 21 for the year OP up 29 margin up 150 basis points.
For this coming year we really dont see anything thats going to arrest the trend.
The major drivers  we get a big benefit from the Toronto project at Neptune which will roll out more rapidly in 2012 than it did in 11.
We dont see any pullback in any of our flow control businesses and then we have new product and material tests that ought to allow that to continue to grow so we think it will do nicely in the high end of any range weve established for organic growth.
Then we look at the RF technology business and here in the fourth quarter we had sales up 4% OP up 12 and significant margin improvement  up 190 BPs.
The organic was flatter thanit was far better than what it looks here because we had the completion of the France technologGaz de France automated meter reading project which was completed; so from a revenue viewpoint it helped us all year but in the prior year it had been in the bookings so that was sort of an artificial headwind on a comparative basis.
We had very strong toll tag shipments that offset somewhat less project work in tolling in the fourth quarter but we continue to have growth in our software as a service subscription and software maintenance businesses.
We had really a terrific contribution throughout the year from our college campus software and integrated security solutions out of CBORD.
They accounted for a significant portion of our growth in the full year and importantly you can see the full-year sales growth for RF was up 17% OP up 35 and margin up 300.
Were encouraged about margins in general in RF so when we look to 2012 what we see is continued growth in the software and SAS businesses that we have.
We think toll project and maintenance growth will be stronger next year while tag shipments will be lower.
We have this headwind that we have to get through with the Gaz de France project that wont recur although well have ongoing service with it; so that will be a drag into 2012.
But the operating margin expansion that we expect to see by having the software businesses becoming a bigger portion of the segment and the backlog that we have in this segment gives us confidence that well produce both more cash and operating profit in 2012 in RF.
Next slide  here as we get into the 2012 guidance  next slide  the full-year guidance for us is 467 to 487 and the assumptions around that is that organic growth would be up from a 5% at the low end of the range to 8% or more at the high end of the range.
Last year we said 9 to 11 I believe; this year 5 to 8 given all the uncertainty in the world seems like a rational approach to this.
Were assuming currency is the same as it was at January 31 2012.
The tax rate were assuming is going to be about 30%.
Share count creeps up a little bit from 98.5 million diluted shares to 99.5 million.
First quarter wed see coming in between $1.01 and $1.05; and full-year operating cash flow should exceed 650 million in 2012.
Im sure some people worry  we havent commented much about Europe in here.
Its not overly significant for us.
We dont see much difficulty in Europe.
Our businesses there are often exporters to emerging markets so we remain pretty comfortable with whats happening in Europe.
Next slide  if you look at the 2011 summary then we had an all-time performance record for orders and sales net earnings cash flow and EBITDA.
We had terrific margin leverageyou know when we look back on the year one of the things I didnt cover thats worth really talking about in the income statement is if we look at the difference we were upoperating income reached 661 million up from 514 so thats 147 million up in operating income while sales were up by 411 million.
You take that 147 OP and divide it by an incremental 411 in net sales and you get operating profit leverage of 36%.
So our leverage is still world-class and we expect that to continue in 2012.
Operating cash flow at 602 million speaks for itself.
Twenty percent free cash flow to sales  I dont think you can find people doing that and our family of businesses and our end markets are continuing to look quite reasonable for 2012 so we expect to have another record year in 2012 and we certainly are off to a good start.
So with that John I think were open for questions.
Okay.
Good morning.
A couple questions  first Brian can you talk about in your oil and gas-related businesses whether or not a reduction in gas rig counts an increase in oil rig counts  is that good for Roper not good or are you guys indifferent to that?  And then I have one follow-up.
You know Matt were probably indifferent to that although its probably a little bit better for us on the oil side than on the gas side.
We have products that are used on both of those applications and as Roper Pump in particular theyve continued to expand their new products and in fact have worked with our Dynisco business on some polymer technology for one of their power sections which allows that to be utilized in downhole oil applications as well as what theyd been doing previously for gas applications.
So were largely indifferent to that but also remember an awful lot of this is about building the base and expanding into some channels that we hadnt been in before so its not only the growth in the drilling activity overall but also some good channel development that those guys have done.
And then can you sort of what through the same thing specifically talking about Compressor Controls more around kind of the application-specific things that are driving what Brian seemed to describe as a backlog that gives you very good visibility through the year.
Is this mostlyare you seeing good replacement or retrofit activity or is this new capacity?  And can you talk about what youve been doing maybe on the power side of that business as well? Well generally what happens with us is while we do OEM to certain very well-known manufacturers most of our business is aftermarket business so we get a whole lot of several year out from new CAPEX activity where people want to see us deploy better technology for their controls than perhaps they had in the original purchase.
Its just a phenomenon thats not unusual so people who are looking for productivity or more throughput or less consumption of the gas in the pipeline frequently are going to choose us.
That business weve really become quite effective in distribution channels around the world and are sort of growing in China as well so we really haveanybody who wants to have LNG operations that are as efficient as possible in getting the least consumption of gas inside their gas turbines is likely to look to us as a solution provider.
That reputation just continues to build so from an aftermarket perspective the projects that we get a bid onI mean it would be not the least bit unusual for us to have six months of backlog at Compressor Control and known service work thats going to fill things up.
In fact we completely redesigned our Des Moines headquarters last year created a much much more engineering-oriented facility that gives people an opportunity to work in teams in a very different way.
Its certainly among our most exciting businesses weve got just world-class human resources in that business.
Were at the early phases of our growth frankly; and good heavens if we got to exporting gas and LNG it would be phenomenal what will happen to our business in that area.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning gentlemen.
Congrats on the quarter and year.
Hey good morning Mark.
Let me talk about the medical  obviously theres some weakness in the whole segment but you had some tough comps.
But what degree is that attributable to some product introductions?  You mentioned you have some new products rolling out in the back half so does that keep people on the sidelines a little bit?  And what gives you a No no.
These are not substitution products at all.
These are entirely new products but weve had an ongoing ramp-up on certain kinds of positioning devices for MRI technology weve got new products in Verathon around GlideScope.
We have this Heartscape product that weve launched in Europe that we havent brought into the U.S.
at all yet.
We have a product called AortaScan that is a phenomenal product.
All these things are just ramping up  in fact we have an international sales meeting starting Sunday night with the Verathon people for three days to try to gear it up.
We had a similar situation last week with our CIVCO people around growth opportunities outside the U.S.
so were quite comfortable with that.
And really anythis organic stuff in Q4 has really not affected medical much in any way.
Medical is still performing very well.
We expect it will continue to do that.
This is really much more about a business that we have stuck inside scientific and imaging because it just doesnt fit anywhere and that business had a really strong Q4 last year which is quite unusual and it had its more normalized weak results in the fourth quarter of this year.
So thatsrugged mobile has for a long time been not a typical Roper business in terms of performance but weve got a lot of energy in that business and people are hopeful for a much brighter 2012.
Okay thanks.
And then moving to industrial tech I mean it actually accelerated growth versus the third quarter on a year-over-year basis.
I assume a lot of that is due in large part to the fluid handling the material test.
And then looking in material test how much of that is automotive driven  excuse the pun  and what do you see going into 12? Well I mean the derived demand for that business is really anyone who is utilizing or looking to understand their material contents better; and so as one can imagine that does include one who is making steel or aluminum or other types of really hard surface materials.
So there is obviously some impact from automotive production and for the supply chain even though we dont really sell very much to any of the automotive companies or even the Tier 1 automotive suppliers directly.
We have some sales there but thats not the primary end market.
But clearly the fact that automotive production has come back in 2011 and is expected to grow again in 2012 I think is adding some benefit for our material test business.
And is it safe to say that the non-Neptune businesses probably outperformed Neptune in the quarter? No I dont think thats fair.
I dont think thats Probably on a quarter-to-quarter maybe year-to-year.
On an annual basis the answer is yes.
For the quarter itself I mean Neptune continued to do very well; and remember we are ramping up with the Toronto project which did give us some additional revenue in the fourth quarter and that will continue into 2012 and 13 and 14.
Okay thank you.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
For the orders this quarter its rare that wed see a book-to-bill below 1; and Brian as I recall any time this has happened  it really hasnt happened for like 10 quarters  you bring out these historical references about any time youre below 1.
You can seeyou get some one-off comments but then look at the trend that comes back.
We didnt hear that this time.
You gave a little bit of the comp issue but just put this in perspective about the order activity bid activity some of the leading indicators; because this is a little bit of an anomaly to see you below 1.
Yeah well not below 1 Deane.
I think what weve said is from 0.97 to 1.03 is kind of a band that we would have and routinelyoh I dont know what percentage a very high percentage of the time were between 0.97 and 1.03.
But we had some unusual situations in Q4 last year  the large Mexico City project that we revealed to people in industrial in fourth quarter from an order perspective and then obviously wouldnt repeat in the fourth quarter this year.
So that alone explains most of the book-to-bill in industrial.
And then RF is a lumpy situation  book-to-bill in RF was weak at like 0.9 or something like that.
Were not really worried about that.
We have huge backlog in RF and the non-toll project activity is quite robust going into 2012 so its not much of a factor.
If we had a poor book-to-bill in the first quarter then wed be talking more about that; but we wouldnt have established organic guidance at 5 8% or more if we were really worried about the book-to-bill.
But its a fair thing to point out because normally we would expect it to not be worse than 0.97.
This time it was 0.94; but there were these three unusual events with cameras and rugged mobile and Mexico that arent really core to the overall nature of activity.
So the rest of it was much more in our wheelhouse.
Okay.
And for my follow-up we pay attention to how you craft the expectations regarding M&amp;A in a strongly above-average year both in terms of fire power within the balance sheet.
But take us through what youre seeing in the pipeline pricing and in particular if opportunities to add on medical  theres big leverage to be able to drop in a new medical line into an existing sales force.
My question there is are you restricted at all as to what type of medical products that need to be complementary to some of your existing surgical products or can you go into some newer areas on the medical side?  Thank you.
Well we have kind of three different sales forces that are available to us so at the low end you have the overnight delivery people with consumables and telephony-driven responses with hospitals around the world and thatwere extremely competent in that area with the right call centers right SKU sorting almost a mini-distributor function.
Then we have the technical cell around radiation oncology which is a unique specific trait calling on a very small niche in the hospital and has to really be joined at the hip with major OEM manufacturers that are involved in that equipment.
And then we have the third sales force which is the Verathon sales force which is more generic; but theyre selling products that are in the thousands of dollars not the hundreds of thousands of dollars not really CAPEX for the most part.
Those people have very specific people they call on.
Its organized into an acute care activity and a private practice activity.
Its easy for them to add things in those two areas.
Increasingly were investing outside the U.S.
in channel presence and thats doing really well.
So it is certainly possible that we can do a bolt-on acquisition and take advantage of our existing sales force in that area; but we look at a lot of things in medical and Id have to say a number of the things that we look at are in software in medical and we find those to be exceptionally exciting.
And just in terms of expectations how close do you think you are to making some announcements on the M&amp;A side? Well you never know.
You justyou never know.
I mean were sitting here with a lot of capacity which is matched by a lot of patience.
So our goal is to buy things at the right price at the right time and have the right people in place to monitor them.
One of the things we did last year which was very important strategically is add two new very senior resources.
We brought Neil Hunn in to focus on medical activity.
Neils an M&amp;A pro former CFO of a publicly-traded company running a revenue business in medical just a world-class guy.
But we wanted to marry him up with a world-class software guy.
We brought Joe Bergera in who has worked for Wolters Kluwer and Sage for his career.
Joes a domain expert around architecture platforms and software and trying to get our software to leaders more capable doing more bolt-ons and activities.
So we have dramatically enhanced our internal capability to assimilate both software and medical companies which we really needed to do.
I think the rest of us here in Sarasota were only interested in doing transactions that brought world-class management teams and didnt take too much more of our time so now that weve really beefed up our capability in this area we have a lot more firepower intellectually than we did in the past.
Fortunately that matches our balance sheet.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Id like to just continue that last topic.
You mentioned software as being an area of focus and on acquisitions; and historically Roper has acquired companies that were often converting from old analog technology to new digital technology and that involved a lot of new software-driven equipment so that the software really was an integral part of the equipment business that you were in.
That started with CCC which by the way I was happy to hear that you think youre still in the early phases of growth with CCC given that you acquired it almost 20 years ago.
In September of 1992 it was 17 million in sales so at this point after 20 years its pretty impressive to be in the early phases of growth.
But its software-driven mainly veryequipment is only a small part of it.
So going forward are you really going to go into standalone software or are you going to just continue to acquire equipment businesses that have a high component of software?  Could you clarify that? Well no it will be both.
If there was sort of one core in Roper that unifies the enterprise it would be algorithms.
Every one of our businesses almost is dependent on some kind of algorithmic technology and feedback mechanism for people for data and so thats almost always the core of something.
But our recent acquisitions many of them have been pure software plays.
Certainly iTrade and CBORD and Horizon back in 04 or freight matching which was a core portion of what we wanted to acquire when we did the TransCore transaction and of course its now split off into a separate company.
We acquired another company called Getloaded pure software.
They have a link up in Canada pure software.
Certainly a lot of the acquisitions that were moving through the pipeline now are software-driven things.
You know I think every once in a while well look at an equipment business but for the most part the software businesses or the digitization of analog businesses as you pointed out are more attractive in terms of a shareholder return on a cash-on-cash basis.
Our-- Oh absolutely.
Butgo ahead.
--just spectacular the last several years.
But still yourthis is software for Roper equipment not software for somebody elses equipment.
No thats true.
Were notits not like Rockwell Automation or something no.
Were not doing software for other peoples products.
When were saying software were doing software for other people who manage the cash in their channel; so if you look at what CBORD does its software thats managing campus activity and monetizing activity and showing people what the flow looks like.
When youre looking at Horizon its pure software no products providing cash register support mechanisms and telling people about the supply chain.
When you look at freight matching its pure software subscription model where thousands and thousands of people are looking every minute about available freight movement.
When you look at iTrade youre looking at people sorting through supply chains so that vendors can sell to supermarkets.
We like networks as such and we continue to look at software companies that provide niche networks to people.
Okay thank you.
Second question is this  EPS last year for the year as a whole was up 29.9% and that was well above your average rate; and of course you also had some headwinds like higher tax rate and so on.
But guidance for this year is only 9.9% less than 10% above 2011.
Actually its a little bit higher than the consensus which was looking for a 9.5% increase so its not a big surprise.
But one of the reasons could be that you didnt make very many big acquisitions last year so you have to depend more on the organic growth this year; but also are there any big headwinds that yourecould you just go over the things that made last year above average and might be responsible for making this year below average in terms of EPS growth?  Because I think investors are kind of looking for a continuation of the long-term trend which is about 20%.
Well yeah you know the long-term trend certainly includes acquisitions; our guidance doesnt so its that simple.
So if youre looking at But youre going to make very many Right so you dont have them rolling in so much into 2012.
The last three years weve done about 1 billion 1.25 in acquisitions and weve generated cash of about 1.4 billion.
So weve reinvested our cash at about a 75% clip into acquisitions and the next three years  good heavens were giving one-year guidance at 650 so obviously wed expect well over $2 billion in cash in the next three years so that its easy to see how that will carry.
When that does youll get a lot more revenue so the overall revenue will be going up.
So in any one year you cant look at a step change; you have to look at what it is over time.
We dont see any disruption in any long-term trends around Roper.
I think were going to just continue to have compound growth thats favorable just it doesnt look like organic growth on an acquisition until a year later.
Right.
Yeah what were some of the things though that last year might have in addition to not having acquisitions to roll in this year but might have made last year a tough comparison with this year? Well you had record performance last year.
Youre looking at lousy GDP around the world.
Youre looking at people who are terrified about a whole variety of end markets.
Our organic growth in the fourth quarter I think is best in class.
Our projection around organic growth for 2012 I havent seen anybody projecting 8% or more; so if we were simply at the high end of our organic growth and we captured the kind of leverage we expect to capture we have more like 13% diluted earnings per share year-over-year variance Alex and thats without acquisitions.
So I dont think were going through the year without acquisitions.
So if you said can you get several points out of earnings related to acquisitions the answer is yes.
So yeah I dont think itsto go back over all those things that were favorable we kind ofwere doing that in the slides.
If you look at our statements going into 12 we arent really describing any deterioration.
All youre doing is having a slower rate of organic growth based on an abysmal global GDP forecast and fears people have in Europe so were hoping not to participate in those negatives.
Yeah thank you.
If you average the two years its right in line with your historic.
Okay thanks very much.
Youre welcome.
Thanks.
Morning gentlemen.
Good morning Terry.
Wondering if we might be able to just help us with some color on where your organic expectations for the segments are relative to the 5 to 8% for the year.
It kind of sounded from your comments like perhaps energy and industrial may be above the high end of the range or at the high end of the range and maybe RF and medical at or below the low end of the range.
But maybe you can put a finer point on that color.
Hey I think were still expecting double-digit growth out of energy and industrial in terms of organic growth in 2012 and then the bottom end of the range on medical and imaging and only modest growth out of RF because of the tolling activity which is a big piece of that with other stuff growing.
Weve got a few things that affect us there in RF because we have that headwind around the Gaz de France project so you take out 30 million or whatever it is out of that its a big chunk that you have to beat up.
And so we actuallyif you were adjusting for that wed have growth even there.
Soand its our first guess out of the box right that 5 to 8.
So clearly the industrial and energy segment will drive but particularly energy is going to drive outperformance in 2012.
Okay and Brian maybe how are you thinking about the first quarter or cadence through the year?  Do you start stronger and end up a little slower towards the end of the range or do you think its even through the year or how do you feel about that? I dont know Terry.
Its hard to say.
I mean were expecting maybe 6 to 8% organic growth inside our guidance for the quarter with $1.01 $1.05 with really strong leverage.
Whether it could be better than that its hard to say.
I think we were impressed as we went through our year-end reviews with people that if you didnt have all the headline news and you didnt have the political environment and the conversations that are going on our people would be probably be forecasting better results because theyre seeing really excellent results.
Theyre not seeing a big fall-off in anything but it tends to make everybody conservative.
Okay.
And then I know theres a lot of noise as you mentioned in the 4Q orders; but Im just wondering if you were to try to strip out the noise can you give us a sense for how the order trends were through the quarter  in other words did you end up stronger than you started or was it a strong start and a weak finish? Hm no I dont thinkI wouldnt say month-to-month was a big difference.
I think the thing that we would have liked to have seen a little more year-end buying than we got in the fourth quarter thats just residual MRO activity  people have money left in their budgets  and particularly in energy its not at all unusual for us to get disproportionate mid-Q4 orders for instruments because its just something people can do when they dont want to lose their budget.
I think their activity throughout the year was so strong that they didnt have that leftover money and so we didnt see that dynamic that we frequently see.
But I dont think it has anything to do with Q1 demand or 2012 demand.
I think its just that it was so strong all year long that people didnt wait to buy things.
Okay.
And then just lastly one more on medical  Brian I guess Im just trying to discern is there any element of the revenue miss in the quarterat least I perceived it missed your expectations a bit - maybe you could calibrate that - that was just related to timing; in other words it slipped by a couple of weeks or something like and thats part of what gives you the confidence on the Q1 despite the little bit softer order trends in the year-end.
Well in the segment in medical and imaging we have our very high end optics and imaging business that had a record year that didnt ship everything in Q4 that we would like to have seen for a variety of reasons that I think we expected to have a banner 2012.
But it was more the unusual comp situation where we had basically laboratory camera technology that was going into Asia that was a one-off thing that couldnt be repeated and then just frankly without mentioning the company the video conferencing business for that enterprise went down dramatically.
Theyve talked about it in their own company and it pulled down us which makes for an easy comp for 2012 for us frankly.
Okay thanks very much.
Thanks.
Brian Im impressedit sounds likeI think I heard you have a sales meeting during the Super Bowl Sunday night.
You know I have a feeling that when that was scheduled that they perhaps missed the significance of the day Chris.
And the amazing thing is its not in Indianapolis.
Its actually in the northeast so it will be quite interesting.
Yeah someone will bring a transistor.
So you called out the scientific imaging as maybe the low point of organic growth for Roper along with another number of companies but doing particularly well.
But just looking for some color maybe you put too fine a point on that.
Just wondering maybe about TransCore and Neptune ex-Toronto how those trends are? Well certainly Neptune ex-Toronto is better than we expected and maybe John wants to provide a little color on that.
Sure.
I think its the rugged mobile thing which is certainly not a core asset that really had the very difficult comp measurement.
But why dont you talk about that? Yeah as far as some of the other units you were asking about there Chris Neptune continued to do extremely well during the year and theyll get continued benefit out of Toronto; but even excluding Toronto they were up kind of in the mid-single digits in 2011 in the U.S.
which I dont think most people looking at the municipal market would have expected something like that.
So I think Neptune did a very nice job there and then of course with the high degree of recurring revenue that comes out of our TransCore toll and traffic business that is a business that will naturally kind of be in the mid-single digits also and thats kind of what it did in 2011.
And then variation that we see in that business is largely due to the timing of tag shipments based upon when customers are going to replenish their inventory.
Theyve done a nice job outside the U.S.
our toll and traffic business has with the expansion of electronic tolling opportunities in Puerto Rico and continuing with the largest tolling project in the world in Dubai.
So we have a nice global footprint there and a large installed base that gives us a lot of visibility and good recurring revenue.
Okay.
My question was a little more forward-looking than the answer but I appreciate the great color.
Is that kind of a trend youd expect to continue and justit sounds like Neptune probably just continues to execute on market share domestically.
Yeah I think thats right; and also of course Toronto ramps up in 2012.
And far as the toll and traffic business I mean as Brian said to the extent that were at the 5 to 8% for the enterprise wed expect that to be at the lower side but with good margin performance.
Okay thank you.
Yeah just my two questions here  in the energy systems and controls business just curious  were there any missed shipments in that segment in the fourth quarter?  I would have thought maybe revenue should have been a higher given the bookings number through nine months in 11.
No I dont believe so.
Okay so that kind of met revenue expectations? Uh-huh.
And then also in industrial tech a little bit curious  I would think you had a good quarter out of TorontoNeptune Toronto.
I was just curious  is it mix that maybe pulled the gross margin in a little bit year-over-year?  What accounted for that? You are exactly correct.
Okay so thats primarily Toronto then? And you will notice of course that even though the gross margin may be a little bit lower in the segment the operating margin continues to expand.
I did notice that yes.
And then lastly one thing on theif we could just double back to iTrade for a second in RF Tech you made some investments in Europe there and made some investments in the forward growth expectations.
How does that play out in 12  are you seeing some visibility on the payback on those growth investments in iTrade? Absolutely.
I think that we have one large turnkey operation thats going more slowly than wed like and more customer-driven so wed like to see the pace of that pick up where more people are required to go online there.
But theres notits kind of their pace.
Theres not much we can do about that.
But were certainly looking forward to an even better 2012 in iTrade than we had in 2011.
Okay okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We look forward to talking to you after the end of our first quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  The Roper Industries First Quarter 2012 Financial Results conference call will now begin.
Todays call will be recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jake and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our first quarter 2012.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Paul Soni Vice President and Controller.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for todays call.
Weve prepared slides to accompany todays call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at <a href="http://www.roperind.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.roperind.com</u></a>.
Now if you turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of todays call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to todays call in the context of all that information.
Now if youll please turn to Slide 3 Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thanks John.
Today well kind of go through the first quarter enterprise financial results and then well get into the specific segment detail and the outlook for each of the four segments for the second quarter and balance of the year.
Well update you on our established guidance for the second quarter and our full-year guidance and then take your questions.
So next slide please?  The first quarter here was another spectacular quarter.
We achieved all-time records for revenue orders net earnings EBITDA operating and free cash flow in the quarter.
Total sales were up 10% and importantly organic revenue was up 8%.
Our book-to-bill ratio was above 1 at a strong 1.03.
Gross margins reached 55% which is really quite remarkable and our operating margin leverage was spectacular in the quarter.
Operating margins were up 200 basis points to 24% and our incremental operating margins were 43% in the first quarter.
We closed out the quarter with 205 million in EBITDA and an EBITDA margin of 28.9%.
The diluted earnings per share were up 20% to $1.09.
More importantly the free cash flow was up 69% to 131 million in the quarter.
It is an all-time record first quarter for us and a great start for 2012.
Next slide?  Our first quarter income statement you can see here that the revenue was up 10% 8 organic and book-to-bill at 1.03.
Gross profit up another 70 basis points to 55%.
Operating income was up 20%.
Tax rate was a little bit higher than the first quarter of a year ago  40 basis points higher which cost us a penny.
Still net earnings were up 22% and you can see the DEPS line at 1.09.
Next slide?  We had terrific EBITDA growth in the quarter and if you just continue to look at our trend you can see on this chart our trailing 12-months EBITDA now is $830 million up from 685 last year on a trailing 12-month basis and 519 million on a trailing basis at the end of Q1 2010.
So weve added 60% to our EBITDA in just the last two years and our EBITDA margins on a trailing basis are up 400 basis points from 25% in 2010 to 29% in 2012.
People from time to time investors ask when are you going to have that deterioration in margin?  Our plan would be never.
Were just going to continue to move up that line because of the culture and focus we have here.
Next slide?  Q1 cash flow you can see another blowout kind of a quarter here.
Our cash conversion was very strong.
We had 141 million in operating cash flow which was $0.20 of every dollar of revenue.
The conversion on that 131% of net earnings.
We invested about 10 million in capital in the quarter which was 1.4% of revenue right within our kind of 1.2 to 1.6% of revenue plans.
So free cash flow was 131 million 18% of revenue and the conversion at 121.
A remarkable performance against last years first quarter where we had 78 million of free cash flow last year in the first quarter and 131 million this year in the quarter.
Next slide?  Our asset velocity continues to improve.
I know people keep saying it cant be done it wont get better; but it does get better.
If you look at the same period inventory is now down to 7.5% receivables actually dropped down to 14.5% payables and accruals at 14.9 so our inventory plus receivables less payables and accruals closed out at 7.1%.
If you look at the trend in 2009 it was 9.6 finally breaking below 10 and people would ask us if you could get any better and the answer is oh yeah  you can get better.
Two hundred and fifty basis points improvement over that three-year period closing out at 7.1% - very exceptional performance.
Next slide?  Balance sheet is pretty strong here.
Cash  if we look at a year ago we had 261 million in cash and we closed out this quarter with 452 million of cash.
We had drawn a little bit against our revolver which had 750 million of capacity this time a year ago.
Now our undrawn revolver is just that  we dont have anything drawn against it so you take that cash and the undrawn revolver and you get a little over 1.2 billion.
Our trailing 12-months EBITDA is now up to 830 million quite a substantial increase over the trailing EBITDA at this point in 2011 so it of course has a very dramatic positive effect on all of our credit stats.
Our gross debt is less than it was a year ago and our shareholder equity has increased by $450 million in the year from 2.882 billion to 3.332 billion which then brings down the gross debt to cap number from 30% to 24.4 and gives us a gross debt to EBITDA line at 1.3.
You can kind of do the math on the net debt to EBITDA line and youll come up with quite a remarkable number.
Segment details here on the next slide  really all of the segments had extraordinary performance.
They all had double digit growth in operating profit.
Next slide  well start with the RF segment.
Revenue was up 2% but operating profit was up 12%.
Operating margin was 24.6% for RF up 220 basis points and they finished the quarter with a gross margin of 52%.
They had very strong leverage in higher margin areas obviously when revenue is up 2 but OP is up 12%.
We certainly had a headwind on that revenue line because the Gaz de France project which was in 2011 was substantial in Q1 and quite substantial in Q2 was completed last year so we dont have anything other than administrative revenue associated with that now which makes comps for RF a little bit difficult the first couple quarters of this year.
We continued to have expansion in both the security and cashless payment systems that we have for higher education.
That drove substantial growth in the software platform and then our SAS-based solution networks have added subscribers both in our freight systems area and in our food service areas and our European expansion continued.
Our toll and traffic service business was led by electronic tolling conversion were doing in Puerto Rico that adds to our growth and offsets the sort of weakness in other areas around transportation.
For the rest of 2012 we have fighting us particularly in Q2 the Gaz de France project which is completed.
That takes some revenue away makes for a difficult comp.
Our pole project activity in last years second quarter was a record in the last three years and quite disproportionate to the rest of the year so thats a difficult comp.
That said well still perform better because of the strength of the rest of the businesses in the RF segment.
We expect to have continued growth in software and SAS network businesses particularly in the campus area and the growth of subscribers in our networks.
Next slide?  Industrial technology  here you can see revenue was up double digits at 15%.
Operating profit was up 25% and our OP margins really are spectacular at 29.5% OP.
Compare that to most peoples gross margins  its really quite a remarkable achievement  29.5% OP up 230 basis points.
Our gross margins in this segment were 51%.
In the quarter fluid handling was very strong once again as we continue to gain share in the oil and gas industry with the shale activity thats going on.
We have a variety of new products that are going into our agricultural applications around irrigation and those are doing very well; and then weve had some pumping activity we do in the transport and industrial arena which was quite strong in the quarter as well.
The Toronto water meter project is kind of moving ahead as planned which gave us some growth in the first quarter and then the U.S.
municipal market in Q1 was relatively strong for Neptune.
We had significant increase in our material analysis equipment and consumables business in Denmark as industrial production around the world continues to expand.
That business continues to have double digit growth.
And the margins in the quarter as I said really were remarkable.
Its an all-time record OP margin for us which is coming from capturing the leverage off of the growth.
For the remainder of the year in 2012 the segment backlog is quite strong and that supports continued growth even if orders were to moderate.
The industrial and shale end market remain quite favorable to us and these outstanding margins that we captured in the first quarter we believe that the things weve done to get better margins are sustainable and will continue throughout 2012 at these higher levels.
Next slide?  The medical and scientific imaging segment here youve got revenue growth again double digit at 12% OP growth at 24% operating margin up 250 basis points to 26.6%.
We were benefited by having Northern Digital in the first quarter which delivered exactly what we expected out of them on the revenue side and even better margins.
Weve had a very very strong first quarter with Gatan in the electron microscopy arena.
Those end markets are pretty good and weve recently introduced some products there in the last 15 months which are continuing to grow and add to Gatans strength.
Our medical expansion internationally continued in the quarter gave us some growth as well.
And then this margin performance that weve gotten from the operating leverage here in medical really was terrific and it offset what otherwise would have been a tough first quarter because North American research funding has been quite soft and the life science area around our photonics camera businesses was weak.
For the second quarter well have some continuing weakness around those North American research markets.
We dont see that picking up but it may get better than it was in the first quarter.
We expect to continue to grow the medical business.
Were experiencing an increase in consumables as we think were gaining share and the end markets are favorable in each of the product categories that we participate.
Northern Digital in the second half of the year will become organic for us and that will help our organic growth profile.
And Gatans backlog which is quite heavy and wed like to see shipments improve in Q2 but they certainly are going to improve strongly in the second half of the year.
It gives us confidence for the full year as a whole.
Gross margins I guess I could say were a modest 65% in medical and imaging in the quarter.
Next slide?  Energy systems and controls up  whoops!  Same old story isnt it?  Revenue up 15% operating profit up 23% OP margins 24%.
You know energy systems Q1 OP margins are usually the worst of the year but these are pretty good at 24% but will improve Ive been assured.
In the first quarter our compressor controls business continued to grow nicely with projects in both LNG and upstream activities.
The oil and gas markets continue to be very favorable to us in our diesel engine safety shutoff systems and in the valves that we provide both to oil and gas and marine.
Very good instrument sales for the petrochem and refining markets and we acquired a small but important company called Cambridge Viscosity which gets us online Internet capacity around measuring data.
Ill ask John to talk a little bit about this small acquisition.
Sure.
We recently completed the Cambridge acquisition just within the last month of the quarter so it didnt contribute an awful lot.
You can see it on the cash flow statement kind of the range that we paid there.
But what this really provides is viscosity measurement for fluids both in the oil area but also in the petrochemical so it adds additional technology to our existing set of businesses there.
And so Cambridge will be able to kind of come into an existing sales channel but also provides additional online work so outside of the laboratory into the process.
So its a nice fit both for us as well as for Cambridge and additional technology and theyll be able to benefit from our expanded reach and well be able to benefit from their technology.
So I think thats going to be a nice acquisition for us that will start to contribute in the second quarter and beyond.
Okay thank you.
Were going to have for the rest of the year double-digit growth we believe in energy.
Weve got record backlog at the moment.
We have continuing strength in incoming orders and weve got favorable industrial end markets for our one business that kind of fits to the industrial area our Dynisco business.
We expect that that should continue to be okay throughout the year.
Weve got great operating leverage in the remainder of the year and the execution and focus of everybody in this business is quite strong.
Next slide?  This will be our introduction into our 2012 guidance.
Ill talk a little bit about the quarter and then the full year and of course weve raised our guidance.
Next slide?  For the full year weve raised the guidance to 4.75 which is an $0.08 increase on the bottom end and to 4.91 which is an increase on the high end as well.
And in the second quarter well have some headwinds and a little bit of confusing data.
Last year we reported as you can see on this slide a $1.03 excluding a $0.05 re-measurement gain for foreign currency that we had and thats the way we treated that throughout the year on a GAAP basis.
In some reporting services youll see $1.08 which includes the $0.05 re-measurement gain but our baseline is $1.03.
The second quarter last year was extraordinary compared to the rest of the year and so it was $1.03 and the second quarter in 2010 was $0.74.
So our guidance for the second quarter of this year is $1.11 to $1.15.
At the midpoint of that its still double-digit growth over last year.
We do have some comparative headwinds around the Gaz de France contract which was large last year that we had this North American research softness and we have some toll shipment timing things that occurred last year.
It was the best quarter for the TransCore business in three years in the second quarter last year.
On a full-year basis of course a modest growth trend and that we expect will continue this year but we wont have the outsized second quarter.
That said we still look for quite strong results in the second quarter and much stronger results for the second half and the full year.
Weve raised our operating cash flow projection.
We had said it could be 650 million.
Were now saying it ought to be between that and 675 million for the full year.
Next slide?  So if we recap here before we go to Q&amp;A the first quarter produced all-time records for revenue orders net earnings EBITDA operating and free cash flow spectacular gross margin at 55% very strong cash conversion around the operating cash flow and the free cash flow with free cash flow being up 69%.
Our book-to-bill strongly above 1 at 1.03 terrific operating leverage which just speaks to the quality of our different operating teams around the world and weve raised the guidance as we go into the balance of the year.
We certainly expect to have record performance for 2012 as a whole and I think with that John we can open it up to questions.
Okay.
All right Jake were ready for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
The comments on shale activity  so weve seen a big ramp-up in all the fracking opportunities and youve participated both in the industrial side on the pumps and on the compressor controllers but youre seeing some investment move away from that given low nat gas prices.
Is that embedded in your guidance and maybe you can just give us some real-time color as to what youre seeing in that segment.
Sure.
Now of course in our real time color were not really on the leading edge of exploration activity.
Were more along in how they go about on the production side once theyve ramped up there.
So real time information I think you may be able to get better color on that from someone else.
Now our activity there is both on the natural gas side as well as on the oil side so what we have been seeing at least over the last quarter or so is some of those rigs start to move and really ramp up more on the oil side and less on the gas side as you were talking about.
We still see very solid activity.
Of course as we have more pumps that are deployed well see more after-market revenue associated with that as well.
And then the LNG and the other investments in order to make sure that the transport and processing of the gas particularly as well as on the oil side but mostly on the gas side those investments are continuing and those are in our backlog in one of our businesses in particular.
So embedded in our expectation for the rest of the year I wouldnt say is a ramp-up of activity; its kind of steady state about what were seeing today and thats our expectation based upon the backlog and the quote activity out of our businesses.
Great.
And then the follow-up question over on the RF side theres been some speculation that TransCores number one U.S.
competitor could be for sale.
Theyre in a number of interesting markets and customer relationships and so forth.
Would you be boxed out from an anti-trust reason to be able toif that asset were available or the other side might it be competitively at a disadvantage if it fell into a stronger competitor? Are you suggesting that theyre a weak competitor?  It would be safe to say that there are two large players in this space around hardware applications  one of those is a European company the other is ourselves.
There are a number of players in the back office administrative space and the company youre talking about which is a publicly-traded company has a very very modest position in back office activity as part of that.
So we wouldnt view that as being anti-competitive in any way.
Im not quite sure I understood the answer.
Would there be a reason that it would make sense to be paired with TransCore? Well as the strongest player in toll and traffic world I think its always a beneficial thing for someone to want to join with TransCore.
But in our future we feel very comfortable with the set of technologies and services that were providing to that marketplace.
Were happy with our position but if something else happens there then well see what that looks like.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Brian you were talking about industrial tech and the very strong margin improvement there.
Correct me if Im wrong but 1Q is typically the weakest from a volume and margin standpoint and it looks like its been the highest ever.
So did mix play into that to some degree?  Can you flesh that out what drove the margins and then can you even take it to 30 exiting 2012? Well itd be a great goal.
When we think about weak Q1 we really only think about the energy systems business.
I wouldnt think normally about industrial necessarily being weak.
There is some times based on weather that Neptune might not be very good because youve got winter and so forth but that wasnt the case this year.
But I dontseasonal Q4 for them is difficult just because of the time of the year it is.
I think as long as we get revenue growth were going to continue to have favorable leverage  its as simple as that.
We expect to have continued revenue growth so we would expect to maintain or enhance our leverage.
Okay but it wasnt a really strong mix component in there this quarter that No no there wasnt.
There wasnt any unusual activity.
I will sayI mean certainly the pump businesses as they grow throw off a lot of cash and very favorable incremental returns so thats something that has grown a lot more in the last year or two than historically its grown.
So that supports better results in the quarter.
Okay helpful.
And then can you break down your second half versus one half expectations and maybe what youre thinking organic growth consolidated for 2012 at least a bounded range? Yeah I think we could take a swipe at that.
Second half organic growth should be better in our view.
Our guidance at the beginning of the year was 5 to 8 and we had 8 in the first quarter.
We would expect less than that in the second quarter and that or more in the third and fourth quarters.
So wed still stay generally with this kind of up to 8% organic growth for the full year and at the low end of that range in Q2 and at the high end of that range in Q3 and Q4.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning gents.
Just a couple questions  Brian thinking about the strength in the secular growth that has materialized in these energy and pump-related businesses they maybe havent been a huge source of M&amp;A although you did a deal in that space this quarter.
But has your view about the long-term attractiveness of those businesses changed for the better?  Might you be more active there over time? Yeah I wouldnt rule it out Jeff; but the reality is when we look at most of the businesses in that space are trading at relatively high valuations versus their intrinsic long-term value and they have a lot of assets and were still pretty wedded to the concept of being asset-light.
So I think we would prefer to buy intellectual property that we could deploy into those businesses using their existing assets.
I think to find something that we could buywe have looked at a couple of things but in terms of how we think they should be valued on a cash flow basis I think some people are overpaying for those flow control assets at the moment.
As you know we rarely would I dont believe ever overpay for anything.
And maybe on that the bias not to overpay seems to keep the M&amp;A activity at a relatively low level.
Whats going on out there in terms of valuations and pipeline and attractiveness of assets? You know I think there is so much going on that its a classic case of you dont want to do something thats good when the best thing is around the corner.
So in a good-better-best situation with the strength of our balance sheet we have were looking for the best thing.
We think we have a couple of best things identified and were doing a lot of work and were very excited about what will happen over the next months.
So we shouldnt rule out something meaningful in 2012 it sounds like.
I wouldnt rule it out.
And then just one final one and then Ill pass it on  Gatan is there an issue there with them not being able to deliver relative to backlog a production issue or something?  Whats going on there?  You kind of called it out A production issue.
They always have very sophisticated sensor technology we have to buy and its oftentimes only produced periodically.
The orders have been pretty good and they do have some occasional bottlenecks in Gatan and theyre forecasting kind of treading water in Q2.
Wed suggest it would be better if they swam so I think they understand our view of that.
But thats kind of where that is.
We dont see anything but upside in Gatan for the full year but they had a really remarkable first quarter and so they didnt pace themselves at all.
I think they have to kind of gear up here again for Q2 and maybe theyre being a little conservative for those of you in Pleasanton who are listening.
Great.
Thanks Brian.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I want to find out what the assumptions are behind your guidance.
Youve raised your guidance.
Im not sure I heard the exact reason for that.
But what are you assuming about the economy about Europe about Asia and whatnot in the guidance because my thinking is if youre doing this well in a weak recovery what are you going to do when the recovery accelerates? Well well do better.
Right but what if it happens?  Whats behind your guidance right now?  Youre assuming continued weakness in the economy? Certainly what we would seeweve had strength everywhere except for Europe and Europe was positive but it was only up a couple of percent versus everything else being up double digits and Canada and Asia being up over 20%.
We do just see some areas that are going to be weak.
This North American research funding scenario puts a real brake on our photonics businesses in a negative way so that kind of pares back revenue some from what wed like to have.
On the other hand margins in those businesses are not as high and their cash generation capability is a little less good so they dont hurt us overall.
For the year we expect to do sort of okay.
Were going with a 30% tax rate for the year as a whole.
I think if we wind up with 8% organic growth on the year I think if its not best in class Id be surprised.
So we think thats pretty good.
Now if things picked up and became better then obviously as the year went on wed look at higher numbers.
Okay so youve got a conservative forecast here.
Yeah and the other thing Youre not looking for much improvement in the economy.
And Alex the other thing I would say about that is remember were a collection of many different niche markets and the things that may be a little bit weaker that you may be referring to around housing or something like that we dont really have any exposure to speak of to new construction activity or automobile production or some of those areas that are more broadly aligned with kind of the more cyclical aspects of GDP.
So as we look at our individual niche markets we see a number of them that I wouldnt characterize as weak today and that we expect them to continue to perform well.
Okay thank you.
Morning.
A couple questions on the medical and life sciences area  Brian can you talk about where youre at with some of the new products or the new product pipeline with Verathon?  A couple of the other divisions I think that youd talked about in the last quarter as having maybeor last quarter two as maybe having some pretty meaningful launches slated for this year.
Well in Verathon we have a product called Heartscape which is an important product for us and its launched in Europe.
Its not launched in the U.S.; we still are going through regulatory issues with that to get it launched.
I think whenever it launches it should be a very good product.
We dont have it in for much of our guidance for the balance of this year.
Its more likely to be something that could help in 2013 from the U.S.
perspective but sales have started in Europe and in fact our leader of Verathon is on a plane as we speak right now going over to have some meetings over there with people on the subject.
So I think thats pretty good.
We have some CIVCO and MEDtech products that are launching in the second half and some things that theyve been working on that we kind of know are going to beneficial in second half of the year.
And then Northern Digital were doing several things in Northern Digital to broaden their range of activity which we expect to pay dividends in the second half.
And then as a follow-up you mentioned in terms of the headwinds youre encountering in the second quarter  the Gaz de France the toll shipments being maybe unusually high last year.
Are you able to ballpark or quantify if you will the hole in revenue that you guys are kind of comping against?  Is that a $5 million headwind a $15 million headwind?  Can you frame that up a little bit for us? Id say 10 million or more.
Yeah Id say a little north of 10.
And then are you able to quantify as well in imaging what the impact is with regards to the downward pressure in NIH and other public funding sources?  Or maybe how much of your business there do you feel is driven by public funding? Well we want to just kind of clarify in terms of that.
When we say were down Id say its a little over 10 million for just the tolling and the Gaz de France which both happened to be in the RF segment and it could be even a little higher than that on a comparable business.
Right.
But imaging is a different thing and of course in a different segment.
The problem with imaging is that Gatan will probably outperform enough to make up for that camera softness but the camera softness from the funding both in Japan and the U.S.
probably a double-digit negative on their baseline.
So thats likely to be a drag in each of the second and third quarters and that would be in the mid-millions.
Thanks a lot Brian.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Brian I wonder if you could help us a little bit with the Aussie LNG outlook for compressor controls.
How big is that business for compressor controls today and what kind of growth do you see over the next three or five years given the CAPEX trajectory that everyone is looking at there? Johns opening up his book.
Is he smiling while hes doing that?  Yeah hes smiling.
I think hes smiling.
Thats a little granular there.
Well I justthe reason I ask obviously its not a huge business for you but its one of the bigger ones ex-the top couple.
But the CAPEX numbers there are huge and if youre thinking longer term on growth for that segment youve talked about double-digit for this year so theres a confidence and a visibility there.
Im just wondering if we can think about continuing to see double-digit growth for 13 14 given what youre seeing on the shale gas infrastructure build-out but also the Aussie LNG piece.
Absolutely we would expect double-digit growth  no question about that.
I mean weve built a great organization there.
Weve put as much talent in there as any place in the company and its got a very much broader leadership team and capability team.
We have terrific people throughout that organization and weve made some acquisitions there.
You know we acquired Trinity we acquired United Controls in addition to the investments in the structure weve put in.
I mean they are absolutely going to do double-digit growth and weve completely refurbished the headquarters operation at Des Moines which for those people who have ever been there its unbelievable.
It really does look like a technology business now and double-digit growth will be easy for them to obtain.
I dont know if John wants to tell us whats in his book there but does it get big enough and is that growth rate big enough to really give you some confidence that energy systems in total can be double-digit 13 and beyond?  13 and beyond I mean I wouldnt say that we have a view on 13 and beyond yet.
I think most of our commentary is really about 12 and its true the backlog and the growth that we have seen out of energy so far in this region has clearly been above the average for the segment in total.
Brian talked a little bit about the fact that we were up 22%--20% north in Asia and as well as in Canada but also in the rest of world category which includes Australia as well as a few others  thats also north of 20% for us.
And weve seen at least four energy systems and controls just north of 20% and thats largely driven by the investments that are happening.
And now its still off of a relatively small base so I dont want to overplay this but it does add to our backlog and add to the LNG position that we have where I think that were largely seen as the best control systems provider for any type of LNG plant anywhere around the world.
So the fact that they are making strong investments there at the Gorgon site as well as at others is going to continue to benefit us we think.
Okay.
And then maybe just a little bit more color on the slower growth in Europe  I think you said up a couple percent.
Just trying to recall your profile there  I guess I thought you were overweight Europe relative to company average in energy and medical so I might take the comments on funding to mean that medical was a drag and maybe even negative in Europe.
One would assume energy is still running strong there.
But if you just profile Europe exposures for us more broadly and just identify which businesses are really driving that slowdown.
Well we actually grew in Europe; just we didnt grow at the same rate as other places.
So its not a matter of not growing its just in Europe we grew at 2% and in the quarter every other geography was double-digit growth.
So we had 10% growth in the U.S.
and 22% in Canada and Asia and 13% in the rest of the world.
It was just Europe up 2.
So the growth remains fine and Europe represents less than 20% of Roper  its in the sort of 15 to 18 category so its not a major drag.
Energy was up double digits but medical was very close to that.
It was really the change in Europe was purely from the Gaz de France contract that we had.
It was unique and was just something that occurred and it was down sharply.
If you hadnt had that adjustment you would have had close to double-digit growth everywhere.
So that wasyou know it took some points off of our growth profile.
Okay thats helpful.
And then lastly Brian the industrial markets within your pump business are you seeing any signs of slowdown there or do you think the growth rates can continue where youve identified them here which I think was up single digits? Yeah they were probably a little better than that.
We certainly arent seen any fall-off in those at all.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks good morning.
If you mentioned imaging organic growth I didnt catch it; but could you elaborate on that and if that outlook is a little better for the entire segment than you had earlier? I dont know; I thought we were pretty clear when we went through that.
Yeah medical and imaging were up 4% organically in the quarter.
Okay.
And then a broad one on industrial tech and energy  its been alluded to but youre establishing some pretty tough comps and a nice track record there cyclical going your way and everything.
So thinking about the longer term comps and what you can do from here Im wondering as you look at new products OEM and channel expansion work that you do are those opportunities that remain fundamentally part of the long-term outlook for industrial tech and energy systems to continue to kind of recreate your organic growth profile there? Our industrial businesses really are not OEM for the most part.
Our industrial businesses are our product solutions for direct customers.
In the energy arena we do some OEM activity but even there its not super high.
But our engine shutoff valves for instance somebody could argue thats an OEM product going into most everybodys diesel engine.
Fortunately we dont look at it that way; we look at it as a solution that the customer really requires and the engine manufacturer has to buy.
And I do think Chris that youre right  weve definitely benefited from the investments that we have made and continue to make in new product development and channel development for those.
I mean youve seen that out of our fluid handling businesses with expansion of channel activity particularly in wastewater and agriculture areas rental market expansion new product applications in oil and gas for our fluid handling as well as in our energy systems businesses.
And we continue to focus on those areas where customers are really going to benefit from the technologies that we can provide and the application knowledge that we have.
I dont see that as being something thatour businesses will continue to reinvent themselves but I dont really think of it as reinventing.
Its just a question of expanding their solution set and becoming even more important to how customers are able to be successful.
Thats what theyve done this year and I expect them to do that next year just as theyve done over the previous decades.
Thanks.
Its very helpful.
Yes good morning.
Brian in the RF technology segment in general as we move through calendar 12 is theshould the expectation be that theres more you know service and admin revenue less hardware hence this margin profile can actually work from here higher even though our sales mix and maybe sales level wont be as great in terms of growth? I think if I understood you right  let me sort of test that  that the service revenue is lower than the hardware revenue in terms of margins so if hardware is diminished at the expense of services it would hurt the margins.
What youre seeing and the reason the margins continue to grow is that our software businesses which are in RF are expanding and they carry much higher margins both at the gross and operating level and the cash flow levels.
So those are going to continue to push out the mix of the tolling and service processing portions of RF at a fairly rapid pace.
Okay so the CBORD the freight matching ITrade  those businesses are up nicely versusyou know thats where the mix is coming from rather than a hardware service mix.
Right.
Yeah particularly on the margin side thats for sure.
Okay understood.
And then within industrial tech the Neptune business were kind of feeling in the marketplace there that seasonality and weather played a more substantial role this quarter.
Are you comfortable that the municipal market is in fact starting to recover or is this almost an anomaly based on weather and the seasonal pattern that we would typically see in the water metering market? I dont know.
Weve read some comments from others and we wonder.
I think that the weather had to help Q1 for people.
We certainly dont see a robust municipal market for anybody and we dont see speedy decisions occurring in municipal markets.
We have a huge installed base and so that continues unabated; but theres no question if municipal houses were in a little better shape or you had any new residential construction wed have a growth spurt.
Okay.
And John just quick question on Toronto  is it still reasonable to assume that we can do about 40 million or bill out 40 million on Toronto this year? Yeah thats our prediction.
Yes?  Okay.
Great thank you much.
Great quarter.
Okay thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again in July as we complete our second quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Roper Industries Second Quarter 2012 Financial Earnings Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our second quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; Jason Conley Head of Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for todays call.
We prepared slides to accompany todays call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you turn to slide two we begin with our updated Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of todays call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to the risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
You should listen to todays call in the context of that information.
Now if you please turn to slide three Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
And after his prepared remarks well take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Well good morning everybody.
Today well go through the enterprise financial results for the quarter talk a little bit about specific segment detail on the outlook for each of the segments give you an overview of the Sunquest acquisition and then established our third quarter and full year guidance and take your questions.
I think we had indicated in our first quarter call that we expected going into the second quarter would be our most difficult challenge for the year.
We had really an outstanding quarter compared to what we expected because we had quite a few headwinds this quarter.
Ive certainly had the uncertain economy and were able to blow through that.
We had very difficult comps going into Q2 because of the Gaz de France.
Revenue last year and outsized performance in toll tag shipments last year in our Gatan technology business that we knew wouldnt be repeated.
And then of course we had currency which became a bigger surprise and we expect it cost us about a $0.01 a share versus our guidance and about $0.02 a share versus the prior year.
That said lets look at what we did in Q2 next slide.
We had record results in the second quarter pretty well across the board the highest level of orders in our history highest level of sales in our history in the second quarter biggest backlog that weve entered the second quarter with record net earnings and record EBITDA performance for the quarter.
Our orders were up 8% and revenue was up 4% despite those headwinds and the effect of currency.
Our book-to-bill ratio was actually quite high at 1.05%.
Our gross margins reached 54.9% in the quarter and our operating margin was really quite spectacular it came up 130 basis points to 24.7%.
If you look at the incremental OP and the incremental sales our operating leverage in the quarter was 59%.
And there is no smoke and mirrors in that its just 59%.
Our EBITDA was up $214 million  sorry was $214 million and our EBITDA margin reached 29.5%.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was $119 million slightly lower than we would expect in the second quarter but we had a higher cash tax rate and that would happen again in the rest of the year.
Our first half operating cash flow was $261 million and well project what we believe will be for the full year later this morning.
Our diluted earnings per share were $1.15 versus a $1.03 last year that $1.15 would have been $0.01 higher based on our guidance if it werent for the currency scenario and the $1.03 is the number that we use with the re-measurement gain last year you might remember was about $0.05 a share so on GAAP it would have been $1.08 but was really adjusted at $1.03.
Net earnings were up 13%.
Were very happy with the performance because we had about a $30 million headwind between our scientific camera business and Gaz de France and some European activity coming into the quarter and we were able to really blow through that very solid revenue throughout the world with the exception in Europe which was down about 18%.
Record performance really in an uncertain economic environment.
Next slide in the Q2 income statement youll see orders over $763 million up 7% organically.
Revenue book-to-bill came in at 1.05% gross profit was up 100 basis points to 54.9% from 53.9% a year ago and our operating income was an amazing 24.7% up 130 basis points for a year ago.
Our interest expense about flat tax rate was consistent with the guidance we established for the quarter came in at 29.6%.
And net earnings were $115 million versus $102 last year up 13%.
Next slide if we look at our EBITDA performance our trailing 12 months EBITDA has now reached $845 million its up from last years trailing number this time at $739 million and two years ago $540 million.
So EBITDA is up 57% over the last two years and our EBITDA margins continued to soar we were 25.2% in 2010 and 29.3% on the trailing 12 months calculation now and of course this quarter at 29.5%.
Next if we look here at the cash flow performance youll see Q2 cash flow at $119 million of operating cash flow and $109 million of free cash flow very good performance again in working capital.
Our inventory actually improved by 30 basis points from 7.5% to 7.2% of revenue and our accounts receivable improved by 50 basis points from 15.6% to 15.1%.
And when you adjust that for payables and accruals we were still below 7%.
In the first half cash flow normally our first half cash flow is about 40% of the full year.
This year itll  second half will be even a little stronger because of the acquisition of Sunquest and how cash accretive it really is.
So you can see that our full year operating cash flow weve now raised our guidance to be about $700 million for the full year thatll clear operating cash flow at a very high percentage of revenue it could reach 23% of revenue in fact.
Its really driven by expanded margins.
Its driven by the Sunquest acquisition that we expect to close in the last four months of the year.
And some cash tax benefits that were acquiring in the Sunquest transaction.
It does exclude the deal cost and refinancing charges associated with the new credit facility weve put in place effective this past Friday.
And you can see here that free cash flow operating cash flow goes up to $700 million.
Our estimate this year up from $602 million last year and $500 million the year before so that would be 40% increase in cash flow over the last two years.
Next slide on Friday we closed a new credit facility of $1.5 billion revolver.
So if you look at our normal credit stats here a year ago on June 30 2011 you can see that we had $196 million in cash and $595 million in un-drawn revolver which gave us acquisition powder and investment powder of about $791 million.
When we closed out the quarter on June 30 our cash had increased to $519 million on our un-drawn revolver was at its capacity at $750 million giving us $1.269 billion.
As of Friday with the new $1.5 billion revolver and the cash from the end of the quarter we now have capacity in excess of $2 billion.
Our gross debt on the other hand is only $1.69 billion.
Our gross debt-to-capitalization is at 23.8 but if you look at the net debt-to-EBITDA you will see its actually been cut in half a year ago was 1.4 and at the end of the quarter it was 0.7.
Even with the financing of the Sunquest acquisition at $1.4 billion well have ample capacity to pursue other opportunities in the near term and now the pipeline remains very very exciting.
If we look next slide here at the Sunquest details  sorry the segment details well start with the RF technology slide next.
So on RF technology really very very outstanding orders in the quarter they were up 18%.
So those orders and the execution really in the toll and traffic business kind of got us up to the high-end of our range despite the European pressures and help us deliver.
You can see the OP margin was amazing at 27% up 290 basis points and if you want to look at leverage revenue was down 2% and operating profit was up 10%.
So that would speak strongly to the execution thats occurring in those businesses.
The software businesses continue to help us on the margin expansion as they grow.
We got a very significant win again in Houston.
We are going to upgrade the entire lane hardware in the Houston area with our United Toll Systems technology which is really an advancement over what was in place in the past.
We think that contract order produced about $65 million in revenue between maintenance and the change out.
Our CBORD cashless system business continued to grow.
It had a record quarter in the second quarter for anytime and that involved both university and food management wins in both higher education and healthcare.
And we had of course this difficult headwind for our technology business Gaz de France which had that sort of a one-time large install last year and that held us back by about $5 million in the quarter.
In the second half well have the continued difficult comp with the Gaz de France because it went throughout the year or last year.
But our increased toll project and maintenance activity that will be led by this  these Texas wins will easily offset any challenges we have in the rest of those types of activities in the segment.
And then the software businesses and software-as-a-service activity is continuing to increase and both iTrade and freight matching continue to roll along with the sort of nominal organic growth but outstanding cash growth.
Next slide if we look at the Industrial Technology segment here just again spectacular performance there.
Revenue was up 11%.
The operating profit margins reached 30.4% thats an all-time record for the segment.
The highest previous we ever had was a 29.2% in the fourth quarter of last year this 30.4% to just add some perspective around how amazing it is the S&amp;P 500 Industrials gross margins as a group were 30.8%.
Ropers operating profit for Industrial is 30.4%.
So we got an all-time record here in OP margin  again leverage off the growth terrific execution everywhere.
Food handling continues to grow in both agricultural food and the shale activity.
Our general industrial markets have performed well.
We are not seeing any early indicators of any softness on any of those businesses.
The material test business which is primarily a European business actually had a record second quarter very strong North America and Asia sales offset any weakness that we had in Europe.
The Neptune business continued to grow driven by the Toronto project and some higher shipments in the U.S.
In the second half of the year we would expect that the shale activity growth would moderate not stall but certainly moderate with gas activity on shale being down but the oil activity on shale being up.
The industrial end-markets again no signs of any fall off.
The outstanding margins we expect to continue throughout the second half of the year and just a personal note to all our people in Industrial we just couldnt be more proud of these teams as we watch them execute in a very tough market.
Next slide we look at our Energy Systems and Controls business here you can see revenue was up 6% OP up 7% margin at 26% was up 200 basis points from the first quarter margin in energy.
Organic growth in the quarter was 5%.
Compressor controls continues to do very well on LNG projects and the field service activity that we do drove double-digit growth for them.
The bolt-on acquisitions that we did in the last are very small United Control Group Trinity and Cambridge.
All have non-cash amortization charges in them.
They are actually putting a little bit of a drag on the OP margins even though at 26% its hard to see a drag but they actually would have been about 120 basis points higher on OP without a lot of amortization drag and integration on those three businesses.
That said they are performing well they are all on plan from an integration view point they will add the growth in the second half of the year.
Our European markets weakened in fact in the energy they were down about 18% but our U.S.
was up by about 18%.
So they  U.S.
business being larger that was a benefit and the rest of the world was quite strong in the Middle East and Asia Australia Brazil not quite as strong.
Our targeted cost actions are underway for the second half on a very selected basis for people who are executing some contingency plans in those things that relate to any softness that they see.
We think Europe continued to be soft but well have continued growth in both North America and Middle East and Asia to offset that.
With the exception of our Petrochem business which was down about 20% and thats a worldwide shortfall.
Were not seeing any strength anywhere in that business.
Very solid backlog though compressor controls gives us confidence of that growth in the second half and then we would expect normal very strong Q4 seasonal activity in energy would be repeated this year.
Next slide so here well look at Medical and Scientific Imaging.
This is one of those things where it looks like nothing happened but there is great variability throughout the different businesses here and while revenue was flat and operating margin was up 20 bps.
What really was going on is the Europe and the North American academic resource funding softness impacted our camera portion of the Photonics business as cameras are not a big part of Roper but they do come in around $125 million to $140 million worth of total revenue.
And they were down as much as 20% in some cases.
And we dont see any real turnaround as it relates to those research markets for the camera technology businesses.
And while we perform relatively well there is certainly a drag on the short-term growth.
Our medical businesses continued to grow organically.
The channel expansion weve been able to provide them in Asia is offsetting any weakness that they have in Europe.
And the Northern Digital business performed very well expanding its offerings to OEM customers.
And also we were able to do a Bolt-on acquisition in the quarter called Ascension Technology Corporation which is in upstate Vermont.
And Ascension does 3D tracking for minimally invasive surgery which you probably all know is a rapidly growing aspect in surgical applications.
We paid about $18 million for Ascension we expected to deliver $3 million plus in EBITDA over the next 12 months.
In the second half we expect to have continued weakness in this academic research area which will affect our Photonics businesses.
Fortunately the medical expansion is going to continue our markets remain pretty favorable.
Ascension will give us a little bit of gross work for Northern Digital.
The Gatan business has a substantial backlog which we expect to be able to shift during the second half of the year which will add to our growth.
And then we have this transformational Sunquest acquisition which will add substantial amount of revenue and EBITDA to our medical platform.
We would expect it will add somewhere in the neighborhood of $75 million of revenue in the last four months of the year.
Its going to add well over 35% to the Medical and Scientific segment for the next year in revenue.
Its going to add quite a substantial amount to the Ropers overall revenue base for 2013.
Next slide so as we look at the Sunquest acquisition Ill talk a bit about the transaction and John will talk a little more in depth about the specific business.
Next slide so if we look at the Sunquest acquisition you can see that it meets all of our acquisition criteria its really an amazing fit where we are able to take our software platforms inside RF and the medical platforms inside Medical and Scientific imaging and hook them up in a very creative way with the Sunquest business which is truly a software business but its also a medical business.
If you look at our criteria we talk about all the time asset like low CapEx absolutely its almost no CapEx and exceptionally light asset business.
Focusing on the market structures and driving forces at work weve done probably more marketplace diligence on this business because we actually looked at it in 2010 and have maintained 100% of business forever and really felt that based on the work that we have done and things that we thought they could and should be looking at and then seeing how theyve done.
Our diligence revealed a lot of strategic competitive advantages that Sunquest enjoys and they have a lot of wide space opportunities for growth that are beyond their core traditional business.
Theyve done a great job in transforming their business that was acquired by Vista in 2007 and certainly was high margin business but could be better and to the Sunquest leadership teams efforts they have done an incredible job in making that a transformational business that we are acquiring now compared to what it was in 2007.
The incentives as always are linked to the commitments that their leadership teams made and those are in place.
It has technology advantages that are clear and easily measured against competition and has very deep application expertise.
It really is a niche business in the lab market.
Management continuity as always is valued and everybody on that team has agreed to stay in place.
The communication for the Sunquest employees is taking place this morning in Tucson.
Weve asked them as always to preserve whats made them a very good company in core values but stimulate progress.
In this area the progress is going to come in the form of even more investment in the sales and marketing arena and some faster execution in the development area.
This is a business that when we talk about growing what you buy my goodness this business has higher margins than been we do.
It has twice the EBITDA margins that Roper enjoys.
And when you look at those kind of margins and you recognize the incredible strength of the company it has two-thirds of its revenue comes on a recurring basis.
98% of its customers sign up annually for the software programs that it has.
It has negative working capital and very low CapEx and we expect in 2013 that it will generate $140 million or more EBITDA for us.
The fourth quarter run-rate which we just completed their fiscal company May 31st and just had their audit and signed up prior to our closing actually supports our expectations for 13  2013 nicely.
Its really a business when John talks about if you want to kind of think about well what do they do and where are they located and why did they win because it is a phenomenal management team and outstanding group of employees that have really done things in the space that no one can really replicate.
So with that well turn into next slide and John Humphrey.
Sure.
Thanks Brian.
So Ill just talk a little bit more about kind of what Sunquest is and what its able to provide for its customers.
Those are the global market leaders for providing the underlying software and information solution for laboratories and hospitals and large academic medical centers with a headquarter in Tucson Arizona locations both in the UK and a development center in Bangalore.
They have a global footprint that allows them to serve that customer base really their customer base are those folks who  for whom the effectiveness and efficiency of the lab is of critical importance.
The lab ends up with in many cases hundreds of thousands of tests being done each month to support the diagnostic decisions that are made in a hospital.
And they rely upon the Sunquest information and the quality and safety associated with that to help drive those decisions.
The comprehensive solutions is about improving the productivity with workflow automation tools you see on the right hand side both the Sunquest laboratory 7.0 and the CoPath solution.
Both of those are about workflow automation to make sure that the right test is done on the right patient at the right time leading to the right diagnosis.
So those things also reach beyond just the lab and also go out to the collection manager which is one of the modules that Sunquest has.
So that nurse has a point of collection tool that integrates back with the lab so you have full connectivity between both of those parts of the hospital.
The very large customer base very high retention rates over 98% retention each year continue to utilize and depend upon the software set of solutions and fully supported by a 30-year history.
And these are very long-term relationships relationships that are supported by the decades of application expertise.
The Sunquest has developed about what the hospital lab needs and their unique set of needs that Sunquest is going to be able to meet.
And as Brian talked about it is a proven team its a great culture everything that weve learned during the diligence process continues to support the fact that their culture of excellence of execution is really phenomenal and I think theyre going to be a great addition to the team.
And I think the company is very well-positioned to capture the growth opportunities that theyve identified over the coming years.
So with that Ill turn it back to Brian to talk a little bit about guidance and summary for the quarter.
Okay.
So after we get that title sheet on guidance well move to the guidance slide.
Weve raised our full-year guidance to $4.84 to $5 that reflects about a $0.04 reduction due to currency.
We had started out at $4.75 to $4.91 you might remember.
$0.04 comes off the bottom here $0.0471 or $0.05 off the top here for 86 and were adding back $0.12 to $0.14 on a GAAP accretion for Sunquest excluding any of the deal cost.
And then in addition of course weve got other things that were absorbing and other things that are good.
So $4.84 to $5 on full-year guidance the quarter comes in at $1.19 to $1.25 in the third quarter.
Most importantly really is that we now expect our full-year operating cash flow to be approximately $700 million.
And just a couple of footnotes youll notice there the acquisition of Sunquest we expect to close at the end of August will have the HSR filing and since there is no competitive issues it should move along quickly.
We have some deferred revenue thats unusual in Sunquest similar to some other businesses when you acquire them there are some GAAP issues around that.
And so well have to kind of reveal that huge quarter as we report out.
And this does exclude whatever cost we will have that will be registered in the third quarter that would be related to the acquisition and removal of the remaining amortization and the old revolver.
Next slide so looking at the summary of the second quarter we go back to the top point being that its again an all-time record for any second quarter in our history highest level of orders revenue backlog net earnings and EBITDA.
Organic order growth at 7% was really a pleasant benefit for the quarter the operating margins at 24.7% the EBITDA 29.5% and gross margins at 54.9% really terrific.
Leverage is kind of breathtaking at 59%.
We used to talk about 30% to 35% of leverage and its hard to see how our leverage isnt going to be above 40% for a long time.
Doing a new revolver big help $1.5 billion as the older revolver was put in place in July of 2008 and would have the deal replaced in July of 2013.
So this removes any refinancing risk around that for next year.
It gives us twice as much capacity to write checks against as we had previously and $1.5 billion is pretty sizable revolver for Roper.
That was completed last Friday a timely completion we might add relative to the deal closing on Saturday.
Sunquest just an exceptional financial profile higher gross margins than we have twice the EBITDA margins.
Terrific that you couldnt find a business thats sort of marry what were doing in software and what were doing in Medical that would benefit both so much as Sunquest.
Its got a great development people.
Our software people spent last week in Bangalore visiting and talking with people.
Weve done tremendous diligence around the robustness of the software platforms in place for Sunquest and how they can be used.
All of this then creates an opportunity for us to be positioned again in 2012 for an all-time record year.
$700 million in operating cash flow and perhaps most importantly that a transformation process that were doing here continues as we get more and more technology.
You think about where we are now weve continued this.
Weve more technology content we have higher margins higher cash returns more recurring revenue and its just a much different company than what youd looked at 2002.
And in the next five years we added Neptune and TransCore.
And then if you look at 2007 and you look at the forward five years here till 2012 youve picked up Seaboard and Horizon and I-Trade and Technolog and now Sunquest.
So the technology content gets better margins get better cash return gets better and available forward acquisition power for growth will be better than it ever has been in the past.
And with that I think were ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now go to our question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Well go first to Matt Summerville KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Matt.
I just wanted to clarify something Brian on Sunquest a $0.12 to $0.14 is that a GAAP number that well have under GAAP rules the deferred revenue adjustments I just want to make sure I have that right? That is a  Matt this is John.
Thats a non-GAAP number.
So as you are probably aware like an awful lot of software companies Sunquest has deferred revenue for the annual maintenance.
They get paid in advance for that.
Sure.
And the accounting rules upon acquisition will require us to take a write-down of that.
So to basically move that deferred revenue to fair value and then over the next 12 months as those renewals happen that deferred revenue will get built back up.
So the $0.12 to $0.14 is a non-GAAP number.
And as we are able to estimate exactly what that deferred revenue fair value adjustment is then well be able to provide that for you.
We will be able to do that until after we closed the business but well be providing that insight each quarter.
So you are able to reconcile between the GAAP numbers and then the non-GAAP numbers that we think provide better visibility in understanding the operations of the company.
Perfect.
The great news though is the cash is the cash.
Absolutely.
Brian could you maybe spend a minute talking about just more broadly for Ropers you moved through Q2 how would you characterize the overall demand environment for your businesses and then how are orders so far in July from what youve seen? I think really the quarter from our organic  we wouldnt have given ourselves so much of a shot that had been 7% organic.
Orders in the quarter that was a pleasant surprise but we got really strong activity that we knew wed eventually come in the year wouldnt have necessarily seen in the quarter so that helped.
I think we entered the quarter with more concern and turned out to be justified.
So those any like early indicators of things that would make us nervous that would be in energy or industrial we really havent seen that.
There is just a little bit of activity mostly in petrochem and oil and gas that we are going to do some very modest internal retrenchment all in but on balance its pretty good.
We never really talk about a quarter in which were in but I would say things remain pretty decent.
Were going to expect organic growth that actually kind of picked up in the second quarter and we would expect it to continue to be mid-single digits really for the rest of the year.
So its really kind of better than we expect because there is more European headwinds than we would have originally forecast.
How much was your European business down in the quarter? It was down 18% for us in total about a half of that is just due to currency though so maybe 8% or 9% on an organic basis.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
One thing to remember on that Matt is that does include the headwind associated with Gaz de France so thats got $5 million but even once you take that out we saw a decline in Europe that was definitely mid-single digits.
Got it.
Thanks John.
Sure.
Well go next to Mark Douglass Longbow Research.
Hello.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Mark.
So on the Sunquest Brian you talked about there is a lot of wide space you talk about what that would look like I mean is it market share shift is it just under-penetrated as far as the clinics and hospitals or is it geographies? Well I think we dont want to tip off other people to things that we think are available to us but it would be safe to say that we think that they can continue to grow share at the expense of other people.
We think people have been paying a lot of attention to electronic health records and companies that are in the EHR space.
Here again we picked out a niche that we think is unrelated to that activity.
And this niche has got an opportunity very high return for people investing in this in the hospital space and in the clinic space and in private care space.
Basically the lab work is critical to every aspects of people diagnosing folks and it happens at a variety of different places.
We think we have the pre-eminent technology to do that.
And we think we can make people more productive and more efficient in what they do when they do it.
It has been hard I think the last couple of years to get the attention hospitals that have had these mandates to do a variety of thing around health records now they get a chance to make an investment and things like this business that will give them an actual return.
So we think its got pretty exciting growth.
And these guys they brought in a new sales executive women in who we have great confidence in that we think its going to drive better focus on organic growth its been a very high cash contributor.
And its same old situation private equity has done in this case of a really amazing job with this business versus what they acquired in 07 but it can grow one and it has  it does have opportunities for share gain and expansion around the world.
I mean this business it doesn't do much in certain portions as the world and we do a lot in other portions of the world that they do.
Its also got an incredible development team in Bangalore and that's very very bullish for us.
Okay and then want to give too much away on them I suppose what are this for the industries at least typically growth rates what kind of returns are you assuming as you model it out over the next three to five years? For a Sunquest kind of thing? Yes.
Oh I think it ought to  it will grow its cash and EBITDA double-digits.
Revenue just kind of year forward revenue is probably go to work by 10%.
We would think over time that it grows revenue remember its got this massive recurring business right.
So in fact new business wont look like a high number.
So if you have got couple of hundred million of constant business it could grow its net new business by 20% and it wouldnt look like a big number on the core business right.
So its not like looking at a cyclical company thats up and down and looking at various trends.
This is just as it starts with its Q4 and then each quarter it gets better all the time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well go next to Deane Dray Citi Research.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey good morning.
Brian Id be interested in hearing what the lessons youve learnt from iTrade and how that played into both the negotiation for Sunquest but also integration managing a software company and so forth? We have a big advantage today versus when we first took on iTrade in that we have recently hired a Chief Architect for our technology businesses.
He is working in our software arena.
We also have a software executive full time thats looking over a various software companies.
And we have a medical executive which we didnt have before looking over the medial scenarios.
So between the two new executives someone thats a domain expert in medical and one thats a domain expert in software and the architectural person the quality of our diligence that were able to do on our own was a dramatic improvement.
We have a much deeper understanding about source code and the ways in which development programs need to be done and measured.
And weve got a deeper understanding about cost structures around development activity.
And all those things were good.
I think weve also come to recognize that slightly lower organic growth rates in the software businesses really arent a problem because of the recurring revenue that they have inside them and the quality of the cash that they generate.
I mean to look at a company I think most people would look at us and say this is best-of-breed EBITDA margins and yet here were acquiring one that has twice the margins that we enjoy.
So they were fundamentally different and our executive leadership capability around them is better than ever.
And just to clarify on the deferred revenues you said that it refers to the maintenance side of it is that two years its pretty typical that youre seeing three years of maintenance fees and are any of the licensing fees included in that deferred revenues or just maintenance? So the short answer is nothing on the license fees and the maintenance contracts and the differed revenue are two slightly different things.
So the maintenance agreements range anywhere from one-year three-year five-year some of them even seven-year agreements because of course the customer would like to make sure that they have kind of the long-term commitment with Sunquest.
And Sunquest might have in the long-term contracts so but they dont pay for all seven years or all five years upfront.
So its a one-year payment and thats what goes into the differed revenue so we would expect to see that differed revenue build backup after the fair value adjustment after 12 months to be back to the normal steady state.
Great just last one from me on the $25 million in cash tax benefits well whats the duration of that asset will it be used up first year or are you restricted in how much you can draw down.
We will be utilizing that in 2012.
Great thank you and congratulations.
Alright.
We will go next to Terry Darling Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Terry.
Good morning Terry.
And congratulations on Sunquest.
Thank you.
So couple of follow-ups there in terms of thinking about accretion for 2013 any reason not to on a non-GAAP basis as you are presenting it here $0.13 for four months 10% plus revenue growth profile anything outside the scope of that as we annualize those numbers that we ought to be aware off.
Notably so.
Just to remember on the growth profile that you want to be careful on the revenue growth profile you are going to have that massive baseline so its just the net new that grows right.
So we will have a double-digit organic growth on the non-recurring revenue side and we will have double-digit EBITDA growth.
Okay that is helpful.
And then the interest rate on the new revolver John do you have that.
Yeah we do.
Its basically the same as what we have now on a drawn basis the jump was 125 the facility fee is 15 basis points so the un-drawn portion is 15 bps.
Okay.
And then in terms of the changes in the outlook for 2012 on the base business Brian you had called out that there were some minuses offset by some pluses and all that kind of rounded to where you were before.
But Im wondering if you can just kind of go through the list here on both the plus and the minus side you have been very clear on the energy piece with the petrochem and oil and gas component.
The RF margins look a little stronger perhaps thats a plus up the industrial margins perhaps thats a plus up the RF Europe.
On the technology side you call that as a negative am I missing any of the other pieces within that context.
I would say that its probably only one you might have missed is that the camera business is specifically that are serving the academic research markets probably a little bit worse than even what we had handicapped three months ago.
So seeing them down kind of in the high-teens in the second quarter and frankly not a lot of encouraging signs in there in the market as we look forward to the third quarter probably a little bit of incremental headwind.
But once again offset by some of the pluses that we have seen in RF and some of the better margin performance.
Okay.
And then in terms of the second half for organic growth in the mid single-digits you are much tougher comp obviously in the third quarter than the fourth quarter.
Do you expect mid singles for both quarters or would that comp profile suggest a little tougher 3Q.
Probably similar throughout the second half.
Okay great.
And then just lastly can you help us with what iTrade organic was in the quarter presumably with the Europe comment that might have been down.
But can you just clarify on that for us.
No iTrade was up organically in the quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Well go next to Christopher Glynn Oppenheimer.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
On the RF order they were pretty striking I think you called up some new strength in toll and traffic I dont know if that was mainly related to Houston.
But any signs you are entering sort of a new era of growth for that business and brought interest on the road conversion.
Well you are happy to find new era.
So its the one big area thats alive and well for those activities.
There are a lot of initiatives.
There are a number of things thatll come out for bid.
I think the longer we go with people learning more and more about our United Toll Systems technology the more and more people recognize that it is dramatically superior to what other people have done for a long period of time including ourselves.
So the lead time for getting agencies to understand and see and test and kick tires around that is kind of long.
But in terms of long-term growth vehicle nobodys got a better mouse trap than us and I dont think anybody is going to get one.
So we like the long-term nature of the business and we certainly like the second quarter and we think the rest of the year will be fine.
And just to put a little more color on that Chris for instance the win in Harris County is not a conversion from a non-tolled to a tolled lane or a new road is being constructed.
Its really an upgrade of the technology and so its a technology insertion and maintenance for the equipment thats already on those roads.
So its really just building out our maintenance and support capabilities with the team that we have rather than net new if you will.
Understood and then on Neptune wondering if youre starting to see an impact on new resi and how you think about the opportunity for residential recovery on the Neptune business if you could contextualize that a little bit? Well if that happens itll be great.
I mean getting 700 000 housing starts is better than 400 000.
Its not as good against getting a million for.
So were hopeful and I wouldnt say much if anything is baked into our guidance around stronger housing start thing.
But if it happens that will definitely  we would think that certainly benefit us in 2013.
Great thanks.
Well go next to Richard Eastman Robert W.
Baird.
Yes.
Good morning.
Brian could you just speak for a minute or two about the RF segment EBIT significant jump in the quarter on the growth rate that was slightly negative.
Is that  first of all is that mix or secondly is that and maybe also was that sustainable at that level as we move forward? Its very sustainable here one of the things Richard you might note if you want to get in trouble at Roper you come in from operations and you say well we had a mix variance.
Okay so we know exactly where it came from in every one of the businesses and certainly we have tightened up our execution in the TransCore toll business and have better margins as a result of that activity which has showed out terrific work thats been done really by George McGraw our Amtech business and some work thats been done in IPS business.
That said software tends to grow at a faster cliff than our friends do and the rest of the product measure of RF and as it grows it carries with an extraordinary margins compared to the product businesses.
So again given where we booked backlog if its partly Houston and its been on the tolling side we can expand that business in the second half off of this 27% EBIT margin? I think thats  I wouldnt do that if I were in your shoes Ill put it that way.
I mean we have  Which is up in my shoes so thats not a good assumption.
No I dont believe so.
So I mean clearly IPS has improved their operating performance and their margins.
But we havent changed the underlying economics of the fact that maintenance of toll and road services doesnt carry the same type of margin profile as our software businesses or as hardware photo applications.
So as we continue to do more on the tolling maintenance and service side we will have a  I wont say mix because Brian will kick me but well have a variance associated with the relative growth rates of those businesses.
Okay.
And then on the industrial tech side just given that much of the leverage came at the SG&amp;A line to get the EBIT leverage that you delivered is it fair to assume that Toronto was finally a significant contributor in the quarter? I mean Toronto was a nice contributor in each of the quarters.
Okay.
Was there any cost take-out visible on the SG&amp;A line there? So again in this space you did comment about Europe weakness on the materials analysis side and some other things but I am just again a little bit curious as to where the SG&amp;A leverage came from? Is that take-out or is that? We just  the SG&amp;A it is drive revenue growth.
And so when you are largely selling direct and you got the best technologies than anybody and youve got solid gross margins you get the leverage on incremental revenue.
So we got some incremental revenue we get the leverage.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
Okay.
Well go next to Jeff Sprague Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Jeff.
Hey just a couple things.
Brian it sounded like the pipeline is fairly active despite biting off this nice big chunk here should we expect more before the year end? I dont really know Jeff its possible.
I wish or wouldnt rule against it.
I know what we are willing to do.
You never know what other people are willing to do.
So usually a bit outspread all the time when we are doing work.
This transaction with Sunquest demonstrates kind of how we act right so I mean we started talking to these people in 2010 and weve  Ill tell you sometimes well get people ideas or whatever we wonder about what they are going to do I think these people have done just a spectacular job of taking advantage of some momentum that we thought could be available to them.
And theyve done that.
So we have some transactions that are similar to this that we have been talking to people off and on about for several years.
I think that depending on who owns the asset and what peoples think is going to happen between now and the end of the year around the tax structures going into next year.
You have higher levels of seller activity if they believe nothing is going to change and they dont have capital gains if they are worried about they may hold on.
On the other hand they think that getting a high percentage of something is better than a lower percentage of something else.
We may close the valuation gap I dont know.
So I think its possible that we would do another transaction probably not quite as large as $1.4 billion however.
I would bet not but that brings up another topic.
What are you thinking about on the divestiture side not naming names of course but clearly the portfolio is changing this maybe some pieces out of that are as not as core they used to be.
Its an interesting juncture right I mean your returns are so high anything you divest is dilutive but at the time when you got maybe such accretive acquisition activity going on perhaps there is an opportunity to move the portfolio a little bit differently.
Are you thinking that way at all is there any prospect for something leaving the portfolio in the next 6 12 months? Well our core business is delivering a tremendous amount of cash.
They have gotten dramatically better.
Their cash returns are more than 50% better than they were like five years ago.
They give us tremendous EPS performance because they dont have the non-GAAP amortization charges way against them.
There is certainly an increasing inflection point where you look at this and say what about this situation.
We are in a marvelous place where since we have maintained the autonomy of each one of these businesses.
We can always decouple a business and not have any problem doing that.
Its not like some other strategic thats got everything so embedded that one factory is making five items and one information system cant go with the business.
So all our businesses are total isolated and independent and anyone could be spun-off to another party.
I think people largely have some ideas about which things might become available kind of like the trade deadline right for Tuesday.
So depends who is willing to pay what but we are not an active seller but we have some assets that are probably more valuable to others than they are to us.
And then just one final one for John just on the EBITDA for Sunquest does that $140 million include associated DA that comes with the acquisition accounting or is that the organic number? Well I mean since the EBITDA excludes the effect of amortization I dont think it really impacts that.
Having said that the accretion number for the back half this year the $0.12 to $0.14 that we expect that does include the new amortization that we are estimating that we will absorb and then start to record post acquisition.
So on the EPS side it definitely does include that of course always with the caveat it does not include the impact of the deferred revenue fair value accounting treatment.
Could you just kind of clarify for us how much EBIT is in that $140 million EBITDA number next year? Well here is  we have to finalize.
$35 million.
Amortization so Id say if utilization comes in at $35 million to $40 million to $100 million of Roughly $35 million.
Thank you gentlemen.
Good luck.
And I think well  one more question.
Well go next to Alex Blanton Clear Harbor Asset Management.
Hello.
Yes.
I think youll have to speaker him okay.
Can you hear me? Yes.
First I wanted to ask you about the Industrial Technology business and the Pump business specifically.
Another company recently recorded a substantial decline in orders as Gardner Denver in the petroleum and industrial pump business and that particular business of theirs orders were down 36% in the quarter.
And then in another division they had a pressure pumping order decline of 17%.
And you havent seen anything like that according to what you said do you compete with them or are you taking market share or just what is going on here because the two results are dramatically different? Yeah I think the markets were focused on are totally different for the most part than Gardner Denver I mean we do have de-watering pumps that Cornell makes and those have certainly been used in the shale activity.
Those have had strong growth that growth is moderating but its not totally negative at all.
Thats pretty small part of the overall enterprise and our Roper Pump business continues to grow quite substantially.
So I think  gosh Im not really at all close to Gardner Denver but Im  I think theyre building a lot of stuff that maybe is going into rental and platforms and that stuff.
We have some rental business with Cornell but its not the core component of what we do.
So were still making pumps for waste water activity agriculture or irrigation and those kind of things.
Okay.
Thank you.
And second question is on the orders for RF technology TransCore on July 19 said they were awarded Texas Department of Transportation Statewide Toll System integration and maintenance contract replacing one of your competitors and youve get to replace all of their systems plus add your own to new systems that come on board.
So you didnt mention this I dont believe.
It seems to be a different project than the one you talked about in RF technology.
Could you talk about this new TransCore business that was announced July 19? Sure Alex and you are correct its not the same one.
The Hextra business of the Harris County is the one that we talked about.
What youre referring to is the TxDOT which operates a different set of toll lanes across the State of Texas.
Anyway Ill be providing them with software and maintenance activity.
More of a  its an indefinite quantity indefinite timing so its in IDIQ type of contract.
And so it doesnt have the same immediate booking that the more definite execution for the Harris County does.
So we expect the Texas contract to  sorry the TxDOT contract to add maybe $30 million over the next three years but at a timing that may be a little bit lumpy as they decide on when to update and when to update their specific lanes.
Okay.
It just validates the strength of our technology.
I think people just  Im not sure by understand the strength of our technology compared to others and increasingly they are going to learn that Okay.
Thank you very much and congratulations on the Sunquest.
Thank you very much Alex.
Thanks Alex.
That ends our question-and-answer session for this call.
We would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
John Humphrey for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We look forward to talking to you after we complete our third quarter.
That concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
The Roper Industries Third Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Casey.
And thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our third quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Jason Conley who Heads our Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for todays call.
We prepared slides to accompany todays call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you please turn to slide two we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of todays call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to todays call in the context of that information.
Now if you please turn to slide three today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on a non-GAAP basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures was included in our press release this morning as also a part of this presentation which is available on our website.
The difference between the GAAP and the non-GAAP measures as we will be talking about them today is really made up of the following three discrete items.
First a fair value adjustment to acquire deferred revenue at Sunquest for the quarter this impact was $3.1 million to revenue and operating profit.
This adjustment represents revenue that absent our acquisition Sunquest would have recognized.
We believe showing our results on this basis provide additional insight into the ongoing and recurring results of the business.
Second we incurred $6.3 million of acquisition-related costs specific to Sunquest.
Finally we recorded a $1 million non-cash charged to earnings in the quarter for the early termination of our credit facility.
We believe discussing our results excluding these three discrete items provide investors with additional insights and improve understanding of the trends of our business.
And now if you please turn to slide four Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
And after his prepared remarks well take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
So well go through the Q3 enterprise financial results which were really quite good.
Look at segment detail and then take a look at our Q4 guidance and what the implications are for the full year.
Ill give you a summary and then take questions from people.
So next slide we look at the Q3 enterprise financial results we had an all time third quarter record for most everything accounts most orders in the history highest level of revenue sales biggest level of backlog $1 billion almost again net earnings were an all time record as well as EBITDA and cash flow both on an operating and free cash flow basis.
Our revenue was up 5% but that included $0.02 headwind on foreign exchange otherwise revenue would have been up 7% with organic growth up 3%.
If you look at the operating margin expansion it was really remarkable at 220 basis points up from what already best-of-class operating margins to 25.7%.
Our operating leverage was kind of beyond remarkable I have to put this in the spectacular category if you look at incremental sales and incremental op operating leverage in the quarter was 67%.
This really attribute to the nimble business model we have with break-even analysis and various analysis.
We get to the end we kind of talk about year-to-date just how well our operating leverage has gone and why that so important for the fourth quarter and in 2013.
Our EBITDA in the quarter was $231 million.
EBITDA margin was also up 220 basis points to 30.8% at the enterprise level.
Our GAAP operating cash flow is $205 million or 27% of revenue and its also up 23% from the third quarter last year.
And our diluted earnings per share were at $1.24 up from a $1.12 in the prior year cash conversion was spectacular we talk about that when we get into the balance sheet and cash flow but really exceptional margin expansion throughout the enterprise.
Next slide if we look at the income statement in Q3 I start out with orders being basically flat to the prior year up a $1 million and the reason for that is and we have a lot of variability in book-to-bill over the last two and half years almost always due to just project push outs coming in plus we have a difficult GAAP to proj comp finally goes away in the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date book to bill is the same as it generally and these quarterly variances we dont read much into it long as they are only driven by what happened with project bookings which we rarely have any control over.
So orders were probably better than they really looked in this chart.
Revenue at $751 million was up 3% organically.
Our gross profit moved from 53.7% up to 55.9% remarkable 220 basis points improvement.
And our operating income went up from the same 23.5% to 27.5% another 220 basis points with that 67% incremental leverage.
Actually it was worse in the third quarter than last year.
It cost us $0.03 a share compared to last years baseline numbers because we had fewer than 48 rollouts in the third quarter of this year than we did last year.
And our reported $24 includes about $2 million of restructuring expenses in energy that would have added a penny if we would have excluded that to hit a $25.
Sort of a note to July it was quite okay and September was strong with August being kind of down within the quarter.
Well talk more about that when we get to those segments.
So we actually feel better today than we did in the middle of the quarter.
Our Q3 operating reviews were much more optimistic when we held those in October than our mid-quarter discussions in August.
Next slide our EBITDA growth trend continues to see our Q3 trailing 12 months EBITDA back in 2010 with $585 million.
Weve added $287 million to that to reach the $872 million on it fairly 12-month basis now.
And questions are we always get are well how are you ever going to be able to hold this 25% EBITDA margins and our answer to our people and to everybody is were not going to settle for 25% EBITDA margins.
We dont have to settle for that kind of a number.
And here you see were up another 390 basis points in last two years to 29.8% EBITDA on a trailing 12 month basis 49% over the last two years.
Next slide on our Q3 cash flow its simply spectacular.
$205 million of operating cash flow represents 27% of revenue or $197 million of free cash flow represents 26% of revenue.
Its the 15th consecutive year where free cash flow has exceeded net earnings.
You can see weve moved up here from $437 million of trailing cash flow in 2010 third quarter to $618 million now.
Year-to-date our cash conversion is quite strong and well have an even stronger performance in the fourth quarter.
Our cash conversion in the third quarter was 176% on a GAAP basis with 166% on a non-GAAP basis.
And all these numbers are all time record numbers of cash flow.
Next slide if we look at the Q3 balance sheet youll see even after absorbing the $1.4 billion acquisition of Sunquest in August we still have an exceptionally strong balance sheet.
Cash has improved.
Our undrawn revolver is less than it was or its about same it was down a little bit.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA that were showing here at $779 million at September a year ago $872 million now that excludes any pro forma from Sunquest which would add dramatically to that number.
So when you look at the statistics around gross debt to cap there are 37%.
If we get net debt to net cap it would be 32.8%.
Our gross debt to EBITDA is only 2.4 and as you perform Sunquest of course it would be much closer to two.
We really have ample capacity to do any kind of transaction if we like to do and we still see a number of things in the pipeline that were discussing look attractive to us.
Next slide we can answer the specifics around segment details here.
Next slide in the third quarter our segment pro forma which was again remarkable.
Across the board in all the segments you can see gross margins at 52% 52% 55% and 66%.
And you can see EBITDA margins within each segment they were all above 30% and all of those are just leading us with a tremendous amount of flexibility with our balance sheet and ability to reinvest for growth in our existing business.
Next slide we start with RF technology which is our largest percentage of revenue at 29% within the quarter.
You can see on an organic basis I had a modest fall off eight-tenths of 1% in revenue which was really due to a specific push out in a job we have in Texas that we expected to start to deliver in the third quarter which looks like it might even move in the first half of next year.
But we had great margin expansions.
You can see operating profit was up 10% and operating profit margins were up 280 basis points.
We had some project activity that we expected to come in that really costs us between $5 million and $10 million against what we thought was possible that we were kind of assuming is going to come into the first half of next year some chance that it could move into the fourth quarter of this year some of that.
Overall the growth is really massed by 5% headwind from Q3 projects last year that were unusual that one-time installer trends and very large installation project at Miami University for CBORD.
Our SaaS-based businesses continue to grow in this quarter led by our freight match subscriber base increase which was quite substantial.
These pushouts that we have had we have very high confidence that they are going to be entering our order book within the next six months.
So once again we feel bit better about orders that have book to bill flat line number.
Next slide in the fourth quarter we have growth expected to improve in our toll and traffic project activity based on the timing that we have.
And we know that our margin expansion as the SaaS business continue to grow as a portion of the SaaS business will continue to give us improved margin that report job in the Middle East with one of the airports.
Mostly other things we have going on.
We unfortunately just cant talk about yet because they are not public.
Next slide.
On industrial technology we had organic growth in industrial technology of 10%.
So it continued to perform frankly better than our expectations.
It did have 3% of foreign currency headwind.
The operating margin there is amazing.
I mean our operating profit in the quarter was 30.8%.
Thats an all time operating profit margin which was driven by terrific executionist.
People are prepared to take out costs.
There is any kind of downturn and just on top of everyone there are variances.
The Neptune Toronto project rollout continued were now about 25% complete with several years ahead of us.
We have over 100 000 units installed in the field in Canada.
Now our fluid handling business remained very strong in the quarter.
Their oil shale activity that we have around directional drilling with some unique technology there offset the expected reduced demand we had on pressure pumps in the natural gas application.
So that really came in stronger than we might have guessed.
And our material gas business continue to grow both in North America and actually had modest improvement in Europe and Europe as whole for the enterprise not just Industrial Technology actually on am organic basis was flat in the third quarter whereas many people reporting organic negative growth in Europe.
In the fourth quarter you will see our extending margins in industrial we expect to continue.
We do have some growth comparisons that are going to become difficult for us in the fourth quarter.
As Neptune we get a benefit possibly from modest improvement in housing starts.
However in the fourth quarter that tends not to help that much thats going to have to be more of once you have returned to better client activity in 2013.
But thats going to be offset by a four year long program weve had with an individual customer thats rolling off and thats going to be about $5 million revenue in headwind within the quarter.
And then we have of course the fall off in shale activity for pressure pumps in the natural gas application.
But the rest of the activity industrial looks strong in the quarter.
Next slide the Energy Systems and Control segment it had organic growth of 4% but weve got of course being at generally a lot of non-U.S.
activity there FX hurt us by 3%.
We had very solid margin expansion despite taking a $2 million charge in two of our businesses in energy for a little bit of retention and it cost us a penny a share certainly good investment might be a tiny bit more of that in the fourth quarter.
Revenue was up 5% operating profit was up double digits at 11% and the operating profit margin came in at 27.1% up 140 basis points.
The Compressor Controls business which as always been project oriented and still is project oriented is growing its field service activity at such a fast cliff that the field service is beginning to change our book-to-bill ratio dynamics in this segment because the field service is while its not subscription-based certainly is a continue input around activity.
And then kind of a fresh benefit is that we had nuclear plant inspections added to growth here in the third quarter which is the first time we can say something positive about Vitec in a long time.
Refinery instrumentation demand though remained very weak and that -- lot of thats European business activity.
In the fourth quarter we expect to have strong seasonal Q4 demand and the nuclear inspection activity is going to continue as its already scheduled and we expect to get margin expansion from both growth and some of the benefits to these cost actions that weve already taken.
Next slide.
In the fourth quarter Im sorry the Medical and Scientific Imaging business youd see here this is where you are beginning to see the initial effect.
Sunquest coming in it will be -- you will see that in a much larger way of course in the fourth quarter and in 2013.
But even given that you can see revenue in the quarter was up 12% operating profit was up 28% and the operating profit margin was up 340 basis points to 28.1%.
Now acquisitions were 16% of that we had actually a negative organic growth of 3% in the segment because of the academic research markets being down double digits.
The good news for us is that medical already represents more than two-thirds of the revenue in the segment and the medical was approaching much higher percentage of the total operating profit in the segment as the imaging businesses become far far less important to our overall portfolio.
The Sunquest acquisition is completed.
Its off to a very good start around administrative and financial processes.
Its absolutely been the easiest transition weve ever had with any acquisition in our history.
We have very gifted organization in place not only from a marketplace and customer delivery perspective at Sunquest but the administrative functions and processes are the best that weve seen in an acquisition anytime in our history.
We have mid single-digit organic growth in Medical driven mostly by OEM systems revenue out of our Northern Digital acquisition couple of years ago and the Verathon Glidescope demand which continues to be quite substantial.
I mentioned the weakness that we have in the academic research markets which primarily impact to camera business but photonics in general down double-digit.
In the fourth quarter those research markets are going to remain weak but we finally left them so the comparisons become easier and some of those businesses will actually have increase revenue in the fourth quarter over both the third quarter and the fourth quarter a year ago.
Well have continued strength in the Medical platform.
We get the full quarter benefit of Sunquest acquisition coming in there and quite a nice boost from Northern Digital on OEM products that weve introduced and arrangements that weve made with the important large brand key manufacturers.
We get a little bit of benefit from our sanction acquisition which is getting nested inside Northern Digital and then a modest continued improvement out of Verathon.
We will have very dramatic margin expansion in the fourth quarter as we get the benefit of some things we've done in the core businesses and then the much better margins that will be added to us as a result of Sunquest.
One little noise factor that weve seen in the administrative arena and the academic research market is around some people concerned about China with the Japanese and Taiwanese customers who frequently export there and the noise around that is something thats hard to calibrate that does appeared to be real.
Next slide so here well talk about the 2012 guidance and where we stand.
Next slide we look at the full year weve initiated a full year non-GAAP diluted earnings per number of $4.91 to $4.97.
This raises the midpoint to $4.94.
The midpoint had been $4.92 on a $4.84 to $5 number.
Last year our non-GAAP EPS was $4.29 a share and remember we had a remeasurement gain of a nickel.
Weve brought the GAAP number from $4.34 down to $4.29 so that midpoint represents more than a 15% increase in EPS.
But of course real story for us is going to be the cash.
Our Q4 non-GAAP DEPS number weve established to the $1.43 to a $1.49.
That gives us an improvement over last years $1.23 somewhere between 16% and 21% in the fourth quarter.
That midpoint of $1.46 is higher than consensus and if you only did the midpoint youd be about 19% above last year on a non-GAAP DEPS measurement.
And again cash flow will be more important in our opinion than the DEPS measurement.
Very exciting thing about fourth quarter for us is that were going to hit a new milestone for Roper that weve never seen before where in the fourth quarter our EBITDA will exceed $250 million in the quarter meaning well have an excess of $1 billion EBITDA run rate in the fourth quarter which we are quite excited about.
Next slide.
If we look at the summary of activity in the third quarter you can see that weve now demonstrated all these records related to orders revenue backlog net earnings EBITDA and cash flow.
We had across the Board margin expansion in all four segments which was very comforting for us given the uncertain economic environment.
Organic revenue at plus 3% we would have like to see that a little bit higher but when you adjust for the technical GAAPs to fronts in the core and a little bit of push out in totaling I guess it was better than most.
Gross margins spectacular it hit 55.9% our operating margins at 25.7%.
Year-to-date if you take the first nine months and you look at the revenue you look at the op you do that calculation you will see that our operating leverage throughout the year is now above 50% of revenue.
Now we used to talk about 25% to 30% leverage out of EBITDA.
And then occasionally we get up to say well maybe 30% -- maybe could be 35% my goodness its above 50% throughout the entire year at this point.
Our free cash flow of $197 million was 26% of revenue.
I dont think there is any people that could point to step-by-step.
Sunquest we set very smooth transition lots of exciting opportunities really looking at some bolt-on things on that arena and doing some things we think well have big payoffs for 2013.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We have ample capacity continue to invest in transactions.
Weve got not only a record year that we know will deliver in the 2012 year but I think we can now say one position to another record year at 2013.
So with that I would like to open it up to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Well take our first question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Jeff.
Good morning.
Well maybe first question just pickup right where you left off you bravely approached 2013 on a pretty uncertain environment.
Obviously youve got the Sunquest accretion which would basically get you there.
But if you think about the other businesses could you elaborate a little bit on kind of the trends you are expecting as you exit the year in the next year? Hey I think were not going to provide any real guidance until we closed out the year.
We generally do that with the year-end report.
But I do think we were really taken by the -- we have a very formal quarterly review process.
We talked to everyone of our P&amp;L people.
And when we talk to them in August we were actually down 9% in orders in August and we were up late July September.
They were positive obviously or we would have the kind of performance you saw.
People were really apprehensive I guess.
And we are that kind of behind that so people are worried about that but all of the customer contacts relatively favorable.
Europe has performed a little better than we might have expected the industrial businesses with 10% organic growth in the third quarter which kind of competing.
We know what are challenges are in 2013.
We will have some struggling activity unless founding starts picked up and Neptune that we need to overcome.
But our toll and traffic businesses are going to be more robust next year then they have been.
The medical scenario is going to be better.
We have some great clarity around various things we are doing there.
The CBORD is going to win at major Northeastern University that we cant get announced.
Its very important a large opportunity for us.
We have some things that are going on in projects that we know are going to come to fruition.
So we -- all those things that are negative we kind of have those cooked out in our opinion unless there are some kind of much more precipitous falloff and so new field we are comfortable I would say going into 2013 than we have it anytime this year.
Great.
Thank you.
And could you elaborate a little bit more on what you see on the scientific and research side that indicated the comp is easier in Q4.
But do you have some thoughts on what sequester looks like for the business for example that happens next year and what actions you might take? Well we are taking some actions.
But I dont think that the sequester would have much effect because these are not really defense-related businesses.
They are really research applications going mostly to university markets.
I think that the U.S.
is a fairly small part of where those businesses survey less than a third of low revenue.
So sequester would have any impact as it relates to Europe and Asia which is where the lion share of our revenue where those camera business resides.
The other thing is it that they are of course better than other peoples businesses.
They are -- the worst portion of the margin side of our OP in the company.
So if they are down they dont have a kind of negative spin.
Its not quite having any of the other businesses -- have negative variances.
So they are really getting to the point where they have very little effect on the overall enterprise.
And then just finally and I have passed the time since you are kind enough to give us specific August order and that number down nine.
Can you tell us what September was and what you are seeing in October? With the gifted statistician such as your software read out to you to back into it if they were modestly favorable.
Our overall build to the year by the way is 101 and so we are preparing for all this we are looking at that fasting owing to -- in the last five or six quarters weve been all over the math.
We used to say that our book-to-bill would be 0.97 or 1.03.
And so certainly on our trailing basis were right in that sweet spot.
But we had number of quarters.
In the last six month weve been sort of outside the margin.
And so the projects stop -- if we stop reporting orders we wouldnt have to waste time talking about it.
But things are fine they are going to continue to be good.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Good morning gentlemen.
Mark.
Looking in the fourth quarter well first of all what would be the organic orders in the quarter from 3Q? Organic orders were down 2% so we kind of have to same 2% headwind on FX so thats.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
And then what we thinking as far as organic sales in fourth quarter kind of similar to what you saw in the third quarter? That based -- our guidance is based upon how low-single digit organic growth in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then we can talk about the medical segment much higher operating profit than I think a lot of us saw how much of that is really due to Sunquest and then also did you have some pretty custom cost actions I know medical now are above two thirds but still two thirds of the businesses down double-digits to have margin expand that dramatically is pretty good can you dive down to that a little more? Well I think you are right as far as the relative mix and we continue to grow with higher margin areas.
Sunquest comes in above the company average operating profit margin.
So that give us a little bit tailwind but even ups and down we still saw margin expansion in the segment as we continue to grow in medical versus the lower margin camera businesses.
And the nice thing about those -- for the nice thing well few nice things about this camera business is they do have a pretty variable cost structure.
So the reason of large -- fixed cost they need to have restructuring actions so they are able to flex some of their operating expenses revenue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey would like to get some color regarding the restructuring actions taken in energy.
You said there was a couple of projects but and then suggest so you could do some more in the fourth quarter maybe if you can just expand on that? Yeah.
Thats largely severance-related actions so it was right at $2 million in the quarter.
Once again with the asset license of this model we dont really have the larger restructuring charges that taken off a lot of time to a implement and b realize the benefits from.
So those are severance related actions with couple of the businesses.
Great.
And then Brian I know you cant names but your comment about CBORD having a big North East university win.
These are always pretty important and especially if you are just placing and incumbent.
So maybe just give us a color to the extent that you can regarding the context of the win what the opportunity was the value that CBORD is bring that the incumbent was not able to provide.
I think the -- this is somebody we have been working with for a while and this is a much larger rollout and will normally be the case in terms of the size which will be apparent when we finally get around announcing it because its not a small campus environment.
And while they see a lot of connectivity point.
We continue to grow at the expense as a competitor in this arena and anyone that to close to those market spaces know that weve been gaining share and expect to continue to gain share because our folks are really focused on the space and are compromised with other possible things that this one competition seems to be involved with.
So its really beneficial competitive environment if you will for CBORD that they are ceasing on.
And we continue to beef up our delivery capability in CBORD and we had a quite a bit of talent in the project management arena.
We have promoted somebody into a key role there and were quite happy with the way they are focused.
I think our new software executive and we have a business development chief architect that can help people think creatively about how to expand their existing product offerings as well.
So I think its going to be a long-term continuing contributor to the company.
Now with that this just in terms of timing on that order and would that be in a -- would that be a summer time delivery thats typically when CBORD does those transactions? Yeah.
I think thats still in our future to determine exactly what the rollout in the implementation schedule will be.
Because there are different parts of the CBORD project.
There would be the software portion which of course thats the large occurring nature to that.
And then also in many cases security systems will have installation that have to be schedule around other activity in the campus environment.
So I think the implementation schedule is still in front of us to be able to determine that with the customer.
Great.
Thank you.
Youre welcome Deane.
Thank you.
Well take a next question from Steve Tusa with J.P.
Morgan.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Really impressive the margins results RF Tech up 300 basis points versus last year.
Could you just maybe parsed the dynamic there and what drove that? Sure.
A couple of different things one very good tag shipments which always helps our toll and traffic business but then also the addition of our and the growth in our software businesses.
Right.
We have a lot of recurring revenue but then also come in generally with a little better than the margin performance that our toll and traffic and particularly the projects side of our toll and traffic business.
And so with the combination of mix plus also some costs actions and some other things that we had that we were expensive last year than they are this year.
So weve had that tailwind through the first three quarter and expect that to continue in the fourth as well.
Europe was down I guess 20% in energy in the second quarter.
Can you maybe talk about how those dynamic change in the third quarter.
Has there been any kind of change in customer behavior any problems in financing or credit terms any thing like that? The things we are delivering are not highly expensive.
They are really -- we dont need to think how it was capital items at all.
It might be a capital projects thats driving purchase of the instrumentation software that we sell but Europe in total for the company not just energy its down to 15% of Q3 revenue.
Right.
So did you ask was this little over 60%? Actually Europe we include some what other people would call Middle Eastern markets some of that goes through Europe because of arrangements we have inevitably with some people and absolute number.
Probably John can give better numbers.
Yeah.
Just to check Steve so as far as energy is concerned just for that segment Europe was actually up almost 10% on organic basis.
Remember we do have some OEMs.
They are still generally weak on some of the refining in the markets but we have some OEMs there that survey global marketplace.
So our destination revenue goes to Europe but their destination revenue were fairly top of that goes all over the world that is continued to be driven by North American and Middle East activity more so than Europe.
And so Europe we look at it across the entire company was kind of flat and organic basis versus last year.
Right.
Next headwind of 5% or 6%.
So on reported basis it was down but you strip out that FX impact.
We were kind of the same as last year and we still refining the headwind of course got to find.
So our argue would be the Europe was a little bit better than what we saw in the second quarter.
Having said that second quarter was a pretty low part of deal to jump over.
Right.
And then one last question on the compressor control stuff its been pretty good on LNG related demand and maybe some of the orders do you think I think he said was going to kind of ramp in the fourth quarter any other kind of details there to help paying more visible picture on whats going on there? I think I mentioned in the segment commentary the thing its really changing in our compressor control businesses is adding additional of project work.
We are getting this very high level of field service which is becoming more of annuity on a continuing basis.
And we are way more resources than we ever had to do that.
That actually depresses the -- what you perceive as organic growth of course because it just normalized in here more like one of our software business.
Other than that we havent seen any follow up and what people want to do around compressor control.
We continue to have couple of bolt-on acquisitions we did United Controls and Trinity Software that have had -- they could be doing more roles than they have in the past.
And I think well some spike up and that will help us to.
So we would probably expect little better orders over the next six months than weve had in the last six.
Okay.
Congratulation on a very quarter.
Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Yeah.
Good morning.
I have just two questions I guess maybe a little bit of follow-up on that last one but both what we think it was maybe the shorter turns businesses the industrial tag and also the energy systems business just in general had that the book-to-bill in the quarter for both of those business was below one and certainly below a seasonal pickup seasonal expectation.
And is that is the way youre thinking about that that the damage was done kind of maybe in month of August and again short returns businesses where we saw recovery in September? Yeah.
I think thats I mean thats the generally the case Rick.
But also as we look at the book-to-bill ratio inside the company the major drivers really are project driven business not the things that we are more book in turn inside of a shorter window.
And as you know we always keep a close eye on some of our as we think of them our leading indicator businesses our Struers material test business our Dynisco business serving a number of process industries as well as a couple of the other sensor businesses and energy.
And those continue to perform well.
Their book-to-bill ratio was solid in the quarter and again I mean August was tough but September was better for them.
So I think that that commentary that Brian was talking about is largely around the book and ship businesses and we have the project timing things that will overlay against that.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just one follow -- my follow-up.
There was some -- I think Brian you had mentioned that there was some project activity in the RF Tech segment that was pushed from maybe the second half of this year into the first half of next year.
Is it -- where did that fall was that the tolling business or where is that? Yeah.
Our total stuff in Texas we had a very large contract that we won in the second quarter and we expect that we would have been doing some delivery by now and there are some things going on with tolling authority that are moving things around and they are not ready for delivery yet.
So thats getting pushed out to probably I dont know first quarter of next year.
A tiny chance we might get a little bit out here in the fourth quarter but we are assuming its one of the 2013 it actually give benefit to us because Okay.
 it helps like any fall off that might occur in 2013 and some of these other areas.
And the push out I think you had mentioned $5 million to $10 million is that kind of an annualize number or are we suggesting that was pushed out of the back half for this year? We worked opposite.
This is just locked.
When we were preparing our guidance for the third quarter we were thinking well get $5 million to $10 million out of this particular project and we didnt get anything that we could offer.
I see.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for the clarification.
Thats why we are not at all worried about our book-to-bill its 9 Okay.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Heard the comments on tolling being a little stronger next year but just trying to think about how to frame up the segment in our longer-term.
It looks like maybe the traffic and tolling side is kind of a flat line business.
You get some growth out of the software side.
So it kind of low growth longer-term but a margin melt-up on mix shift.
Is that anything wrong with that thinking? I mean if thats what happens then you are right with respect to the margin benefit.
Im not at all going where you are as far as toll and traffic been a flat business.
I think they have a lot of opportunities in front of them.
They have the number of solutions that they continue to deploy.
People around the world are looking for ways to reduce congestion and generate revenue from their existing infrastructure.
I think that the trends in their business are favorable.
Its not all the question of whether austerity overwhelms that but I dont think it does.
So Im not going where you are as far as it being a flat business.
Yeah.
I wasnt necessarily there.
Just wanted to bounce that up that was very helpful.
And then on the regions John did the U.S.
deviated all from the monthly trends that you talked about? Not materially but straight to mind no.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Brian you mentioned some dynamics with China Japan and Taiwan.
Can you talk a little bit more about them and specifically how its impacting your business or how you expected to impact your business? Well its really in -- more in academic and research arena where we have almost a lot of our sales ultimately are going to China but through Japanese and Taiwanese distribution or technology companies.
Certainly the political situation that has escalated on the rhetoric basis between Japanese and Chinese less than helpful for people.
So we are -- we were curious as to whether thats going to get resolved anytime soon but doesnt it -- it makes us a little more cautious about some of our end markets in particular area.
But remember Matt as you know I mean its a very small part of the overall company.
But we do like to point out things that seem to be trend changes and that is a something we had not heard prior to the third quarter from people that I think are insightful.
So kind of just alluring you that it could be a headwind.
Got it.
And then I wanted to spend just a moment on your CCC business.
It sounds like you have excellent visibility there.
So please I mean first correct me even if Im working in thinking that? And then I want to make sure I understand what dictates kind of the momentum and timing around your field service activity? And is this a business that is going to require some incremental internal investment near-term? It doesnt really need if its people related.
So its just a matter of we have seen an opportunity to expand our field service business for a lot of reasons.
The people want to focus on capital equipment which is very lumpy and they are leaving behind an opportunity to give out field service in this area which we are picking out at a fast pace.
So that requires a little bit of investment for people but not massive one.
They are expensive people because of where they are physically located.
And then in terms of the order processes they are always lumpy in CCC.
There is not anything you can do about that people order their technology from us with a long lead time.
So its not unusual to get an 18-month out order we only book things that are shippable within 12 months.
So we dont create a massive backlog and stuff that isnt going to hit our next forward 12 months of activity.
And we have a very strong knowledge about who we are working with in various CCC projects and what the likely outcome is going to be.
Those tend not to be so much what equity projects.
I mean you are kind of working with somebody from a design viewpoint where youll likely get the order we would not lose many orders that we are involved with.
And then just lastly one quick one.
Captures decision to open source their technology and does that do anything to the tolling space at all? No.
We think thats a change versus the statistical.
I mean those are I believe our understanding of that is its a number of patterns that have already expired and frankly weve been on the leading edge of and also a lot of these interoperable solutions.
We are the first people to and TransCore who were the first people to introduce multi-protocol readers.
So a tolling authority could have the opportunity of having their choice of the best tag technology and we would be believe to read any ones available.
So I dont think that that recent announcement really effects the competitive dynamic.
I think its just a reflection of todays environment already.
All right.
Thanks John.
Im sorry I think these are the strength of our business.
Appreciate that.
Thanks Brian.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Well go next to Alex Blanton with Clear Harbor Asset Management.
Good morning.
Hey Brian.
I wanted to ask whats your GAAP estimate would be for the fourth quarter? You got a $1.43 $1.49 for the non-GAAP? Yeah.
And the The difference is the deferred revenue is probably Its a $0.04 difference.
$0.04 below that.
Okay.
So we can calculate Yeah.
Thats exactly.
That $0.04 is related to the deferred revenue fair value adjustment as revenue out of the acquisition we would have recorded.
Yeah.
Okay.
I was away from the call for a minute.
So I dont know if this was asked but you mentioned in your opening remarks that August dipped down a bit and you were concerned and then things strengthened.
Whats the reason for that? Thats an odd fluctuation.
I think August was an aberration.
When you scoop it out the third quarter was maybe 2% below what we would have outpouring.
We actually know that that was more project oriented.
But in the middle of the quarter we were apprehensive because we dont want -- maybe there is some kind of falloff and we have really seen that.
So were kind of back to a reasonable September and a reasonable July.
Theres been an economic fall off since then as pretty dramatic going into the fourth quarter here with a lot of companies reporting weakness and things below expectations.
Did you experience that apparently in August and then recovered some of that debts? Remember this is only a few of our businesses are going to bounce around like that.
I mean the medical businesses that are more secular in nature most of are up other than the lumpy side of the projects.
Its pretty secular in nature with growth.
So if you have a falloff in industrial energy its almost always rebounds in the fourth quarter in energy.
Any way well have a lot of things that people would want to invest in with them on budgets and other arenas.
And Alex few other thing I would add to that is that we dont report -- there are some companies that actually report their quarter of their activity on a monthly basis because they really are better gauge and more type to near-term macro economic activity.
Thats never really been our business profile.
So were not really a good indicator for the macro world because of the niche markets that we serve and many of the things that have the secular growth tailwinds that I was talking about.
So I think the -- other reason that we mentioned it was a little bit different than what we normally see but were not looking at month-to-month activity or week-to-week activity.
Were not that type of macro business.
Right.
I realize that and in looking at next year well right now investment is lagging.
Investors are really on strike capital goods investment Im talking about could even be down here in the fourth Hello.
Mr.
Blanton.
Looks like his -- he disconnected his line.
Alex well follow up with you later on today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And thank you all for joining us this morning and as always we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
The Roper Industries Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results conference call will now begin.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our fourth quarter and full year.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller and Jason Conley Head of Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for todays call.
In addition weve prepared slides to accompany todays call which are available through the webcast and also on our website at <a href="http://www.roperind.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.roperind.com</u></a>.
If youll turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of todays call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed further in our SEC filings.
You should listen to todays call in the context of that information.
Now if youll turn to Slide 3 today well be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on a non-GAAP basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is in our press release and also included as a part of this presentation on our website.
To detail that for the fourth quarter the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP is a fair value adjustment to acquired deferred revenue at Sunquest.
For the quarter this impact was $6 million to revenue and operating profit.
This adjustment to remind everyone represents revenue that absent our acquisition Sunquest would have recognized.
We believe showing our results on this basis provides additional insight into the ongoing and recurring results of the business.
For the full year the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP is comprised of three discrete items:  one the fair value adjustment to acquired deferred revenue; second acquisition-related costs specific to Sunquest and the debt extinguishment charge we recorded in the third quarter.
We believe discussing our results excluding these items provides investors with additional insight and improves understanding of the trends of our business.
And now if youll please turn to Slide 4 I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks well take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian?  Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
So as we look at the Q4 enterprise financial results it turned out to be the best quarter in our history on virtually every measurement category.
Orders were at the highest level revenue the highest net earnings highest EBITDA and both operating and free cash flow were all-time records for us.
Revenue was up 10% in the quarter.
Organic growth was 3% and all four segments really participated in our record fourth quarter.
We ended the year with $953 million in backlog which is 15% higher than it was this time last year and our gross margin was really spectacular.
It came in at a remarkable 57.9% for the quarter which really speaks to the quality of our businesses and their ability to execute.
So gross margin up 300 basis points above levels that most people never even see.
Our operating margin expanded 300 basis points to 28.3% because operating leverage in the quarter came in at about 57% on new revenue.
Our operating leverage throughout the year has been above 50% and well talk more about that throughout the discussion this morning.
Remember that we have a lot of non-cash amortization charges in our operating margins.
If you look at them on an EBITDA basis it would be substantially higher  another 4 points.
Our EBITDA in the quarter was 275 million.
You might remember at the end of the third quarter wed said we hoped to hit a run rate in the fourth quarter of a billion dollars or more and we certainly achieved that.
Our EBITDA margins were up 370 basis points even higher expansion than our gross margin and reached 33.7% in the quarter.
Our GAAP operating cash flow was 212 million in the quarter which represented 26% of revenue another record for us.
Our diluted earnings per share even though revenue was up 10 our earnings were up 20% to $1.48 and that brought the full-year earnings to 4.96 a share versus 4.34 last year.
It really was broad-based as youll see this morning.
Next slide? If you look at the income statement in the quarter our orders were up 12%.
Organic was up 4.
Our revenue was up 10 and organic was up 3.
For the people who look at book-to-bill relationships our book-to-bill in the fourth quarter was a little bit better than the fourth quarter of last year and we finished the full year 12 at a book-to-bill of 1.
Our gross profit was 57.9% up 300 basis points.
I dont think anybody would have believed Roper would have achieved a 58% gross margin at this time but weve done that and we think its pretty sustainable.
Our operating income was up 23% and our operating margin was up 300 basis points due to that 57% operating leverage in the quarter.
Again if you add non-cash amortization to that that number would be another sort of 4 points higher.
Our interest expense was up from 15 to 21 million because we had a successful $900 million bond offering which closed on November 15 in the fourth quarter.
That bond offering set records for execution in terms of spreads on our rating.
There were a number of very favorable things about that bond offering and of course it sharply reduces the rate at which our interest costs will be coming in in the future.
Our tax rate was a little higher in the fourth quarter.
It was 30.1% versus last years 29 and that actually cost us $0.02 in the quarter.
You can also think about it in terms of an amortization that if it was $0.02 in the quarter it would have been $0.08 for the year; so a point of tax reduction for us is worth $0.08 a share so lets root for governmental tax reform.
Net earnings as you can see up 21% and DEPS up 20%.
Thank you next slide.
We go to EBITDA growth.
Here youll see we closed out the full year at 925 million of EBITDA which is up 45% just in the last two years; and our EBITDA margins just continue to move up.
You can see theyre up to 30.8% for the full year.
Thats 410 basis points above where they were just two years ago.
Most importantly about this slide is that while our gross margins are already at 30.8% were going to tell you that in 2013 we expect them to expand still further.
Next slide? Our cash flow performance was 212 million in the fourth quarter representing 26% of revenue and cash conversion of 147.
On a free cash flow basis you can see it was 25% of revenue and 141%.
While our cash flow is already best in class our ratios continue to improve.
As you can see here on the right-hand side of the chart our free cash flow reached 639 million up from 471 two years ago; but if you look at the percentage at the bottom youll see that in 2010 our free cash flow to revenue was 19.7% and this year it was 21.3% up another 160 basis points in just two years.
Next slide? If you look at our asset velocity performance there are a couple of very important things about this slide.
Our inventory was actually down at the end of the year at 5.9%.
Payables were about 4.3 by the way so remember our goals were to always try to get inventory and payables to be close together so that its just receivables that are investment around pricing in the way we think about things.
So we closed out the year with inventory plus receivables less payables and accruals at 4.8% truly a remarkable number.
Whats really interesting and encouraging to us  you can see in 2010 11 and 12 we now have a sustainable level of performance that says we need less than $0.06 of working capital to create a dollar of revenue and thats really an exceptional result and sustainable.
Next slide? If we look at the financial position of the company and the balance sheet you can see even though we invested over 1.4 billion in 2012 our balance sheet is still in terrific shape.
Cash is slightly higher.
Our undrawn revolver of course is much higher and our cash and undrawn revolver powder are up here at 1.771 billion versus 1.088 so after investing over 1.4 billion weve still got about 700 million more powder than we did last year.
You can see our trailing 12 months EBITDA at 9.25 when you then do the debt ratios gross debt to EBITDA is about 2.2 but net debt to EBITDA is only (inaudible).
Well generate we think well in excess of 700 million in free cash flow in 13 to go on top of that so not impossible to envision us having 2.5 billion to invest soon.
Next slide? Here well look individually at the various segment details  next slide.
This is probably the most remarkable slide in the deck in my opinion.
When you think about execution every one of our segments is doing spectacularly well.
You have four segments and you have four quarters and youll see here we were a perfect 16 for 16 in execution where every segment increased its margin over the prior year in every quarter.
If you look at the industrial technology you can see revenue for the year was up 8% operating profit up 15% and operating margin reached 30% - was up 190 basis points.
If you look at energy systems here revenue was up 8% operating profit up 14 and operating profit margin up 140 basis points.
In medical revenue was up 17% operating profit up 35% and OP margin up 380 basis points to 28.1.
And then finally while revenue was flat in our largest segment in RF operating profit was up 10% and our operating margin was up 250 basis points.
Lastly on this slide where you can see really we were up 8% 8% 17% and then flat the overall company came in up 7% in revenue and up 55% in operating leverage with our largest segment flat for the year so it speaks really well of the diversity of the things we have going for us in our businesses.
Next slide? If we look at the energy systems and control segment you will see in the fourth quarter we were up 7% in revenue and 16% in OP a remarkable operating profit margin of 33.1%.
Organic revenue was up 6% in the fourth quarter.
Our margin expansion was led primarily by the leverage on growth of the incremental sales and then the benefit of some cost actions that we took in the third quarter in anticipation of some recessionary risks that we might have seen at that time which have dissipated.
Compressor controls growth was led again by our LNG projects around the world and certainly an all-time record in the field service activity associated with those products and the aftermarket that they create.
We had a double-digit increase in our alpha technology company which is really an instrument-based data capturing technology that tire company and latex OEMS use for measuring; and we have very strong seasonal demand in the fourth quarter which we expected to have when we issued guidance.
In the 2013 year as we look ahead we think compressor controls will continue to generate record levels of revenue with new applications for existing software in the installed base of operations that weve enjoyed with our growth recently adds substantially to the customer service profile.
We also have made several bolt-on acquisitions.
We dont talk a lot about those but this year alone we acquired a company called Cambridge Instruments which helps our PAC business with online data collection.
We acquired Hao Ying in China a small sensor company that goes in with our Dynisco product in the Shanghai area; and just on the last day of the year we acquired another small business that relates to our diesel engine shut-off valve technology.
And those go along with late 2011 acquisitions United Controls and Trinity Software for compressor controls so these bolt-ons coupled with organic growth should continue to give us a strong 2013 for energy.
Next slide? If we look at our industrial technology segment here youll see it was actually down 1% in the fourth quarter but operating profit was up a couple of points.
We had a favorable benefit due to an accounting thing that happened in the fourth quarter so the published margins are a little bit better than what wewere discounting that as a one-time event so were coming in at operating profit 29.9 versus the GAAP number of 32.7.
In the fourth quarter fluid handling continued to be very strong with our directional drillings operations at Roper Pump.
Everything related to fracking and oil shale was good except for lower demand for de-watering pumps and basically in the gas arena.
Our Cornell company received a product innovation of the year award for new cutter pump technology that we introduced that breaks up debris and wastewater and reduces clogging which we think will lead to strong growth for us in that segment.
Our material test business at Struers remained exceptionally strong as it related to consumables although some of the equipment sales were lower than they were in the prior year.
<br>Neptune is an interesting story in that overall it was flat in the quarter but that really belies the fact that Neptune had an all-time record year in 2012.
We had very strong distributor growth in the fourth quarter of this year and a little bit of incremental growth out of the Toronto project; but as we said at the end of the third quarter we had lost one large customer and the impact of that came in the fourth quarter so that it negated what was actually double-digit revenue growth throughout the country.
We had very exceptional margin performance at nearly 30% and it really was broad-based throughout the segment.
As we look to next year in 2013 the fluid handling oil shale growth will continue.
We have a variety of new products that we continue to add to Roper Pumps directional drilling technologies.
We added capacity in 2012 to give us better throughput and faster turnaround at our (inaudible) operation and in 2013 something that I think no one would have ever expected us to say is were actually investing in a new facility in Texas for much larger diameter staters and power sections than we have today due to the growth and prospects for market share gains which are occurring quite rapidly in this segment.
In the second half of the year we think well get better fluid handling rental market activity that ought to boost Cornell.
We think throughout the year the other businesses will have sort of low single-digit growth in their industrial end markets; and at Neptune with a little stronger work out of Torontos project an improved housing start here in the U.S.
better distribution sales growth should largely offset the customer loss which will be quite significant in the first half of the year.
Next slide? In our RF technology segment here you can see revenue for the quarter was flat but operating profit was up 8% and the OP margin was 27% which is quite good margin for that segment.
We had very solid execution in creating that margin expansion and most of that came out of better management in the toll and traffic arena.
Weve really made a number of people changes in that segment and have a new leader whos been with the company for quite some time.
Hes doing an outstanding job in building a stronger team around execution.
TransCore received an important award for the Doha Airport for both access control and parking control in Doha and we expect that will generate in the high millions single-digit millions of dollars for us next year.
TransCore also received a very prestigious award where they won whats called the International Road Federation Global Achievement Award that was presented by the Chairman of the International Road Federation to the mayor of Riyadh in Saudi Arabia.
That was for the work that we did that we dont talk a lot about in managing New York City traffic lights and traffic systems.
Our ITS project in New York this past year also won an award as the outstanding project in the year.
TransCore won another award for what are called HOV lane activity supports and that was based really in California where they got the California Transportation Foundations 2012 Project of the Year Award.
So our innovation and technological execution continues to be very strong in all these businesses.
Our SAS-based subscriber base in the fourth quarter continued to grow and software margins then expanded as a result which helped the segment.
In CBORD which we indicated had won a major university in the northeast we can now tell you that that actually was Northeastern University; and as you all know Northeastern has quite a large campus footprint and were going to be doing integrated security projects for them for quite some time.
Our bid activity is exceptionally robust at CBORD for 2013.
As we look at next year our backlog and project pipelines in this segment give us a lot of confidence around pretty good growth in 2013.
Our technolog growth profile should return.
You may remember that technolog is really whats holding back RF technologies apparent organic growth in 2012 because we had over a $20 million project in France in 2011 which of course wouldnt repeat into 12 and was a headwind of more than $5 million a quarter.
Our software recurring revenue base we think will continue to expand as we get an increasing number of new customers and we think our margin improvement that you see this year will continue and strengthen in 2013.
Next slide? If you look at the medical and scientific imaging segment pretty soon I think we can just call it the medical segment.
This really became the largest segment in the company in the fourth quarter which is hard to believe but you had organic revenue growth of 6% in the quarter which of course was led by medical.
Our Northern Digital business delivered a record quarter as their OEM system sales for minimally invasive surgical placement hit an all-time high and then Sunquest we had the benefit of for the full quarter.
Our integration is really very much on track here with Sunquest and the data now kind of shows you just how strong a company Sunquest is and what kind of performance you get out of it.
Well continue I think to demonstrate that as you see them in for a full year in 2013.
We also took a charge as weve made considerable changes at Verathon to drive faster product introduction and have started to discontinue some efforts around certain engineering initiatives and pare back the rate at which we roll out some of the products that were in their pipeline that we think while they are interesting they are not as interesting as other new opportunities were focused on.
So we took a $4 million charge in the quarter on inventory and tooling around a product line that we think may do okay but not at the pace that we were prepared to continue to invest in.
As we look at 2013 youll see were going to get a significant benefit out of a full year of Sunquest contributions.
Our margins we think are going to continue to expand as Sunquest becomes a larger piece of the mix of this segment and we think well get operating leverage out of organic growth.
Our medical businesses we think all have favorable end markets.
Weve got a number of strategic initiatives that have been put in place under the fellows leading our segment here  Neil we brought on in at the end of third quarter of 2011.
We think well finally get a little bit of modest improvement in our research markets that relate to the cameras.
Camera this year has been a terrific headwind down about 13% over the prior year but came in sort of flat in the fourth quarter which is finally a trend weve been looking for.
We think it will actually have positive growth on a modest level in 2013.
Next slide? <br>If you look at our 2013 guidance  next slide  we establish guidance for the full year at 560 to 582 so that gives you a midpoint of 571 versus 496 this year at the midpoint.
Wed be up 15.1% on a net earnings basis.
Were projecting revenuer growth of 8 to 10%.
We think organic ought to be up 3 to 5.
We think organic in the first half of the year will be quite modest particular stress on Q1.
We think well be up in the high single digits organic growth rate in the third and fourth quarter.
Foreign exchange were just assuming the 12/31 rates would continue.
Tax rate a little higher next year at 31%.
Diluted share count we think will come in at about 100.5 million shares and then if you look at our Q1 guidance were saying $1.19 to $1.23.
Full-year operating cash flow we think will exceed 775 million  thats up about 100 million from what we just delivered here this past year.
I think whats really important is that if you look at the power of our cash-on-cash return models now as they start to really compound that 775 million for 2013 when we look out in the next three years  13 14 and 15  we would expect to generate over 2.5 billion in operating cash flow and that gives us of course an incredible amount of flexibility for investing in these businesses.
Next slide? If you look at the summary then for 2012 you can see that we achieved really all-time record results.
Total revenue was up 7% for the year even though our largest segment had no revenue increase; organic revenue up 4% our gross margin up 180 basis points to 56% for the year operating margin was up 220 basis points to 25.8% on operating leverage that exceeded 50% on the next dollar of revenue.
Our non-cash amortization for 2012 was $117 million which really understates the quality of our operating earnings; so if you add the non-cash amortization back into the operating margin or the interest before tax if you will you get an EBITDA ratio of 29.6%.
Our EBITDA was 125 million up over the prior year and our EBITDA margins for the full-year were at 30.8%.
Weve already told you we expect those to expand in 2013.
Our CAPEX for the year was 38 million which is exactly the same as depreciation; and when we talk about EBITDA we really need to get Roper to distinguish the awareness around other peoples EBITDA has a lot of D and a lot of CAPEX it needs to offset it.
Ours simply doesnt.
This is really all EBIT-A with just 38 million of D and 38 million of offsetting CAPEX.
Operating cash flow for the full-year at 678 million represented 23% of revenue and we hope to add over 100 million to that for this year.
We invested over a 1.4 billion in acquisitions.
Our deal pipeline now is as exciting as ever.
We expect to capture additional opportunities in 2013 and weve already got over 1.5 billion of powder before we add another 700 million to that as the year progresses.
So with that wed like to open it up to questions.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
On the medical side you were flat on organic revenue growth.
Did you see any pull-in from some of the year-end business getting pulled in maybe related to the pending tax increase or any budget flush? No we really didnt see that at all and most of our stuff is kind of going direct so its not a like a distributor pull-in with standard products that some other people might have.
And then Brian when you talk about the acquisition capacity approaching 2.5 billion for the medical side are you more apt to pursue adjacencies new products new platforms in SAS like youve done in Sunquest or would you be looking more in the device side like Verathon Northern Digital where you can drop a product line into your sales force?  Well we would and are doing both.
You just never know what youre able to negotiate in terms of whats the best use of funds.
So were always really looking at the asset velocity of things so the software businesses have an easier hurdle because they always have less assets.
If their product businesses are such that we think theyre well positioned and have great defense mechanisms were not opposed to adding to that.
As a general rule there certainly are some product transactions were looking at now but most of the things were looking at are related to software and service opportunities.
Great thats helpful.
Just one last one if I could  on the Neptune customer loss give us some perspective was this on pricing?  Is it a market share shift?  You said that there would be some impact in the next couple quarters.
Yeah its a very large customer who has decided that they want to go to take the risk associated with the composite meters.
We dont think it says anything other than theyre going to try something else.
We had a long-term contract with them thatand they had a change in management and well see how it works out.
It will have an effect on the first half of this year from a revenue viewpoint.
I dont think its indicative of anything; in fact we were up nearly 20% in (inaudible) sales in the fourth quarter so you cant see it.
We wound up being flat because you got one large customer thats down.
John I dont know if you want to add anything to Deans question around the customer situation?  I think its a one-off thing that  Yeah Id agree with that.
It sort of supply chain people making the decision instead of operating people.
I know the operating people arent happy about it.
And its one of those things thatI mean its important in terms of Neptune but once it gets to the Roper level it really gets not as material for sure.
It will be an impact for the first quarter and the first half.
Great thank you.
Morning.
Just a couple questions.
Brian can you talk a little bit about later in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter the kind of order dynamics youre seeing in your shorter cycle businesses like Dynisco and you mentioned Struer equipment sales down.
Has that trend changed? Well whats important about the fourth quarter  its a great question Matt  is we have three businesses:  Dynisco which is always supplying things which frequently have to do with capacity utilization; Struer which is somewhat similar to that in terms of their consumables; and then our core AMOT business.
Those three were leading indicators for us in Q4 of 2008 when you went into the 09 downturn so were looking at those things weekly.
In the fourth quarter they did better than the concern level you would have had so we havent really seen anything in those businesses yet that would indicate that theres any forward indicator; and in fact December shipments were stronger for the businesses than October and November which resulted in us having a little bit more receivables at the end of the year than we would have liked to have had but you know its the year-end stuff that happens frequently.
So I dont think theres anything that makes us nervous and in the case of the equipment it wasnt core equipment that we provide out of Struers for cutting technology.
We have a line of hardness testers that we sell and they were off in the fourth quarter.
Fortunately theyre lower margin products so it wasnt overly material but its something were keeping our eye on.
And then just one follow-up  can you just talk about what youre seeing out of Sunquest in terms of pro forma organic revenue growth versus your expectation going into the deal? Sure.
I mean they continue to do extremely well.
Were seeing high single digit organic growth out of that business and we would expect to see that continue into 2013 also.
Thanks Brian.
Thanks John.
Good morning gentlemen.
Looking at your expectations of expanded EBITDA margins in 2013 can you help break down a little bit how much you expect in gross margin improvement versus operating expense growth?  It seems like a lot ofI think certainly some of it is going to come from Sunquest but if you can break that down itd be helpful.
You know Im going to need to follow up with you on that.
We do expect to see gross margin expansion along with operating margin expansion both because our faster growing businesses are also our higher margin businesses on the software side as well as on medical and the impact from Sunquest.
So probably not quite as much on gross margin as were expecting on EBITDA margin but both of them we expect to be up in 13.
Okay.
And then on Neptune again Brian its still been a pretty strong couple of years.
Is there any ramp-down in sales and projects outside of the one that you lost and what are expectations for the industry and then with Neptune relative to the industry in 2013?  And do you expect more people to gomaybe even shift to the composite? Well I think as far as the situation is youre going to getwe would get a disproportionate amount of new meters associated with housing starts so as housing starts are picking up so are our sales through distribution in the U.S.
water market.
So we expect pretty decent growth there certainly high single digits maybe more; and so other people who have lower shares than we do are likely to get some corresponding benefit in their business.
I think its a generally favorable or more favorable market than it has been for replacement water meters and for just installs for (inaudible).
When it comes to the rest of the world thats an entirely different story and our products really dont play in anything other than the high pressure water market.
Composite meters nobodys had great success with those over time.
We dont see any shifts to that at all except in people who come in who dont know the industry dont know the products and think everything is uniform because theyre SAP people.
They can do things that will be proven to be a mistake later and so were not really bothered by that.
Its not the first time weve lost a customer only to get them back a little bit later when they realize that value is more important than price.
<br>Okay thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Brian just apparent liquidity notwithstanding wondering how youre looking at the short to long-term acquisition pipeline how youre thinking about the range of scale and breadth and if you see any scenario where a modest share issuance would be appropriate or warranted.
Well I think were pretty reluctant to want to issue any equity.
I really just dont see the need for that.
The reason that we do acquisitions is because we have great free cash flow and when you lever that at say three times debt to EBITDA the acquired company you can really make a material difference in your growth rate and kind of in the perpetuity growth rate of the enterprise and thats what we do.
We just think thats the best way to create shareholder value.
If we wanted to increaseI mean I dont know why wed issue equity unless it was just the most incredible spectacular thing of all time and we did that in December of 2003 when we acquired Neptune and didnt have really a high quality public company balance sheet.
We did it again in December of 2004 when we acquired Neptune.
Those acquisitions represented four times trailing EBITDA of the company for heavens sakes in terms of what we had to do.
You know with trailing EBITDA with a run rate well in excess of a billion were not planning on a $4 billion deal tomorrow at noon.
So I think we can be quite satisfied with 1.5 billion-plus a year in acquisition growth so I dont think we would issue equity.
Thanks.
And then the other one would be lets go a little bit more into the bridge from the current orders rates to the EPS target for next year  very strong but had some backlog runoff in the second half.
Weve gotten some color but if we could just dive into any more qualitative around that.
Sure.
I think as we went through ournot only the planning activity that we always do but also the fourth quarter operating reviews that we go through with each of our businesses we look not only at what they actually did in the fourth quarter but their projections for the first quarter and the rest of the year and whats in their backlog whats in their pipeline of opportunities.
As we went through that we saw a number of things both on the new product introduction side but also on the projects that are currently being bid and currently in front of us not yet in backlog that give us confidence that the second half of the year well see a higher organic growth rate than what were going to see in the first half of the year.
But I think that thats going to be weighted more towardwell probably RF will be a little bit stronger than industrial for the full year basis but overall we expect to see full-year organic growth in all four of our segments.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Yes.
Brian just a couple questions.
In the energy systems business the book-to-bill in the fourth quarter was maybe a little bit softer than we typically see seasonally.
Has anything again maybe slowed there or is that just a comparison issue?  And then within that the compressor controls the acquisitions you made the smaller ones it sounds like theyre bringing software into compressor controls.
Is that the right way to think about that?  I mean are these companies bringing customers or are they bringing code?  What are these small acquisitionshow do they expand the business? Well Ill take the latter and then well shift back to the nature of the orders.
Each one of them is a little different but United Controls brought with it a very significant engine manufacturer that we were not doing business with and so that gave us a customer benefit.
It also gave us some application engineering capability with that business that supports what we do so that was good.
It also gave us some improved regional activity in some parts of the world.
Trinity Software was an entirely different concept where it had some breakthrough code to use your term.
It really has breakthrough technology thats in its infancy.
Its going to be in maybe high single digit millions but its the kind of thing that can move up quite dramatically over the next three years so were investing a lot of time in bringing our business processes to that group of people.
Cambridge is not in compressor controls.
Its in petroleum analyzer and we have some if not the best equipment in the world in analyzing different things for refineries but we dont have a lot of online capability and Cambridge brings us an opportunity to have online capability in software.
So thats an important growth venue for us.
Now on the order flow and seasonality of fourth quarter John why dont you take that? <br>Yeah sure.
In terms of the fourth quarter orders for energy they were actually in line with what we had expected.
What were seeing of course is with many of the projects that compressor controls has already completed and now its moving into field service it changes the timing of those orders.
Its more of a book-and-ship or a book and then maybe ship two or three months later when you recognize the revenue associated with field service as opposed to their larger projects which oftentimes woulddistort is probably not the right word but would affect the book-to-bill ratio in fourth quarters of prior years.
The other areas that we normally look for and did see seasonal benefits both on the instrument side for Alpha Technologies and also on our petroleum analyzer business  once again providing software algorithms and testing solutions for refineries  we did see a seasonal uptick in the fourth quarter but that was both on revenue and orders so that seasonal uptick really didnt change the book-to-bill ratio very much.
Okay I understand.
And then just a last question  in the RF tech business we talked about some pretty nice wins on the tolling and CBORD side.
This RF tech is always a little difficult to model out given the timing and the size of these projects but when you think about 13 and project out 13 in your forecast can RF tech have a double-digit growth year for 13? It can.
I dont think that thats embedded in our guidance though.
Okay can but we shouldnt time this out to the point where well get a Yeah our expectation with respect to 3 to 5% organic growth for the year like I said its a little bit more heavily weighted.
RF may be above that but were not ready to say thats going to be double-digit yet.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Although for our internal people listening we expect you to move along those lines!  With better margin huh?  Great thank you.
Good morning.
Id like to address the guidance that you announced as you set a 15.1% increase over last year and if you adjust for the higher tax rate its about 17.5% increase.
But thats less than the companys long-term average growth the 20%.
I dont want to seem ungrateful  17.5% is still pretty good.
It seems that some of that is in the first quarter because that guidance is only up 11% from last year.
Are you being too conservative here on looking at a weak economy?  Just exactly what are the assumptions behind the guidance because it isnt as strong as for example you did in 2012.
Is it possible that youre getting so big or your margins are getting so high that you cant get the same percentage increase in margins relative to the increase in sales that youve gotten in the past?  Could you address all that? Alex I think one of the factors when youre looking at our previous years growth rates of course those always include not only what we do on an organic basis but also the effect of acquisitions; and our guidance for 2013 as it always does excludes any acquisitions that we have not yet completed.
So I think that is probably going to be one of the differences you see between our guidance and the actuals as they roll in Sunquest being an example of that  of course that added both accretive earnings but more importantly accretive cash flow to us for 2012.
We would expect future acquisitions although theyre never in our guidance to be accretive from a cash basis also.
Whether they are accretive on an earnings basis is always going to be dependent upon the accounting ramifications of amortization and other things.
Right.
Well yes and when they come in the year.
Thats also true.
Its possible you could have accretive acquisitions that really wouldnt add to 2013 if they came late in the year.
That is true.
But could you address your economic assumptions and why the first quarter is only up 11%?  Because that would not includeI mean that wouldnt be because you havent added in acquisitions to the first quarter guidance because you dont have time to That is correct.
That is correct so kind of as we talked about a little bit earlier we do expect the organic sales growth to be higher in the second half based upon what were seeing from a project pipeline and execution of our existing backlog relative to the first quarter.
We also have in the first half a little bit of headwind associated with the Neptune customer that decided not to renew with us.
So those are some of the things that were seeing  a little bit tougher comp against last year where we had 8% organic growth in the first quarter of last year.
Its a little bit of a tougher comp versus what we see for Q2 Q3 and Q4 as we go forward.
Okay.
Then a follow-up  why is the tax rate up? Well Sunquest as a U.S.-based company generates most of their earnings in the United States which is the highest tax rate in the world and so those earnings come in at a marginal tax rate of probably 38 to 39%.
And then just other normal tax planning activities which is probably thewhich is definitely the smaller portion of the increase that we expect for 13.
Yeah we definitely need corporate tax reform.
Thanks.
<br>I wouldnt say protection; Id just say a level playing field.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining us and we look forward to talking to you as we finish our first quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! The Roper Industries First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
I will now turn the conference over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Kayla and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our first quarter.
Joining me this morning is: Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Jason Conley who heads up Planning and Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
In addition we have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 3.
Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on a non-GAAP basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation and on our website.
For the first quarter the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP is a fair value adjustment to acquired deferred revenue at Sunquest.
For the quarter this impact was $3.6 million to revenue and operating profit.
This adjustment represents revenue that absent our acquisition Sunquest would have recognized.
We believe showing our results on this basis provides additional insight into the ongoing and recurring results of the business.
And now if you'll please turn to Slide 3 I will turn -- sorry to Slide 4 I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John and good morning everybody.
If we look at the Q1 enterprise financial results it was an all-time record for the first quarter most level of orders highest level of sales biggest net earnings the most EBITDA and the highest operating and free cash flow.
One of the incredible things about the first quarter is that all of our margins again increased gross margins the operating margin the EBITDA margin and the net earning margins all established records for Roper.
Our orders at $794 million are particularly strong in that last year we had about $15 million out of the Neptune cancellation which of course didn't recur making that $794 million look even stronger on a comparative basis.
Revenue was $741 million and our book-to-bill was 1.07 which is well above our norm.
We have a little over $1 billion in backlog now which is up 18% over last year at this time.
Our gross margin went up 240 basis points to 57.4%.
And all 4 segments actually increased their gross margin so it's not just the benefit of higher margin of Sunquest but execution in all 4 segments.
Operating margins were up 150 basis points to 25.5%.
And our EBITDA reached $230 million in the quarter which was up 210 basis points to 31% which is a quite excellent performance for our first quarter.
Our GAAP operating cash flow was $171 million representing 23% of revenue.
Compare that $171 million to $125 million of net earnings.
The free cash flow was $160 million in the first quarter and our diluted earnings per share increased 17% to $1.27.
We felt we had really compelling margins and cash flow and then the Q1 orders will really drive our full year organic growth.
Next slide.
Here we look at the Q1 income statement.
Couple of things here.
In the orders you can see overall orders for the company were up 9% organic was up 1%.
But if you adjust for the $15 million Neptune cancellation that contract cancellation organic would have been up 3% which may explain our tone about feeling better about orders and organic growth for the balance of the year.
Revenue which was at $741 million was up 4%; organic posted down 3% but most all of that is this Neptune cancellation again it's over 2%.
And the residual was just the continuing softness in the imaging businesses that we expected.
So the core really was flat to modest growth on revenue without those 2 particular items.
Gross margin as we said before up 240 basis points to 57.4% from 55% last year with each segment increasing their margins.
Operating profit was up by $19 million on a $3 million [ph] revenue variance so our leverage was above 60%.
And that included greater than $1 million charge in deal costs we incurred in the quarter but aren't calling out as a separate item for a one-timer.
Operating margin you can see was up 150 basis points from 24% to 25.5%.
Interest was up 6% as we're paying for the interest related to the new bond offering last year and the interest costs for Sunquest.
Other expenses we had a negative experience at $2.5 million mostly FX-driven item here.
So that $2.5 million plus the $1 million on the deal cost was about a $3.5 million drag.
Fortunately we had a benefit from our tax rate with about half of that coming from the R&amp;D and other extenders from 2012.
And that gave us the net earnings of $1.27.
Next slide.
If you look at the EBITDA growth 2 years ago our trailing EBITDA at the end of the first quarter was $685 million.
Last year it was $830 million.
And this year we're already up to $950 million on a trailing basis.
No pro forma in that that's just the number.
So we're up $265 million in just 2 years.
And then if you look at our margin performance on EBITDA 2 years ago it was 27.4% on a trailing 12-month basis.
Last year it was 29%.
And this year it closes out at 31.3% and will continue to expand up 390 basis points in just 2 years.
So it's really extraordinary performance on an EBITDA and margin basis by any measure.
Next slide.
Our Q1 cash flow it's again remarkable and it continues to grow as a function of revenue.
We had $171 million of operating cash flow.
If you divide that by the net earnings you can see the conversion was 137%.
We had $160 million in free cash flow which is 22% of revenue.
And the cash conversion is at 128%.
It's really across-the-board improvement in every segment certainly a record.
You can see our cash flow -- free cash flow in the quarter at $160 million is twice what it was 2 years ago at $78 million.
And below you can see the percent of revenue.
As I said cash flow as a function of revenue continues to escalate.
2 years ago it was 12.1%; a year ago 18.5%; and this year 21.7%.
Next slide.
We'll get into the individual details a lot of moving parts here.
So let's turn to the first one which is Energy Systems &amp; Controls.
I think these are kind of in order of revenue or orders so energy system being our smallest segment now at 20%.
Here you had orders up modestly about $4 million revenue down a little bit and gross margin increased from 54.1% to 55.6% up 150 basis points.
On the items in the quarter our compressor controls business continues to capture growth.
They're benefiting from global project rollouts that had a lot of visibility too for the balance of the year and continued to increase their field engineering billable time for people.
Next point is that the lower gas rig count reduced revenue for our engine safety systems businesses and some other people that are in that category.
That was about a $3 million drag in the quarter.
And the industrial end markets were soft as it related to any instruments and pretty good on consumables.
That was another $2 million drag.
Margin expansion from the growth in the higher-margin areas and benefits from second half 2012 cost actions helped us out.
And you can see the book-to-bill for the segment was 1.08 which is quite strong.
In the second quarter we would expect relatively flat revenue in the energy systems business but higher margins.
And then in the second half of the year we see higher revenue growth with compressor controls really driving a big part of that and then more favorable comps for some of the other energy categories.
And we're getting -- starting to see what will be a ramping early adoption of some new products around sensor technology that we're introducing in control systems.
Next slide.
Here we'll look at Industrial Technology.
While revenue was down virtually the whole variance is simply the Neptune contract cancellation.
That was $15 million and revenue was down about $13 million.
So we had flattish revenue exclusive of that.
We had very strong growth in our U.S.
water meter sales which was better than expected that double-digit growth in water meter sales.
And that really offset the drag we had in our material analysis business where we had instrument sales decline somewhat with consumables being steady.
But net-net the contract cancellation wasn't able -- we weren't able to overcome that with other organic growth.
The fluid handling we had growth in certain niche markets that mitigated the gas drilling activity.
The gas drilling activity did hurt our Cornell Pump business a little bit but the other businesses were strong.
Book-to-bill was virtually flat at 0.99.
Gross margins expanded in the industrial segment even without the revenue growth.
They went from 50.6% up to 51.2% so a 60 basis point increase.
And those very few businesses that delevered did so at a very modest leverage rate.
For the second quarter we would expect similar market conditions although we will get sequential growth from the first quarter.
We still have the Neptune headwind for another quarter.
It was $15 million in Q1.
It's going to be about $12 million in Q2.
As we get into the second half that dissipates.
So we're back on a normal basis.
And you'll see better-looking ratio numbers on the growth pattern.
Fluid handling growth in directional drilling is assured.
We've got strong incoming orders and demand for products in that arena.
And the energy markets are improving very modestly.
Our material analysis comps are going to be relatively easy for us to lap so we expect to do better there.
And the Neptune headwind in the second half it eases to a single-digit number in Q3 and then 0 in Q4.
So that will help us.
And our distributor network around water meter sales is continuing to grow as housing continues stronger than it was in the past.
Next slide.
If we look at the RF Technology segment very strong performance here orders are up $36 million.
We had great segment orders led by toll and traffic where segment orders were up 18% over the prior year.
Two really important projects that we'll have delivery throughout the year but kind of tailored to the end of the year with the Florida Department of Transportation tag upgrade project and then Virginia's I-66 highway system.
We had revenue growth in toll and traffic projects in the first quarter which offset lower tag shipments which were lower than a year ago.
And project execution as we've made some considerable upgrades in the people side at TransCore certainly paying dividends as we see better operational performance.
In fact the segment overall gross margins went up from 51.8% last year to 53.9% this year so they're up 210 basis points.
We had some growth again in our freight match and iTrade U.S.
businesses on subscriber subscriptions.
And our book-to-bill you can see is exceptionally strong at 1.15.
For the remainder of the year we see this backlog really positioning us for an assured amount of organic growth in toll and traffic.
And then our CBORD cashless systems and integrated security wins which we're confident about will also drive growth.
We've just won in April a Technolog contract award for gas AMR.
This is going to be in the U.K.
It will drive improved second half performance for us.
It's a 5-year contract and the terms aren't ready to be disclosed.
But it will certainly add to our growth profile in the second half of the year.
And then our Inovonics brand businesses who make wireless sensors for security and senior care and submetering are doing dramatically better this year.
There were better in the first quarter.
And we expect them to be substantially better in the latter part of the year particularly in our senior care applications and submetering as multifamily housing continues to strengthen.
And we'll get some continued modest growth in our subscriber bases in our SaaS businesses at the freight matching and iTrade.
Next slide.
If we look at Medical &amp; Scientific Imaging a huge increase in orders up $59 million.
And of course some of that is Sunquest.
Nonetheless revenue was up 25% over the prior year and operating profit is up 46% over the prior year.
And operating margins on what used to be our most difficult segment from an OP viewpoint are up 450 basis points to 31.1%.
And our gross margins in the quarter increased by 270 basis points over last year.
So we look at the specific items.
Sunquest is on plan.
They have favorable order rates so they're ahead on orders.
We do need to increase our ability to get faster implementation processes in place which we've been talking to them about.
Because we have an opportunity to increase our growth beyond their original expectations if we can get the implementation processes to happen faster.
We continue to have very weak research markets.
And those continue to negatively impact us.
In fact in the quarter that was a $12 million headwind and it's hard to make that up.
We had a very difficult comp at Gatan because they had kind of a blowout first quarter last year.
But the core problem remains very modest activity in the camera borses [ph] with the research funding around the world.
Medical devices were a little bit soft as it related to direct sales to U.S.
hospitals but consumable sales were quite good.
So on balance that came out fine.
Our book-to-bill for the segment was 1.06.
In the second half of the year medical is going to be led by this faster uptick on the Sunquest implementation execution.
It's the only thing that wouldn't be driving greater growth.
And so we're very focused on seeing that improve.
It's not bad it's just that it could be better because we're getting a lot of new business on the adoption of software upgrades for Sunquest.
And the speed at which we can recognize that revenue is directly related to our execution capability and the implementation.
We had strength -- in the second half we're going to have strength in CIVCO's applications.
Remember that's a multimodality business.
In radiation oncology we have some new products that are coming to play so they'll add some growth in the second half.
And while the research markets remain challenging they have easier comps for scientific imaging in the second half than they did in the first half.
And then the MHA acquisition will add substantially to our growth.
And I've asked John Humphrey to talk through the nature of MHA and then I'll talk a bit about why we thought it was a great acquisition.
So John? Thank you Brian.
Next slide going to the MHA overview slide.
So talk a little bit about this acquisition which we do expect to close later in the week.
So all the regulatory approval has already been obtained on that.
So MHA is the largest provider of services and technology and a network for the alternate site health care markets.
An alternate site for those of you on the phone just means nonhospital settings.
So all the places where care is being delivered in a nonacute care nonhospital type of setting.
What they really provide is a whole suite of tools and technologies which include GPO services includes reimbursement tools software specific to pharmacy solutions and the largest network for processing and adjudicating Medicare Part D claims and they provide that for all of their customers across multiple classes of trade.
And those are delivered with the largest and most comprehensive customer service team which enables their customers to both increase revenue through getting better reimbursements and faster reimbursements and also to lower costs by being able to purchase more effectively and efficiently across the network that MHA is able to provide to them.
They do have the #1 position in all of their served niche markets which include long-term care pharmacists home infusion specialty pharmacy assisted living locations all of the places where care is being delivered in a nonhospital setting.
Next slide.
Going into a few more of the kind of facts and figures for MHA.
When we talk about it being the largest alternate site health care network this really gives a glimpse of the scale that MHA has with a customer base of about 12 000 different customers 47 000 different locations.
And they enable the purchasing volume for all of those current locations which exceeds $5 billion annually.
And MHA is able to have a share in that and that's how they're able to generate revenue.
And as I said they do process almost 35% of all Medicare Part D claims in the country with the network that they're providing for their customers.
Over 120 million annual pharmacy and drug interactions that are being analyzed and delivered and the large customer service workforce.
And that workforce is more than just sales people.
They really act as consultants that enables their customer success so they're able to run the business more effectively.
And that high degree of customer intimacy is one of the sustainable real advantages that MHA has in the marketplace.
On the right side you can see the breakdown of the customers and the end markets that they're serving.
About half of their customers are in long-term care pharmacy.
The long-term care facility that also includes assisted living centers.
And that's generally around food that's being purchased but also other things in those long-term care facilities.
The alternate site care includes such thing as specialty pharmacy home infusion respiratory therapy et cetera.
And then that other smaller slice that says technology is really the network and the other software and enabling tools that MHA is providing to its customers that allows them to run their business more effectively.
Now the end market that we see here has a number of very durable and diverse growth drivers including favorable demographic trends.
Except for the people on the phone everyone else in the country is getting a little older.
And these alternate site care markets are in low-cost care setting.
So as more care is being delivered outside of the hospital setting that's a favorable trend that's impacting this end market.
And we continue to expect to see market share gains based upon the value the scale that MHA has in the classes of trade that they serve and the strong customer service high intimacy consulting type of sales process that they have.
And this niche market still provides what we think are very complementary acquisition opportunities.
MHA has done a few of those in their history and we would expect to continue that process as we go forward.
So there's a couple of slides about MHA who they are who they serve and what they provide.
And I'll turn it back over to Brian to talk a little bit about the acquisition and how it fits.
Thanks John.
People always ask us about what our criteria for acquisitions are.
And we -- virtually every presentation we will tell you that these are the things that we're looking at.
And just as a reminder these are the things we look at.
So if you look at the first item we want our businesses to be asset-light.
Many people report EBITDA and they don't even take the time to tell you what the EBITDA minus CapEx is.
And they'll talk about depreciation and CapEx as though it's unimportant.
We think asset velocity is extremely important.
So in the case of MHA they have no inventory.
That would be 0 nada.
And they have negative working capital.
So the cash-on-cash growth out of MHA is really quite substantial because it's going to throw off additional cash that we're going to be able to use to acquire companies to augment its own growth.
We're going to -- we always want to focus on market structure and driving forces.
We invested more money and diligence on MHA than any deal we've ever had with 3 different outside people approaching this from very different directions.
And we've been looking at this company for quite a long time waiting to pull the trigger based on a variety of factors.
And this research was critically important to us to just see how secure their strategy is and that there aren't externalities that could come out of the woodwork that would be difficult for us.
On customer intimacy and technology we want those to drive the purchase decision and we were very impressed.
When John talks about the consulting nature these people virtually prepare for their clients a 3-ring binder that they go through to kind of tell them how they're performing and where they can make decisions that will add to their margins.
And these guys that they're serving work on such slim margins that a basis point change could be the difference between whether they're cash-positive or cash-negative.
Management continuity we always value.
And in this case the entire team is coming along.
Mike Sicilian is going to run this business.
I and his team are on board.
In fact as we say we like to have incentives linked to commitments from the team.
And in this case we have a 3-year forward execution goals in place already with Mike's team.
We like to still focus on the cubby [ph] idea of preserving core values and stimulating progress.
And in this case the core values at MHA are really outstanding.
They have great people and they provide great service.
But we're going to be able to get them access to customers and complementary people that we currently do business with in our software activity both in RF and in medical which should be quite helpful to Mike as he continues to grow his business.
And then grow what you buy.
Well one of the immediate benefits you get from our ownership is that MHA customers can have much better confidence now because they have a strong company behind it instead of it being a private equity situation.
Customers don't have to worry about who might own it in the future and whether that's in or not in their best interest.
And they can really focus now on executing long-range strategies knowing that they have a permanent home.
And they really are both from a cultural viewpoint and end market viewpoint a great addition to our medical family.
Next slide.
So here we take a look at the 2013 guidance.
Next slide.
The full year non-GAAP DEPS guidance we're increasing from $5.60 on the low range to $5.76 and from $5.82 on the top to $5.94.
That really comes about -- we have $0.05 of negative currency using our 3/31 currency versus what we said at 12/31.
So that's a negative $0.05.
And then we have a positive $0.14 on the low end for MHA and a positive $0.17 on the high end.
We raised the low end higher because really the quality of our orders and delivery gives us very little doubt about the low end compared to where we were at the beginning of the year when we had the $5.60.
Tax rate for the rest of the year unfortunately it's going to be in this 31% category.
MHA is a high tax base business as is Sunquest.
Both those continue to grow and they add several basis points to our tax rate.
Sales guidance we said at the beginning of the year we thought we could do somewhere between 8% and 10% of revenue with about 5% of that coming from Sunquest meaning about 3% to 5% in organic.
And we don't see any reason we can't still do the 3% to 5% organic.
So we're raising our sales guidance to 11% to 13% for the year with some of that coming from MHA.
And I think that's -- should really -- we're just quite comfortable with those numbers despite a little softness in the first quarter.
And I think if you look at the numbers without remembering that you had a $15 million divot from the contract cancellation in the first quarter and a $12 million divot in the second you might think it's softer than it is.
Q2 non-GAAP DEPS is going to be $1.26 to $1.30.
The only way that would improve is if some of these projects for the second half moved into the second quarter.
But we don't have any reason to believe they will but they could.
We're going to have a much stronger Q3 and Q4.
A little bit more EPS coming in the second half of the year from a linearity viewpoint than normal but that's due to the nature of the things that have happened in the first half of the year in our acquisitions.
For our full year the GAAP operating cash flow we've raised the guidance to exceed $800 million.
And that's fairly prestigious cash flow we would say.
And then we are reminding people in our press release in here that all of the MHA items will be non-GAAP.
Next slide.
Here if we look at the Q1 summary then we really have had compelling results on all the margins the cash flow.
The niche markets continued to separate Roper from any of these traditional or perceived peers that people used to talk about for Roper.
For us it's always frustrating.
Some guy "It's a machinery company." My goodness it's certainly not a machinery company it's an selectable products company.
We don't have a single business that's in the NAICS [ph] code electrical products.
I mean this is a diversified growth company getting more diversified with each acquisition with the biggest piece of our activity now centered around medical and radio frequency and software technologies.
We've achieved record first quarter results in all of these different categories.
Our book-to-bill was 1.07 with a backlog up 18% to $1 billion.
Our gross margin as we said was up 240 basis points to 57.4% and all 4 segments were up.
Operating margin up 150 basis points; EBITDA up 210 basis points to $230 million; and operating cash flow coming in at 23% of revenue; and free cash flow at 22% of revenue with 128% cash conversion.
MHA will close this week.
With any luck it will close on May 1.
And we're really now positioned to capture organic growth for the rest of the year.
And with that we'd like to open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Deane Dray with Citi.
Research Division</strong> For MHA maybe some additional color on their mix some sense of how or what percent of their contracts are exclusive.
And maybe talk a bit about how much of the revenue comes from performance contracts and how they've done against those historically.
Yes.
So none of their contracts are performance-based.
Most of the things you're talking about this idea of exclusivity is more of acute care hospital type of GPO -- I mean very little as far as MHA's contracts with their customers are exclusive and none of them are performance-based.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brian I was hoping you can expand on -- and maybe this is just the terminology.
But on Sunquest when you talked about you're looking for faster implementation is this -- are you talking about integration new software rollouts? Or just if you could expand on that point.
Yes.
The integration is fine.
It's just a world-class organization and we've had nothing but a marvelous time working with the Sunquest people.
But the adoption of the software upgrades that they're getting is occurring at a faster pace I think than they expected.
And as a result their ability to execute against those and get the implementation needs to improve.
And they're making some structural changes around people and who's driving what so that they can get better focus on that because we could actually escalate their growth if we can get out there to get those new customers onboard.
It's a customer integration not a Roper to Sunquest integration question.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify on that what is the growth rate that you're expecting from Sunquest if you factor in these new software upgrades? I think we're expecting it to grow at sort of high single-digits.
Research Division</strong> And what type of margins that you've been -- you're getting out of the blocks? I'd say they're maybe twice ours.
And we will take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on MHA and then I have another question.
John or Brian can you talk about the addressable market size for MHA the competitive environment whether you see any disruptive technologies out there to what MHA has? We see a lot of disruptive technologies and saw them all during our diligence process.
I mean they have a very high share and particularly in the long-term care pharmacy space yes well north of 50% there.
But it's still -- they have the largest share also in the long-term care facilities around food purchasing but that's a relatively small share.
So there's still quite a bit of headroom to grow in the long-term care facility and assisted living areas.
And then we just see the positive drivers associated with demographic trends and more care being delivered in nonhospital settings as population ages.
So those are positive benefits.
And then those share gains particularly on the LTCF side of their business are things that we think will drive their growth going forward.
I think Matt that John means that the disruptors that he sees are at MHA which is...
Yes that is what I meant.
We're seeing a pretty clear pathway of growth there.
And we're enabling a lot of people to be successful in a marketplace that probably wouldn't be able to survive without the productivity that MHA allows them to deliver.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then my for my follow-up just Brian can help fill in the blanks a little bit on the organic growth forecast? You start out minus 3%.
It sounds to me like you weren't specific but the second quarter is maybe relatively flattish.
That really does imply a pretty big finish to the year.
Can you just sort of help bridge how Roper gets there? Sure.
I mean yes you're right as far as the math and the way that it rolls out.
So with kind of down 3% in the first quarter we're expecting second quarter to be up kind of in the low single-digit range on an organic basis 1% 2% 3%.
And then the back half is in the high single-digit range driven by the orders that we received in the first quarter.
So that provides a nice backlog and contracts and projects to execute against in the RF segment.
And then just some modestly improving areas some new product introductions and frankly a little bit of easier comps as we get toward Q3 and Q4 in some of the imaging and industrial segments.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions gents.
Just again on MHA is that $95 million EBITDA number inclusive of the D&amp;A that gets created by your acquisition of the company? Or is that its own underlying EBITDA? It's actually both.
So we will have incremental amortization obviously of the intangibles upon acquisition.
But the earnings before that amortization and interest in other things is consistent between our ownership and theirs.
And just to clarify that $95 million is under the first 12 months of our ownership not for the calendar year of '13.
LLC</strong> So you're saying the additional DA created by your acquisition doesn't -- isn't significant relative to that $95 million number? Right.
Yes.
So we've got the $95 million of EBITDA.
And then we're right now estimating that the amortization on an annual basis will be something around $25 million.
LLC</strong> And that's included in the $95 million? Right.
Well it's actually excluded from the $95 million so the $95 million is before the amortization.
So if you add any amortization it comes down to $75 million or $70 million.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And just trying to ballpark the revenues of the business I guess at the midpoint of your revenue range is you've raised revenues by 3 percentage points which is $90 million or so for a partial year.
You've got some FX headwinds and other things going on.
But we're talking about a business that's I don't know $130 million $150 million in revenues.
Is that the right ballpark? Yes.
That's a fair assessment.
LLC</strong> And then finally I was just wondering if you could give us a little more detail on how the deal pipeline looks now.
This was obviously a very significant deal with the pipeline still active.
Should we expect anything else this year of this size? Any general color would be appreciated.
Well I think a couple of years ago we said we already knew where the next $5 billion of investment would be.
It's just that you never know whether you're going to close the gap or things work out.
In this case having done Sunquest at $1.4 billion in August and MHA at $1 billion this month at $2.5 billion we're sort of halfway there.
We're hoping that things that we would like to do are still going to be available to us over the next 2 or 3 years.
So I don't think there's any question.
We've still got another $2.5 billion or $3 billion to go.
But I don't think much of that would be this year.
And we will take our next question from Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that organic growth question from earlier clearly the book-to-bill was strong this quarter 1.07.
What kind of confidence and visibility do you have into that back half of the year growth forecast? And then are there any specific areas where you have concerns in the back half of the year given what you've seen and what has been a relatively slower growth environment this quarter? Yes.
That's a really good question.
So the areas that we have the best visibility into are the ones where we also had some of the best order growth this quarter.
So in the RF segment which has a little bit longer lead time between order receipt and revenue and project execution so that's the area that I would say that we probably have the highest degree of confidence in because most of what we're going to be shipping out and delivering in the back half is largely in backlog already today.
And then as we kind of step away from that and see that one of the areas where we have a little bit less visibility because we're faster between order to delivery those areas are more in our industrial and energy markets.
And so we have a number of things that are going on there.
Our compressor controls is very similar to RF in terms of its backlog and visibility.
But some of the other areas there it's not unusual to have a order to revenue cycle that would be measured in weeks not months.
But we do have visibility in terms of the new products that we're introducing and what we expect the uptake rate to be there.
But I wouldn't say that our view on the second half as we stand here today is any different than our view would have been on the second half as we stood here at this time last year.
So we have similar visibility today as we would at any other time as we look 6 to 9 months out.
And that kind of tries to give some sense of where we have better visibility and things that still have to happen in order to achieve our earnings guidance for the year.
Let me just add to that Joe that the -- our book and ship businesses actually did quite fine.
And our book and ship businesses are motoring along.
What we wanted to see and we were fortunate to have it occur is that these longer lead time businesses which really are compressor control and our toll and traffic businesses in some cases CBORD projects all are coming in favorably now.
That's where -- there was more risk in those things for the year than there are in some of these book and ship businesses.
And our bellwethers that would worry us that would say there's some weakness -- are seeing some of that on the instrument side that's CapEx-related but not anything on the service and parts and consumable side.
So we -- that's the reason we were willing to stick with the organic guidance we had here when we raised our overall sales to 11% to 13% for the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful color guys.
I guess one follow-up is given that we have had a little bit of a slower growth environment has there been any adjustments that you've had to make to your portfolio either adjusting the cost structure in any way to try to navigate through these relatively uncertain paths? Or has the portfolio essentially been -- remained intact over the past quarter or 2? Well in terms of the portfolio meaning the businesses they've remained intact.
We haven't really done anything about exiting a category.
We did a very modest amount of restructuring in the third quarter of last year and even a little less in the fourth quarter.
Most of that was in the energy business which is why energy's first quarter had higher margins and why we're seeing they'll have still higher margins again sequentially in the second quarter.
Those businesses that were down and they were only a few the big down is just this contract cancellation that -- going through the pipeline here.
And so the others aren't down all that much.
Where they are down they're deleveraging at about 30% with gross margins at 50%.
So that would tell you that their costs are quite fine in terms of being in line.
And since we don't have a lot of heavy assets if we had to make an adjustment we can be very nimble compared to most other people because most of our assets go home at night.
We'll take our next question from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So if we're talking about high single-digits in the second half would it be fair to be thinking about RF as double-digits? Or presumably somewhere there's low double-digits in there and just wondering if we could go a little deeper into any such component.
Yes.
It would be safe to say that RF will lead the organic growth profile by a wide margin.
You'll get -- you'll struggle to get past mid-digits in industrial and you'll get high single-digits in energy and medical and double-digits in RF.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the medical high single organic can -- what's at the forefront of that? Is there any research improvement or budget flush that you're kind of putting into that? It's all relative.
That's true.
It is just relative.
The situation there is you do have easier comps for the research market businesses.
But we're not expecting anything great out of those.
It's just a little better.
And they did have a weaker Q1.
And what really happens in the medical segment is in the fourth quarter Sunquest becomes organic.
So we acquired it in August so it's finally going to lap itself and it will drive some additional growth in that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just overall in the quarter versus where you came into it what was the 1 or 2 biggest surprises? I think even though we're down 3% organically it's really all just this contract situation getting rid of that.
And the imaging which we expected to be soft I think we were generally encouraged that the consumption stuff with consumables in those businesses that were weaker with instruments was as strong as it was.
So it's not suggesting that people are slowing down their activity but maybe postponing their purchases.
Our stuff tends to be above MRO and below capital spending.
But it's easy to defer the instrument purchases for a period of time.
We'll take our next question from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Looking at -- Brian can you say -- or John after MHA what does the balance sheet look like and what's your capacity after it closes? You mean our balance sheet not MHA's balance sheet? Yes correct.
So on a post-close basis I mean obviously we'll be borrowing -- a substantial portion of our $1 billion will be borrowed under the revolver.
And then that will put us kind of at a debt to EBITDA level of somewhere in the 2.5 2.6 range very consistent with our existing ratings and with our long-term commitment to continue to be an investment grade-rated company.
So I don't really see an awful lot of pressure there.
And then also you see we did raise our operating cash flow guidance for the year up to $800 million.
So with the vast majority of that being in the U.S.
we'll use that to pay down debt through the year and continue to build capacity with growing EBITDA to continue to do what we've been doing for the past 5 10 years as well.
Yes.
I don't doubt that.
I guess it's more -- what will be left in the revolver and how much cash will you have left? So it is a $1.5 billion revolver and this will -- if all of this is drawn so it'd be $1 billion.
So we still have $500 million available under the revolver plus the cash that we'll generate through the year.
Okay.
So you're not drawing down your cash balance much at all it's all in the revolver? That's a fair assessment yes.
Okay.
And then looking at the medical and scientific it looks like -- did research decline double-digits? Is that kind of what we're looking at here? That's correct.
If you call $12 million on its base the answer is yes.
Down double-digits last year and they're continuing their trend.
They were down double-digits last year as well? They were.
Yes.
Okay.
So then with the rest of medical outside of Sunquest was it roughly flat? It sounds like that was certainly below...
All of medical is the duck on the water right? So everything looks fine.
But the feet are moving fast so there are different product lines that are doing better than others.
Anything that has consumables with it is still doing really well.
Some of the product businesses are more mixed.
So you've got from negative single-digits to modest growth.
We've got some new products that are coming on board so we feel on balance pretty decent about the medical device side of the business.
Okay.
And finally can you give us an idea of the size of the orders in the toll and traffic in Florida and Virginia if you can? I don't know if we can do that.
Let me check.
And if we have approval to give any color on the size of those contract wins then I'll be able to get back in touch with you.
And we'll take our next question from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on MHA a follow-up here.
Can you just give us a feel for what the purchased volume that MHA has handled -- what the growth rate been there in the last say 3 years? And then also what percentage of MHA's revenue comes from an administrative fee on that? So the majority -- in fact the vast majority of their revenue is an administrative fee on that purchase volume.
And that purchase volume has -- there are a couple of different parts to that.
You've got the long-term care pharmacy side where the overall purchase volume has probably been flat over the past couple of years primarily because of some branded drugs that have gone to generic kind of that big change particularly around one drug called SEROQUEL happened last year.
So that change over the last couple of years has impacted the pharmacy side.
On the long-term care facility side where most of the purchases are around food that's been growing at a single-digit -- a mid-single-digit rate on the overall purchase.
But MHA has been growing faster than that due to share gains.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a deferred revenue component with MHA? Will there be? There will not be a deferred revenue component no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question.
On the RF tech side of the business given the growth in the second half will come off of some project work primarily in tolling would you expect that the EBIT margin for RF -- or excuse me yes for industrial tech -- or excuse me for RF will work higher on that project-driven revenue than it is in the first quarter? You mean the project-driven revenue at RF? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So RF will be driven in the second half by these projects in Virginia.
I know you have one in California also the projects at CBORD.
But will the EBIT margin in RF tech work higher in the second half? Is there leverage there? Or is the project revenue going to come in at the same general EBIT level? There's 2 kinds of leverage here right? So one as we said one of the reasons that we did better in the first quarter in RF is the quality of the project execution that they have which is service-related.
The second is the margin on product sold.
So when you look at a particular situation like Florida has a lot of tag sales so the margins associated with the Florida order will be higher than the Virginia order where the Virginia order has more labor content which is really almost design and build if you will.
So you're not going to have huge margins there but you do have spread variances on your execution.
And I would say not long ago we put a new President in at TransCore that's a career expert.
Tracy Marks is doing an incredible job.
And he's really built a very fine team.
We've kind of done some structural things to get more attention on contract execution and that's starting to pay benefits.
So I think we'll see in the second half better leverage on contracts than we enjoyed in the last couple of years.
But they still will be the lowest-margin businesses we have just because there's so much labor content in them that they're not high-margin businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
So again off the first quarter EBIT of say 27% for RF tech we'll still get some volume leverage off of that project work and that should -- our EBIT margin should work higher for the balance of the year? Time will tell.
We'll be able to talk more clearly about that after we have the third and fourth quarter.
But I do want to follow up on one earlier question Rick I'm sorry.
So just to your question around deferred revenue the answer is no.
There's not really a deferred revenue component for MHA.
There will be some noise with respect to how purchase accounting treats some of the revenue that MHA has.
That's why our guidance is on a non-GAAP basis.
We're going to be adding some of that revenue back that will not be recognized due to purchase accounting rules.
And after we close on the business we'll be able to know exactly how much that is and talk more clearly and have some additional schedules available at the second quarter close that will describe that adjustment in detail.
We'll take our next question from John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
First on the book-to-bill obviously very strong in RF.
I'm assuming as revenue goes up maybe book-to-bill qualitatively goes down this year.
Can you talk to that? And then the second one within industrial tech you talked about double-digit metering gains.
Is that competitive? Or do you think that's part of the -- with Elster going away? Or do you think that's part of the market coming back in housing et cetera? From what we've heard from competitors they didn't do very well first quarter and we did quite well.
So people will have to sort out whatever they think the forces at work are.
I don't know I just know that we continue to grow with the exception of the contract cancellation and have double-digit growth in the United States in water meters.
And then with your respect to your other question John.
So the book-to-bill ratio at 1.15 for the segment I mean that is above our norm.
We would expect that over time to trend to closer to 1.
And it will be based upon the timing of project orders in the RF segment as we go into the second half.
Obviously as some of these orders that we just received ship out in the third and fourth quarter those will start to bring that ratio back down.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We will now return the call back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining us and we do look forward to talking to you at the end of the second quarter as well.
[indiscernible] The Roper Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
And thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our second quarter.
Joining me this morning is: Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci Director of FP&amp;A and Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
If you please turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Next slide.
Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation which is available on our website.
For the second quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted consist of these 3 discrete items.
First a fair value adjustment to acquired deferred revenue at Sunquest.
For the quarter this impact was $2.4 million to revenue and operating profit.
This adjustment represents revenue that absent our acquisition Sunquest would have recognized.
Second a fair value adjustment to revenue for MHA totaling $18.5 million.
Again this represents revenue that absent our acquisition MHA would have recognized.
Finally we included in our press release a one-time charge related to a vendor-supplied component that did not meet our quality standards.
This component is used in our Hansen business Hansen which provides refrigeration valves for cold storage applications.
The $9.1 million charge in the quarter is our accrual for the estimated cost of this replacement program and any expected recovery from our supplier will be tracked and reported in the same way as we continue throughout the year.
We believe showing our results on this adjusted basis provides additional insight into the ongoing and recurring result of the business.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 3 I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John.
Good morning everybody.
So we'll start off with the Q2 results at the next slide.
On the enterprise financial results for the second quarter it was a record quarter for Roper.
We had record orders we had record backlog record revenue record net earnings and record EBITDA.
So orders for the quarter were $835 million and revenue came in at $805 million representing a book-to-bill of 1.04.
The gross margin was up 300 basis points to 57.9% really spectacular results.
And all 4 of the segments expanded their gross margins so it wasn't just a benefit of the MHA acquisition.
EBITDA in the quarter was up 21% to $259 million so we're tracking at greater than $1 billion of EBITDA now.
Our EBITDA margin increased 270 basis points in the quarter to 32.2%.
And I should really remind everybody that we have very little depreciation so it's really all about intangible amortization that's noncash.
And so our intangible amortization is now forecasted to be about $150 million for the year all of our amortization whereas depreciation is more like in the low 40s and CapEx will be similar to that.
Our GAAP operating cash flow was up 17% to $140 million and our diluted earnings per share were up 14% to $1.31.
We really thought that was a very compelling performance in a second quarter.
Next slide.
If we look at the income statement here you'll see that comparison of orders up $835 million against $763 million last year.
On the revenue basis the revenue was at $805 million versus $725 million so up $80 million or 11%.
1% of that was organic and when we get to industrial I'll comment on the fact that we still have that Neptune customer transition going on or organic would've been a little over 2% for the enterprise.
Our gross profit soared from 54.9% to 57.9% up those 300 basis points.
Operating income reached $210 million in the quarter so that margin for operating income went from 24.7% to 26.1%.
And of course if you looked at that on an operating margin plus noncash amortization the number would be well above 30%.
That operating performance includes the cost of our MHA deal expenses which we've taken against normalized earnings.
That would've added back another $0.01 or more.
Interest expense went up in the quarter of course with the paying for MHA's interest cost.
So we'll cover more around that on the balance sheet.
And then the tax rate increased 150 basis points.
Last year's second quarter was 29.6%; this is 31.1%.
So that created a $0.03 headwind in reported earnings here.
Notwithstanding that $0.03 on tax and our $0.01 on MHA we still reported $1.31 for DEPS.
Next slide.
Here if we look at our EBITDA growth continuing I want to talk a bit about leverage here.
When you look at the slide our trailing 12 months EBITDA ending in the second quarter of 2011 was $739 million.
This year our trailing 12 months EBITDA is $995 million.
So in just 2 years we've added $256 million of EBITDA and our margins have expanded tremendously.
Two years ago our trailing EBITDA margin was 28.1% as you can see on the slide.
This year it's 32% so we're up 390 basis points on our EBITDA margin.
Our gross margins in 2011 those trailing 12-month number were 54%.
In 2012 they went up to 54.6%.
And this year on a trailing basis our gross margin is now 57.3%.
If you look at the leverage then we have $995 million of EBITDA against a trailing 12-month revenue number of $3 112 000 000 and you compare that to the 2011 trailing 12-month revenue of $2 630 000 000.
So our sales in that 2-year period are up $482 million.
Our EBITDA increased from $739 million to $995 million so it's up $256 million.
And our leverage on sales to EBITDA is 53.1% in that 2-year period.
So we still continue to drive outstanding leverage with every new dollar of incremental revenue.
Next slide.
If you look at the cash flow you'll see cash flow in the first half of the year reached $311 million.
That represented 20%.
The operating cash flow is 20% of our revenue.
Cash flow in the second quarter was up $140 million on an operating cash flow basis 17% above last year.
Our free cash flow was $129 million up 19% over last year.
And the strength of this gross margins and our cash flow performance gives us the confidence to say we're still on track for $800 million or more of full year operating cash flow.
Second -- next slide.
So here if we look at the balance sheet you'll see cash at the end of the second quarter was $375 million.
Our undrawn revolver was all the way back up to $1 458 000 000 out of the $1.5 billion that we have access to so lots of repayment.
We also of course issued these $800 million notes.
But when you look at that undrawn revolver at $1 458 000 000 we'd want to note that we have a $500 million bond that comes due on August 15.
So that'll be paid out of the revolver still leaving us well over $1 billion of investable opportunity over the next several months or into the first part of next year.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA at $995 million creates these debt stats you see below.
Gross debt is $2 758 000 000.
And of course net debt being substantially less than that.
The net debt to EBITDA is 2.4x so we are really positioned to do another $1 billion transaction by the first part of next year.
Pipeline continues to be very good.
We see lots of opportunities.
And we remain disciplined around what we're going to deploy and when we're going to do that.
Next slide.
If we get into the very specific segment details next slide we'll start with Energy Systems &amp; Controls here on Slide 11.
Compressor Controls had another very good quarter in the second quarter.
The bolt-on acquisitions we did to them some time ago United Controls and Trinity are starting to do a little bit better.
A downside was Zetec's nuclear business was down really significantly.
There were 4 nuclear plants in the quarter that announced they're not going to restart.
And one of those San Onofre was a very significant revenue stream for us planned for the balance of the year and also Kewaunee and Palisades both announced in May.
So we look at the steam gen portion of Zetec for the balance of the year having a really dramatic headwind somewhere as much as -- it could reach $10 million versus last year's numbers.
We also saw weakness in European tire manufacturing business that's primarily supported by our Alpha instrumentation company although strength in many other areas for them.
We had very strong margin performance due to growth in the higher-margin areas of the business and cost actions that were taken early in energy that have very quick paybacks.
If we look at EBITDA performance here you can see EBITDA for the quarter was 30.2%.
That was up 100 basis points over the second quarter of last year and orders were up modestly even despite the difficulty at Zetec.
For the second half of the year we're starting to see Compressor Control bid projects on the rise again.
We had felt those were a little softer than we would've expected coming into the year but boy that's no longer the case and in fact we have a very full agenda on bids.
We expect double-digit growth in the oil and gas portions of our energy business.
And that's going to get led primarily by PAC's refinery instrumentation business and by Compressor Controls and United Controls.
We think we'll have a strong seasonal fourth quarter.
Frequently we do in these businesses and there's no signs that that's not going to occur this year.
We have the headwinds that I mentioned on the nuclear end markets that are going to impact the growth or sort of pull down or mask the core growth of everything else because of the steam generation falloff.
But we do have better adoption in our industrial activity around sensors and control systems that we've developed for those markets so we still expect a strong second half of the year in energy.
Next slide.
In Industrial Technology here we had orders up 200 -- or up to $205 million.
Revenue while it's reported down 3% if you exclude the Neptune customer transition from the segment the segment would've been up over 2% organically instead of showing down 3%.
We had more than a $10 million -- $1 million drag in Q2 for this Neptune transition which will be largely behind us soon in the second half of the year.
We think that's only about a $5 million drag.
So this was the last big quarter for that.
Materials analysis in the businesses continued to be modestly lower but the consumables were steady.
So we think we're in pretty good shape in that area.
Our fluid handling business continues to do exceptionally well.
We get share gains in the oil and gas industry and the new products that we have are doing very well.
And we've had great margin performance.
The EBITDA in Industrial Technology was 32.9% for the quarter.
And OP margin as you can see here is 30.2%.
So it's truly remarkable.
Book-to-bill was fine at 1.04.
But in June sort of later in the month we got into a discovery around this problem at Hansen which is really a vendor problem of what's painfully a $2 part.
And the root cause of this is clearly a vendor using the wrong protective spray on this part.
To remedy it and be really fair to all our customers we really feel we want to replace those installs that occurred during a multi-month period.
We've had discussions with the vendor.
The vendor is not well-capitalized.
There are things we have to do with that vendor.
But no matter what we have to take care of customers in this case.
And it's really the time to sort of apologize to our Hansen customers.
We really have a dominant position in the refrigeration valve business.
Hansen has been around for over 25 years.
They've been a consistent growth provider for our fluid handling business.
They've got a great team but they've got a vendor who proved unreliable and all we can do is what we're going to do which is way beyond the warranty expectation to replace these items which unfortunately involved labor on the part of our dealer network and we are internally thankful for the work they're doing.
In the second half of the year as we said the Neptune headwind kind of goes away.
It's about a $5 million drag so that'll make everything look better.
And strength in the U.S.
homebuilding we think will still be quite fine which gives us more new housing starts means more water meters.
We see broad-based fluid handling growth in the industrial and agricultural municipal and oil and gas arenas.
We've got the Texas expansion for Roper Pump moving into a new facility that's on track.
We expect it to up and producing in the first quarter of 2014.
And that's going to drive additional growth for us in 2014 with those new products we have that are used in the shale gas drilling opportunity.
But we do have this disruption in the refrigeration valve business of Hansen which will be a little bit a drag on the Industrial Technology's reported numbers.
Next slide.
We look at the RF Technology business.
Here year-to-date this business orders are up 10% over the prior year.
Second quarter was down a bit but that's because last year we had an extraordinary second quarter for toll and traffic which booked the Houston project.
And the result of that is they had nearly 1/3 of their full year orders hit in the second quarter last year.
So it's just a difficult comparison.
But first half of the year is up 10% backlog is terrific.
We had high single-digit growth in our software businesses that were led really by education and transportation end markets.
Toll and traffic was led by the Houston project which is well underway.
We had really terrific growth from our wireless sensor business Inovonics and Mark Jarman and his team in Boulder have done a remarkable job in getting that thing turned around and rebounding nicely.
Now they're getting the benefit of course of submetering for apartment buildings.
They get the senior care growth and the security products that we distribute.
So that's had a very nice bounce for us.
Book-to-bill in the quarter was 1.08.
The backlog in RF Technology is now up 11% since the end of last year.
That takes us then into the second half next year with a pretty -- or this year with a strong opportunity.
The toll and traffic projects are going to drive significant revenue growth in the second half.
Texas is on track Virginia is starting up and on track for performing.
Our Florida tag upgrade is underway but it's ramped up much more slowly than was expected.
And that's resulted in us moving some earnings into the fourth quarter that we would've originally expected in the third quarter.
And in fact some of that could slop over into 2014 still gives us the strong year performance on the Florida tag upgrade but does hurt the third quarter.
Our continued subscriber base growth in the SaaS businesses continues to be at mid- to high single-digits.
We don't see any changes there.
The segment's definitely positioned for double-digit growth in the second half of the year.
Next slide.
If you look at Medical &amp; Scientific Imaging which of course is now our largest segment and for the second half of the year that will really be true.
Just a lot to say about this segment.
The MHA acquisition really becomes transformational for us when you put MHA and Sunquest together.
You can look at this OP margin and table; the OP margin in the second quarter was 29.9%.
Now that's OP and it includes intangible amortization so the EBITDA is much higher.
That OP margin is up 630 basis points over the same period last year.
And revenue up 52% and OP 92% is just a reflection of the acquisitions.
When we look at what's happened at scientific [ph] imaging a year ago it was over 40% of the segment's reported revenue.
And this year it's not even reaching 30% here.
So it's just over 1/4 of the revenue in the segment in the second quarter.
And that just becomes transformational in all of our numbers.
You see book-to-bill at 1 and that's nothing to be alarmed about because again the model has changed.
With Sunquest and MHA having dramatically higher book-and-ship within any given quarter you won't see these big fluctuations on book-to-bill here that we had in the past.
Mid-digit single -- mid-single-digit organic growth in medical we would expect to -- again it was driven in the second quarter by image-guided surgery applications.
That's both our Northern Digital and CIVCO businesses and ultrasound consumables.
And the Sunquest opportunities are finally accelerating due to our system upgrades and new modules.
We had quite a bit of new commitments for those products.
We had the continued weakness that sort of is expected in the imaging end markets.
We're not seeing any real improvement in the research markets.
They were down high single-digits and sort of flattened the organic growth in the segment which otherwise would've been mid-single-digits or above.
If we look at the second half of the year we can see sustained strength in the medical products which will again be led by our image-guided surgery applications and some new Verathon international growth which looks quite good in the second half.
We don't expect any real improvement in the scientific imaging end markets.
That would be certainly a bonus if it were there but we don't see that.
Sunquest growth becomes organic in the fourth quarter which will certainly help our organic reporting statistics.
We would expect high single-digit growth in the fourth quarter out of Sunquest maybe a little better.
MHA will add to our growth in the second half of the year.
And all the early performance that Mike and his team are delivering out of MHA just add more confidence to what they'll be able to achieve this year and in the future years going ahead.
Next slide.
Here we get to talk about the guidance.
So the next slide.
The 2013 guidance the second half will be led by those things we talked about.
It will be growth in medical from the acquisition itself and organic growth.
Organic growth in toll and traffic oil and gas and fluid handling.
We would expect the second half sequentially to be up over $225 million over the first half and up over 15% over the first half in revenue.
Our Q3 adjusted DEPS guidance is $1.40 to $1.46 with kind of mid-single-digit organic growth expected.
And we'd like for that to be a little higher but we just can't move it up we are not willing to move it up higher than that because of the Florida tags moving into the fourth quarter.
It doesn't change the full year much.
So on our full year adjusted DEPS guidance we're in at $5.72 to $5.86.
So we took $0.04 off the lower end and $0.08 off the higher $0.06 off the midpoint really driven by 2 things that we just don't see any possibility of improving: the nuclear business which is going to cost us several cents with this revenue that's no longer going to be available that was planned; and then a lack of any turnaround in the life science research market.
Full year operating cash flow though we still see it as being $800 million or more.
And part of the benefit of that is stronger organic growth certainly well above that 6% could be 8% or 9%.
In the fourth quarter it gives us a gross margin which continues to improve.
And those gross margins are going to expand in the second half that'll help bolster earnings and cash flow.
So we remain confident with this guidance at $5.72 to $5.86.
Next slide.
If you look then at the summary of how the quarter came in for the company notably we achieved record results in the second quarter certainly not the easiest economy to report record results in when you're looking at all those things orders and revenue and net earnings and EBITDA.
Our book-to-bill ratio came in well above 1 again.
We've got a $1 billion -- a little over $1 billion backlog which is up 17%.
$1 billion backlog certainly eases what we need to do in the second half to drive the guidance that we've just confirmed.
The gross margin's up 300 basis points to 57.9% with expansion in all 4 segments.
Those gross margins are significant and more importantly they're sustainable.
So we believe that's the kind of gross margin we'll be producing in the second half of the year if not better.
Our EBITDA in the quarter at $259 million represented a 270 basis point improvement to 32.2%.
When you look at sustainability remember the 12-month trailing average EBITDA is 32% so things are in a very good place for us.
Our free cash flow was up 19% to $129 million.
MHA is on board.
It's off to a great start.
We got the $800 million bond offering completed that restoked the balance sheet so that we're able to use our revolver for acquisitions going forward.
And DEPS were up 14% to $1.31.
We expect a much stronger second half.
And with that we're good for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Matt Summerville from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First with respect to Zetec Brian or John can you remind us how big that business is what sort of cost actions you're taking as this resets to what I assume will be a permanently lower level and what ultimately you think that level of revenue is? So Zetec is really a bifurcated business.
We have a business which is around sensors that uses eddy current for a variety of applications.
And then we have a business which we originally acquired which was focused on steam generation which is the fueling tower application for nuclear plants.
We've never really given any specific numbers.
But I think we've probably said it's somewhere between 12% and 15-or-so percent of the segment.
The reality is that we're looking kind of at a $10 million divot in 2013 versus 2012; might not be quite that bad because the eddy current sensor business is growing.
And so if we can get that thing to grow a little bit better it will help offset a little bit.
But we had well over $5 million of revenue and $10 million planned.
So I mean we really did not expect the closure of San Onofre.
That -- maybe reading about it there were a lot of people who didn't expect it and aren't happy about it.
San Diego is wondering how they're going to produce energy but that's a problem they have to deal with.
But thinking about next year I wouldn't make -- it's not like -- we expect the business to develop new product in new markets and make up for those problems.
So I don't -- it's not like -- I wouldn't reduce our model by $10 million in perpetuity because of what happened this year on that maybe $5 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my follow-up for CCC what are you seeing that's driving the change in bidding activity? And can you frame that up numerically at all? So the places where we're seeing a lot of bid activity it actually moves beyond.
So we have pipeline applications particularly with some technology with the United Controls.
So the UCG acquisition the bolt-on we did about 2 years ago some of that technology is able to be applied to some additional pipeline opportunities that we really didn't have technology for back when it was only CCC.
So that's been helpful.
And there's more activity on the upstream side.
So CCC has done quite a bit on the upstream side particularly on offshore platforms with control systems for compressors in those situations.
And so they're seeing more activity there.
I mean predicting win rates is always a difficult thing but there is sufficient bid activity there for us to see CCC as being somewhere between mid- and high single-digit growth for the next few years.
We'll take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Brian for the lower guidance on 2013 I think you've given a good explanation on the Zetec side.
But you mentioned also the lower life science research.
Is that in the imaging side? Or are there other businesses that are contributing to the lower outlook there? Well the research side of the business is what -- they had expected some improvement in Japan some general improvement.
We're not seeing any of that.
And so we just don't think we can include it in our thinking.
It could happen.
When we look at that midpoint guidance coming down $0.06 it's really about 1/2 or a little more 1/2 to 2/3 for Zetec.
And it's the other 1/2 is sort of the imaging thing.
We do have some OEM people on inventories that are not taking anything at all.
So that whole industry seems to be really tepid.
And there are a few products that get shipped into people that are using the imaging technology for transportation.
And that business is certainly not robust I would say.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then you've given a good explanation about the Hansen valve replacement process.
And just a couple of quick follow-ups here.
What would be the timing for -- that you'd expect to complete the replacement? And is there any provision for liabilities? Have there been any damages other than just the replacement process? Yes.
There's sort of 2 different things going on.
I mean this is really beyond our normal warranty kind of thing that we wouldn't really even have to do what we're doing.
But these are refrigeration valves that are supplemental point of safety applications in these plants in which they are.
And there are various things that could happen.
And this is one of those things that -- what happened is the vendor put on a transparent finish on these things some of which is okay many -- some of which is not okay and are eroding faster.
So in our own testing in life cycle testing we've seen some things that we didn't really like in June and finally have gotten to the bottom of it.
So in order to encourage people to make a replacement we're covering some of their installation labor and giving them a new product if they send us back proof that they've made the change-out.
So that portion of that no matter how we end up with the vendor we got reimbursed for the whole $9 million.
It's still a charge we -- I mean we're going to incur that charge.
So our obligation in our opinion was to take care of the customer and the dealer network and then secondly take the charge.
If we get all of it back or some of it back we'd exclude it from our earnings performance anyway which is why we think it's a one-time item.
Now as far as the liability we have deep liability protection if something were to happen.
But this is -- it doesn't come to the insurance clause because it's really a product defect.
No one's been hurt or injured.
There's no difficulty.
If you saw this valve it's a casting.
It's a pretty decent thing maybe some of them the size of a bowling ball.
And you've got this $2 part inside it which if you don't change it out 4 or 5 years from now -- they normally do but it might not last for 4 or 5 years.
It's something that we're just not comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That explanation is pretty clear appreciate that.
Just one last quick one for me.
For MHA what's the impact on gross margin for the segment? And on a go-forward basis how much is MHA contributing on the gross margin line? I mean I didn't -- it is clearly helping -- I don't have the exact contribution amount for MHA separate from the rest of it.
At both Sunquest and MHA come in with -- because the way their business model operates as well as because the value they provide to customers both of them come in at north of 75% gross margins because all of the value they're providing is really in the operating expense side with the technology and the customer support model the contracting arm all of the software developers in those 2 businesses.
So on a gross margin basis they come in pretty high.
Obviously on an EBITDA margin they're also above the company average as well.
But Deane I'd have to get back to you with the specifics on how much MHA helps.
But I know that even excluding MHA we had gross margin expansion in the segment.
Our next question comes from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Wondering what kind of the sensitivity is to the low end of the guidance.
It seems like you're hedging some inopportune circumstances there perhaps.
Chris I've got to say I'm not quite sure I understand the question.
I mean we always try to do our best to provide an outlook for the rest of the year that we think is balanced and balanced between both risks and opportunities that we see across the portfolio of businesses.
And that's kind of where we've come out with respect to taking a look at our guidance of $5.72 to $5.86.
We think it's pretty well-balanced on both the plus and the minus.
Chris if you just look at it it was $5.76.
We took it at $5.72 so it's $0.04.
And there's $0.06 or $0.07 in these 2 items which were unknown at the time of previous guidance which would be Zetec and the situation with the life science research.
So we've actually increased the low and net of those 2 negatives.
So I don't really see -- I don't see the point frankly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- I'm just wondering what the pro forma leverage is and if there's room to negotiate a more liberal covenant given the scale of the business now.
Well so our covenant on the -- on our credit facility on a leverage basis debt to EBITDA is 3.5x.
And given our commitment to and desire to stay an investment-grade company I don't see that 3.5x as being a constraint for us at this point.
I mean we're comfortable where we are.
We'd be comfortable going up to 3x.
And based upon the quality of whatever acquisition we'd probably be able to spike above that without touching or getting close to the covenant items.
I mean this is a credit facility that at $1.5 billion is providing us with an awful lot of liquidity and allows us to have conversations to never have a financing contingency and those things.
So it's a real powerful tool for us and frankly it's not one that we're looking to redo.
When it comes due in another 3 or 4 years we'll take a fresh look at that.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> It's actually Ryan sitting in for Jeff this morning.
Just a quick question maybe a follow-up to a comment made during -- Brian during your pitch.
You mentioned being positioned for another $1 billion worth of deals by early '14 I believe is what you said.
Can you maybe just flesh that out a little bit more talk about maybe whether it's one large one a couple smaller ones maybe just a little more detail there? Well we always prefer 1 large deal 1 is easier than 2; 2 are easier than 3.
And if we had our druthers we'd do a $1 billion a year or $1 billion and another one for $200 million or $300 million.
So it's an easy thing for us to do.
There a lot of opportunities that are in that space.
We tend -- we performed at such high gross margins and EBITDA performance things we buy are always worth a lot of money.
They don't carry massive revenue or massive fixed assets that other people buy.
But we just like the idea of a larger transaction.
I think when you get a Sunquest or an MHA just like years ago when we acquired the TransCore and Neptune you get exceptional high-quality management.
They're career-oriented people.
They've got lots of succession people lined up.
They're just far less risky than guys that are buying -- if you said "Let's buy 10 $100 million bolt-ons that I could save a turn of EBITDA " I'll leave other people with that strategy.
That's not our strategy.
We want to buy and help people grow and use our tools to asset -- drive down their assets and reallocate their investment strategies.
And that's what they do so well.
So nothing's changing in that respect.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I guess what I was getting at was is there anything in the pipeline as you see it now that we should think about one way versus the other? I don't think so.
But there are certainly things in the pipeline.
I mean you'd have a rare month here where we weren't actively engaged in a transaction with somebody.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then maybe as a follow-up wondering if you could give us a little bit more color about a couple businesses mainly what else is going on outside of the Florida tag slowdown in RF and then maybe a little bit more color on the Neptune business in general.
I mean the toll and traffic business continues to do very well for us.
They have a very strong backlog with a couple of key project wins in Houston and also Harris County which is also like Houston.
So replacing and upgrading an awful lot of their in-lane equipment.
So that's a project that we won earlier this year that we'll probably roll out over the next 3 or 4 years.
And then the Florida tag upgrade project which is important not only because of what we're able to do for Florida but it also once again demonstrates the ability that TransCore has in almost a unique fashion to be able to have customers migrate from older technology to newer technology in a very seamless way.
We have multiple protocols as technology has evolved.
And so the if you will the language that those tags and readers speak has improved over time.
And so we have the unique ability to have a multiprotocol reader which allows them to have older hard case tags as well as the newer sticker tags and a couple of other versions of those in one single seamless operating environment.
And so that's the important technology for Florida but also for other areas that might look to be able to move up the technology curve as well.
So I mean -- so those things are going extremely well.
The Virginia ITS project is underway and will start to help out in the second half as well as into the first half of next year.
So we see a lot of positive things that are on the horizon for the toll and traffic business.
We'll take our next question from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Looking at Neptune you noted that housing starts are a gain there.
I assume those replacement of installed base is using a much bigger component versus new housing starts.
Where are you at right now with Neptune? What are your expectations as far as the replacement cycle? Well Neptune has done really well if they didn't have those -- you can't give us any forgiveness for losing one customer.
But without that Neptune was up over 10% in the second quarter.
So we're tracking to very very very solid performance of Neptune.
And we expect that they're going to perform well in the second half of the year once we get rid of this sort of measurement [ph] transition with that customer.
So I think that's fine.
The housing starts we have such a big share of water meters in North America.
I mean if you have 30% 40% share and you [indiscernible] the housing starts where are those starts? Most of them are not in Bergen County [ph].
Most of these housing starts are in the south and the Southeast or the far west we're very important.
Anytime you're digging water meter pits we have a very high share of that market.
And that's what new construction looks like in most of the world when you're at or below the cost line.
So it doesn't take much in the way those to help a lot.
Now the other thing that happens is if you have an increase in housing starts the normalized activity for replacement sometimes because of labor shortages and the municipal water facilities gets postponed a little bit while they're doing the activity around the new starts.
So the 2 -- it's not necessarily one is unrelated to the other a little bit.
But net-net if you were to ask us if it would've been up 10% Neptune excluding the customer loss in the second quarter we would've probably said "Well it'd be difficult but we achieved it." And you're still expecting a strong tailwind in the back half obviously? Absolutely we are.
Okay.
And then moving on to your oil and gas exposure.
Is most of that share gains? Or can you discuss that a little bit? You seem to be doing better than underlying -- of other component suppliers in oil and gas.
Is that...
Yes there's a couple -- so our Roper Pump business which actually reports in industrial and non-energy has become largely an energy business frankly.
That business has directional drilling products which are a best-of-class in certain kinds of applications.
And we're starting a new facility in Texas to take advantage of larger-diameter drilling mechanisms that we have developed.
And we have a very special heat-resistant operation which is unique.
And really vendors are anxious to get us up and moving so they could shift over to those products.
So that's driven a good deal of growth in Roper Pump.
But the rest of oil and gas is really the refinery businesses which are back making instrumentation acquisitions.
And then our Compressor Control business which is at heart of pipeline technology for feeds and speeds around turbine compressor.
And that business is doing well and continues to do well.
So there's sort of no negatives for us in the oil and gas arena.
And then we consider Zetec and our other sensor businesses in energy to be really industrial and more industrial.
And by the way just as an additional thing Matt you had asked about Zetec.
Well we've got 21 people which was 8% of the workforce here this month.
We'll take our next question from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Brian could you just talk for a second or 2 about Sunquest maybe what the core growth looked like there? I know it's not included yet but what the core growth look like there.
You commented that by the fourth quarter it should accelerate somewhat meaningfully.
And I just was wondering how the -- or what an update would be on their ability to deliver kind of next-gen software.
So it's not just next-gen software it's really upgrades and additional applications to the installed base.
So that's what is happening.
So -- and particularly as hospitals look to utilize the software in the lab in order to be able to comply with meaningful use regulations the existing sets of customers have been able to meet the first level of meaningful use with existing Sunquest software suite.
And then there are additional applications that are necessary to demonstrate meaningful use into 2014.
It's those upgrades that have created a sizable a very nice backlog of activity for Sunquest.
And they are ramping up their delivery capability against what's a much larger set of net new orders or additional applications than what they've ever experienced in the past.
So from a revenue basis it's always a little bit I think questionable to compare against pre-acquisition times because you're never quite sure everything that was in there.
Even with the amount of diligence that we've done it's not subject to SEC reporting and all the other things associated with that.
But we see the revenue on a pro forma basis up kind of in the low to mid-single-digits.
But we expect that to be better in the fourth quarter as they continue to execute against the sizable backlog.
And it's not until the fourth quarter when Sunquest will turn organic from a reporting standpoint because we do wait until we have a full quarter to compare against under our ownership.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question or follow-up.
On the M&amp;A pipeline Brian is the pipeline still heavily slanted towards software-type businesses? And also is that again slanted towards the medical side of the business? Or are there opportunities in the other platforms that are equally as attractive? Well we've looked at a number of things Richard that we thought were pretty attractive and are in the energy arena.
And they for the most part either have a high degree of embedded software or firmware in the product or they in fact are software companies.
And there's 2 that we had recent discussions with that we like.
But just we don't think they're really quite right in their kind of development life if you will.
We think they've got some work they need to complete.
And if they get that done well we'd be really happy to circle back with them.
And so those are things that might happen.
There are a large number of people that tend to be in the -- remember the sort of cash register world we live in around CBORD and Horizon and some other people that are collecting information that people use for invoice and processing.
So there are businesses like that that we look at and talk about frequently.
Certainly MHA has opened up an opportunity to look at some other businesses that are complementary to those businesses in senior care and just a number of different things that are going on there.
People know that we're -- we just invested nearly $2.5 billion at Sunquest and MHA so the investment banking community tends to just deluge you with things that are similar to that.
And they certainly have done that.
We haven't found any of those yet to be very compelling and we have other conversations that we like that are more directly related to our existing businesses around bolt-ons.
And we have the luxury of generating cash in a hurry and we're always going to do a great thing as opposed to just doing something to have activity.
So that's kind of where it is.
We'll take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> What was the organic orders rate? I think it was -- the revenues it was about a 10% contribution from deals.
What was that in the orders number? So on an orders basis organic orders in the second quarter were down 2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what's the third quarter organic -- what should we kind of expect for the third quarter organic growth? What's embedded in that EPS assumption? Understand the second quarter is that idea that they're down 2% when 1/3 of TransCore came in in the second quarter last year is not a normalized number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So x that what would order have been? Probably must have been flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the third quarter what should we expect from an organic perspective? I'm just trying to understand the sequencing of the second half.
Well I think we said that we expect revenue to be in the 5% to probably 6% in Q3 and somewhere between 6% and 9% in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what -- Perfect.
Okay.
And then one last question just a housekeeping item.
On the deferred revenue it was up nicely sequentially.
How much was MHA how much did that contribute? MHA does not actually have very much deferred revenue at all.
So most of the deferred -- in fact the deferred revenue growth that you see in the second quarter is annual renewals at our CBORD and Horizon businesses as well as additions at Sunquest.
It really does not apply with MHA.
Research Division</strong> So that's a pretty positive move there right? It is.
Yes.
So a it's a positive move.
And it's also a little seasonal with respect to when the renewal period happens for college and university customers.
Those renewals generally happen in the second quarter due to their fiscal year and the way they roll out new projects.
Even without that though it's still a nice increase for us.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's terrific color.
Just one last question.
I guess the segment that I just want a little more detail on would be energy.
I guess Compressor Controls is obviously going to be up.
Your orders were up kind of low single-digits.
There's a headwind from Zetec.
It looks like around 3% there $10 million year-over-year.
In the second half are we talking about -- are we -- we're talking about growth there obviously.
Is it that kind of low single-digit just below the average of the company for the second half in energy? I would say that for the segment in total it will be about similar to what the total company will be in the second half from an organic basis.
True the drag on Zetec will hurt that but the oil and gas portion of that segment is actually growing faster than the company.
So net-net it's kind of in line.
So as we look across the 4 segments for the second half we see more of the organic side coming from RF less of the organic coming from industrial because we do still have a little bit of the headwind although it does go away by the time we get to fourth quarter with that customer loss.
And then the rest of it kind of in the range.
We'll take our next question from John Quealy of Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about on Industrial Technology the impact to margins on the Neptune headwind either Q2 or rest of year? From a margin perspective it's de minimis.
They're all about the same type of margin profile.
The only time when we have a little bit of margin movement if you will is when for example on our Toronto project where we're not only providing the meters and technology but also doing the installation services.
So that's something unique to the Neptune business in Canada.
And the installation services which is the labor force and temporary labor that we're able to bring on for in order to do the installs themselves that labor portion doesn't have the same type of technology and other things that we have embedded in the meter.
And so it comes at a slightly lower margin.
But other than that all the meters are generally similar in terms of margin profile.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And in terms of my follow-up tolls and traffic you talked about good visibility with Houston and the Florida migration now I guess Q4 into year.
But can you talk about refilling the backlog in terms of the pipeline of projects? How do you characterize that environment? Well those things and when you get orders are always really very very lumpy.
So we're involved in a number of big projects.
We've got a good deal of new activity that we're looking at in Dubai.
We have new activity in some other portions of the Emirates.
We have additional activity we're working on in Puerto Rico.
And then we have substantial activity here in the U.S.
that we're working on.
We've really beefed up our regional sales organization so that we're getting much more direct customer focus than we frankly have had in the past.
We've got considerable amount of management talent.
And those guys are very very bullish about what they think will happen in 2014 and 2015 so they would expect record performance off of these various projects.
And then the profitability is -- sort of circles around what the mix of the business is because the reader technology and the tags of course are higher-margin than the service business but the service business has higher total revenue.
So while we wouldn't establish guidance yet for 2014 we would expect for our ITS and Amtech businesses to have growth that could well be above the company projection for 2014.
And I think John with that we're 9:30.
That is correct.
Yes.
We've actually reached the end of our allotted time.
So I think that we're all set at this point.
Kyle can you wrap it up? That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return it back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Okay.
So once again thank you all for joining us.
And we look forward to talking to you again in 3 months as we complete our third quarter.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
The Roper Industries Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Alicia and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our third quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci who heads up Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
In addition we prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as detailed on our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 3.
Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation on our website.
For the third quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted consists of 2 discrete items.
First a fair value adjustment to acquire deferred revenue at Sunquest.
For the quarter this impact was $1 million to revenue and operating profit.
And this also represents the last time we'll be talking about this adjustment as we've now completed our 12 months and this deferred revenue adjustment is now completed.
This adjustment does represent revenue that absent our acquisition Sunquest would have recognized.
Second a fair value adjustment to revenue for MHA totaling $7.9 million.
Again this represents revenue that absent our acquisition MHA would have recognized.
We believe showing our results on this basis provides additional insight into the ongoing and recurring results of the business.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 4 I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
So the first slide here is the quarter 3 enterprise financial results.
We achieved record results in the third quarter across almost every important line and these are substantial increases in orders in backlog in revenue in net earnings in EBITDA and in cash flow.
Our orders were $846 million.
Revenue was $837 million with a book-to-bill of 1.01x and backlog ended the quarter at $1.04 billion.
Gross margin was really spectacular in the quarter up 280 points to 58.7%.
Our EBITDA was up 20% to $278 million in the quarter.
EBITDA margin was also spectacular up 240 basis points to 33.2%.
Our diluted earnings per share were up 15% on the adjusted basis and I think it was 17% on a GAAP basis.
The GAAP operating cash flow was up 25% to $256 million.
We'll talk a little bit more about how that positions us so well going forward.
Very compelling margins and cash flow in the quarter.
Next slide.
If we look at the Q3 income statement you'll see orders increased by $126 million from last year from $720 million to $846 million an 18% increase in orders with organic orders up 7%.
Our revenue was up 11% with organic at 3%.
We'll talk a little bit about that as that was a little less than we'd like to have seen on organic.
Our gross margin was up sharply as I said to 58.7%.
Our operating margin which we probably ought to talk more about was up another 160 basis points to 27.3%.
Now our tax rate actually was a $0.02 headwind in the quarter compared to the prior year actual as it increased from 29.4% to 30.3% but that was somewhat consistent with what we expected.
Net earnings that figure is up 15% to $142 million.
Now in the $142 million we'll talk when we get into the segment detail about Zetec which against our expectations as weak as they were still delivered a $0.03 miss in the quarter.
Next slide.
The EBITDA growth and margin expansion that we continued to have for a long period of time is still very sustainable and you see it continue to grow.
So here if you look at 2011 our trailing third quarter EBITDA for the past 12 months was $779 million.
It increased $93 million in the 12-month period from the third quarter of '11 to '12 and now has skyrocketed up another $170 million in the last 12 months ending this quarter at $1 042 000 000.
That's $263 million of increase in the last 2 years on a revenue variance of $461 million.
So you can run your own leverage but it's well above 50%.
If we look at the EBITDA margin that continues to expand.
In 2011 it was 28.5%.
This trailing 12-month period ended at 32.6% with actual third quarter results at 33.2%.
So a 410-basis-point improvement in our EBITDA performance.
And really I suppose on this slide we should be detailing the other kind of margin improvements with gross margin and operating margin that continues to expand.
And EBITDA -- or EBITA margins if we look at just eliminating the D portion and look at EBITA it was 32% in the quarter.
So those amortization things which are noncash always are important.
This is how we look at how we're doing and how we're getting all this cash.
Next slide.
If we look at cash flow results you can see they just continue to move on up.
Frankly spectacular in the third quarter $244 million of free cash flow is 29% of revenue.
Now you're not going to do that every quarter but if you look at the year-to-date results which is what we're stressing here because of the -- trying to provide some balance our year-to-date cash flow is up $101 million from this point last year to $567 million.
That gives us a year-to-date operating cash flow of 24% and CapEx was only $33 million year-to-date.
So free cash flow is $534 million year-to-date.
And of course we continue to trend up.
So even though you see year-to-date at 24% in the third quarter only the operating cash flow was 31%.
Cash conversion is just exceptional.
Next slide.
We look at the balance sheet here which continues to improve even with our transactions.
We finished the quarter with cash of $460 million and the undrawn revolver of $1 110 000 000.
EBITDA as we said on a trailing basis is $1 042 000 000.
If you look the gross debt number at $2 606 million and take away the $460 million in cash our net debt number is only $2 146 000 000 against $1 042 000 000 in EBITDA which is a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.06x.
So we feel we're in a very strong position from a flexibility viewpoint.
Next slide.
Here we'll take a look at the individual segment details which are really quite interesting in the quarter.
Next slide.
So on Energy Systems &amp; Controls starting from the smallest segment to the largest they certainly had a devastatingly difficult period with the Zetec nuclear business.
We had sort of indicated we thought it could be down for the balance of the year maybe $10 million.
We were hoping it wouldn't be that bad but it's actually much worse.
The Zetec number in the third quarter was down 44% from the corresponding period a year ago because of this activity around shutting down various plants and not testing at the moment.
And that wiped out our ability to have organic growth in the Energy segment in the third quarter.
If we exclude Zetec the segment revenue in the quarter actually would have been up 4% not down 2%.
So it's very unusual for us to have something like that that has a distortion of the quality in the underlying businesses.
All of this eventually turns into a various -- a variable positive in 2014 because these things will be tested and there will be activity.
But it's just not going to happen in the second half of this year.
We also saw reduced activity in upstream areas in North American oil and gas which was more severe than we expected.
That affects not only energy but it also affects our Roper Pump business which reports through the Fluid Handling area.
Not a -- certainly still decent business but very disappointing in terms of organic growth in the third quarter and probably in the fourth quarter as well.
That was really more than offset though with improving contributions from our Compressor Controls business which really is much more of a software company frankly and PAC which is focused more on the midstream and downstream oil and gas areas.
If we look at orders in the quarter they were only up 1%.
But if you exclude Zetec our orders in the quarter were up 7%.
So really without Zetec orders up 7% and revenue up 4% would have been a satisfactory result.
If we look at the fourth quarter we did an acquisition just right here at the beginning the first week in October of an Irish company called Advanced Sensors which has a new proprietary technology for remote reading of information offshore.
It's a very exciting technology.
We very much like the people involved in this and think they're going to add to our online reading capability of a variety of things that PAC does.
We see in the fourth quarter continued strength at Compressor Controls.
We would expect record performance there.
And PAC really started to rebound in the third quarter even though it was off of our expectations for growth yet still was up nominally and it will be up again in the fourth quarter.
Unfortunately the nuclear weakness looks to continue.
I think it's going to be down 40% here in the second half of the year before it starts to grow off of a ridiculously easy comp in 2014.
And then the segment as a whole we think will have kind of a mid-single-digit 5%-plus growth in the fourth quarter.
Next slide.
In the Industrial Technology arena we see there's a little bit of carryover here with the upstream activity in oil and gas affecting Roper Pump and to a much less degree the dewatering pumps at Cornell.
We had a decent performance there but that coiled tubing section that goes into drilling at Roper Pump was down sharply cost us about $5 million in revenue in the quarter.
Orders though were up 1% reported.
This will be the last quarter we have that variance around Neptune's nonrenewal on the customer side.
It would have been up about 3% without that.
We had very strong performance in Neptune again.
It's certainly not fair to exclude the lost customer scenario but without that year-to-date we'd be up nearly 11%.
They had a very good quarter very much bolstered by continued strength in Toronto and the U.S.
homebuilding gives us an opportunity to get more renewals and just add on normal replacement of water meters plus the starts.
And then this has been an extraordinary year in winning a large number of small-sized communities.
I think when we -- we looked at a targeted approach that was nearing 20 and we've gotten all but one so very successful.
I think our lead-free meter experience and the cost structures we have to produce it are really demonstrating the strength we have in this unique company because its margins are certainly similar to the segment where other competitors are talking about gross margins in the 30s and operating margins of 15%.
So it still remains the class of the water metering and technology issue.
Material analysis growth very strong in consumables at Struers which was helpful.
A slight decline in instrument sales.
But in the first half of the year their instrument sales were down more.
They had very strong sales in Asia with Japan and China and it looks like they've turned the corner on the trend in instrument sales.
We had terrific margin performance operating margin at 30.3% even though there was very limited sales growth in the quarter.
These 30% operating margins I think just demonstrate the sustainability of the quality of these businesses.
If we look at fourth quarter we don't see any improvement yet in the upstream oil and gas drilling activity.
If that happened that would be helpful.
We see continued growth for Neptune because of the housing starts and the growing use of lead-free meters in North America.
We think that the material analysis businesses will be a little better as we see continued improvement in instruments.
And then contributions at Cornell they've done a remarkable job this year of adding new customers which traditionally they hadn't gone after.
And those additions of new customers are starting to produce more internal organic growth and they look to have a little bit of a rebound in the rental market in the fourth quarter.
So we're feeling -- even though the performance is quite good we think it will get to be a little bit better.
Next slide.
If we look at RF Technology it's certainly had a remarkable quarter.
Orders were up 13%.
All of that is organic.
So that's a terrific leg up positioning us for 2014.
Really everybody in there is growing for the most part.
We have broad-based improvement in toll and traffic; in the various software businesses whether they're the subscription businesses or just licensed software; and the RF products businesses.
The products are really around Inovonics security-focused activity and Technolog which is our European data collection technology they get sales[ph] through products.
Toll and traffic did better which helps account for the revenue growth of 8% and increase in OP and margin improvement at 28.3%.
And even though it was good it was actually a little bit under what we expected in the quarter because we thought that the Virginia project would get started early.
It really didn't get started until September.
So what happens is that that then rolls forward to a certain capacity constraint that the state or the authority will have and we'll have a strong fourth quarter.
And then what that really means is the expectation around the third quarter will get moved to the fourth quarter -- first quarter of next year so first half of next year will be stronger than we expected around the Virginia project we think stronger than we expected around Texas projects and Florida.
We had a terrific quarter in the campus software business with CBORD and security applications as we continued to get more wins from another company that's struggling at the moment.
And then we have product expansion in our software businesses and continued subscriber growth.
In the fourth quarter we expect double-digit growth in the segment certainly above 10%.
The toll and traffic projects continue to ramp up.
And plus they'll carryover into 2014 so it's a great setup for us for next year.
The Florida tag technology upgrade has been accelerating where we're putting multiple protocol deployments around various places in the state so that they can read different types of tags.
And they're also upgrading to a tag which has an entirely different footprint than you have been used to seeing.
It's a very small tag probably not even an inch tall and maybe 2.5 inches wide and totally flat.
It's a really exciting technology for them.
And we also launched at the IBTTA conference in September our go-anywhere pass which I think people are delighted to see.
There's a lot of -- we used to talk about HOV lanes meaning high-occupancy vehicles.
And now what people are talking about are managed lanes that allow people to move into a lane on a time-of-day basis or for some specific reason and you can collect the fee off the tag.
And that's opening up a number of new projects for us throughout the U.S.
We think we'll have mid-single-digit growth in the software businesses and continued strength in these RF-product businesses so a great story.
Next slide.
Here we're looking at the medical and imaging business sort of a tale of 2 different kinds of activity but just amazing results.
Orders are up 52%.
Organic orders were up 9%.
MHA contributed exactly what we expected very strong cash flow a wonderful leadership team extremely motivated people.
Substantial number of wins for Sunquest.
I mean their building book for 2014 is really ahead of schedule.
I will talk more about that here when we look at the fourth quarter.
We had double-digit growth in our image-guided surgical businesses which includes Northern Digital and CIVCO.
And the segment because of imaging declining was down about 5% in the quarter.
Medical was up in the high-single-digit range to offset that.
So we wound up with 3% organic growth.
And of course when we look at the overall business revenue was up 40% with the acquisitions' operating profit up 64% and OP margins now at 32.8% for the segment.
In the fourth quarter we expect MHA to contribute the same way as it has and we think organic growth in medical will be sort of similar mid digit -- mid-single-digit types of numbers on the product side.
Imaging end markets are going to continue to be challenging.
We think they're going to be down 10% to 12% in the fourth quarter but we'll be able to offset that with strength in medical.
Sunquest in the fourth quarter finally becomes organic.
We didn't sort of split that as part of the quarter in the third quarter.
And that organic growth will help our measurement when we're talking about just organic growth.
Very strong pipeline of opportunities in Sunquest.
We're going to enter the year with a substantial backlog around meaningful use and lab upgrades which is driving demand.
And the key for us will be our ability to execute with the implementation teams and we're adding rapidly to those now.
Next slide.
Here we get to the guidance update.
Next slide.
If you look at the numbers what we've tried to do is sort of segregate this little T-account for you so that you can see what's changed on the left-hand side what remains the same about the company and what the effect of that is.
Our operating cash flow we maintained at -- saying we're going to reaffirm we'll do over $800 million in operating cash flow despite reduction in the Q4 DEPS guidance.
Our DEPS we came in at $5.57 to $5.63 versus $5.72 to $5.86 in the past.
Q4 adjusted DEPS then are $1.57 to $1.63 and we've already earned $4 year-to-date I believe.
So what's changed? Well the Zetec nuclear business is going to be down 40% maybe worse in the second half.
We had expected that maybe over the second half period we could have a $10 million headwind.
But year-over-year we're going to be down $20 million in Zetec which was certainly not anything we ever imagined.
Now the good thing about Zetec is that from time to time it's lumpy.
And if you're off a lot there is a permanent reduction in some aspects of it because of the closedown of 3 different reactors.
But that said they've got to test the stuff and we're going to get that business.
So it will help us next year.
Oil and gas drilling activity we think is going to continue to be weaker than expected in the fourth quarter.
That's been kind of a double-digit millions more than $10 million headwind in the third quarter and still more than a $10 million headwind in the fourth quarter.
But we're still in both the third quarter and the fourth quarter above last year's actual.
So it's really been more a reduction in our different businesses expectations about delivery and it's all delayed -- it's all around the upstream nothing in the midstream or downstream is negative.
Modest changes in the other end markets mostly imaging which is another headwind as we said down 10% to 12% perhaps.
I guess the truth of that is that you are seeing some sequestration effect around that.
Those businesses tend to be a little lower margin so don't have as big an effect.
That said we think that fourth quarter organic growth will come in around 3% to 4% and that's down from the 6% to 9% we had hoped for in the fourth quarter previously.
But the reality is what it is and we have to recognize that.
So what remains the same about the company? Well most of the great things that we do.
Organic growth will continue to improve throughout the year.
In the first quarter we reported negative 3% organic growth and then second up 1%.
In the third now we're up 3% and in the fourth quarter we expect to do better on organic growth than we did in the third.
And that sort of bodes well for 2014.
We've got key areas that are delivering organic growth continually whether that's medical it's toll and traffic it's the water meter business and the systems around collecting data for the water meters and the midstream and downstream oil and gas and all of the software businesses.
So those all are in fine shape and will do quite well.
We've got this exceptional margin performance with increasing leverage.
I think probably something that hasn't gotten enough attention which is our fault our gross margins in the third quarter in 2011 were 53.7%.
Our gross margins today are 58.7% a 500-basis-point improvement in gross margin.
And what that does for variable revenue and leverage is quite outstanding.
Our cash flow is still going to be $800 million as we said and our disciplined deployment around cash which we've demonstrated with both MHA and Sunquest at a time when other people are saying it's tough to do deals.
We got a lot of opportunities in our pipeline.
We remain excited about what's going on in our M&amp;A front.
Next slide.
So if we look at a summary of the quarter we hate the fact that we had to lower DEPS guidance in the fourth quarter but it doesn't mask the record Q3 results and the great setup we have for 2014.
We achieved record third quarter results and these weren't just well we beat by $1 these were substantial improvements in orders backlog revenue net earnings EBITDA and cash flow.
Orders remember we're up 18% 7% of which was organic; revenue up 11%; and backlog at $1 billion; gross margins at 58.7%; EBITDA margins at 33.2%; and a $278 million contribution of EBITDA.
DEPS up 15% but operating cash flow up 25%.
And our year-to-date conversion on operating cash flows 156%.
Free cash flow was up 24% to $244 million and our year-to-date free cash flow conversion is 143%.
So with that we'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Matt Summerville of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just to put this Zetec thing to bed a bit Brian.
If you look at the $0.19 reduction in EPS guidance at the midpoint how much of that $0.19 is being driven by Zetec? Well it's quite a bit.
I mean in the second half of the year it's going to be off at least $15 million.
And so you have to use whatever assumption about its contribution would be.
So it's not hard to see how it could be down $8 million or $10 million at least and tax it could be worse than that.
So it's a significant -- it's the single biggest portion of what's going on and then you got kind of a nut on the upstream oil and gas which is -- caught us offguard I'd say.
Research Division</strong> With regards to drilling activity I mean it hasn't been super robust for a while.
However you had launched some new products in the market at Roper Pump.
There was a pretty attractive market share story going on there.
Is that still true in that regard? Have you anniversary-ed that launch and now you're seeing more of a broader market impact? Is that what's going on here? No.
That's a great question.
The new product is called DuraTorque.
It's doing very well.
It's more around the directional drilling.
It has a lot of different things whether it's a mixture of wet product or dry product or gas only.
It's a certain kind of thing but our coiled tubing product which much more is gas-oriented is what didn't meet our expectations.
We actually were up.
We had year-over-year improvement.
It's just that we had expected substantially more.
Now the new product is doing well on certain sizes and we're opening a new facility in Texas which -- I mean it's actually sort of open now but it's all getting geared up.
That will allow us to sell larger sizes.
That's not yet in production won't get in production until the first quarter of next year.
So that's a positive the -- as we gain market share with that technology in the larger sizes but we can't produce those in Commerce.
They're physically too large for our equipment.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly what do you think has to happen in the marketplace for you to start to see a turn in your imaging business as this has continued to cycled down? I'm looking at John.
It's cycling down but it's still -- it's better than anybody else's.
It has high gross margins.
It's contributing positive cash.
Parts of it are really pretty good.
I just don't think that the camera portion of what it is we do is a secular growth story.
It requires government investment and research spending.
We're in a period where that's under high scrutiny and so there's not a lot of end-market-derived demand.
There's nothing you can do to push elasticity in demand for cameras.
People have to have grant money available.
When they do we get a disproportionate share of that.
But if you look at any of the other people in these spaces there aren't very many it's kind of an oligopoly you'll see they're all doing very poorly.
We'll go next to Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Brian thanks for the color on the variance on 4Q.
I just want to dive in to Zetec a little bit.
Last quarter you mentioned that there were -- I believe you mentioned 4 nuclear plants that weren't going to come back.
And so I'm trying to understand what the big variance was relative to your expectations for this quarter.
So perhaps maybe we can start there if you could provide a little bit more color.
Well I think that people had certain expectations around various things.
The San Onofre thing was a big variable that we sort of understood and had factored that into the guidance.
But these other things that have happened and not doing testing in the third quarter fourth quarter rolling it into 2014 was not expected.
We also do a big business in Korea with that and they've had some political issues over there with information reporting.
And so the normalized business we would have expected there didn't occur.
There -- it's just been sort of a dark period if you will in the second half.
Our people in that business I mean we -- in our quarterly review they detailed a bridge down to $100 000 of variance from a walk last year.
So it's one of the things -- they tell you exactly what didn't work and in terms of why and they would say "Well it's just external things we have no control over and we'll get most of it back next year." But it certainly -- it's not a growth business.
It's more of a cash cow.
But next year because of this ridiculous collapse of its revenue in 2013 it will be a temporary growth business.
Research Division</strong> So is this something that then continues to bleed into the first half of next year because really the problem started surfacing last quarter? Well it's not expected to at all.
It's expected that these things that are not happening in the second half would begin to happen again favorably in the first half although I don't think they know what the detailed schedules are.
We took quite a few people out of this business I think like 24 or something like that and didn't comment on that in terms of the cost to take them out.
But that's about as much as you could do without eating into people that are really field service engineering people and guys that work on the algorithms and analysis for everybody.
But the cooling towers are still in operation and there are mandatory checks and they'll happen.
So it's certainly not a part of our growth strategy.
It's just been an unfortunate problem for us in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I think just switching gears a little bit into some of the tolling projects.
I think last quarter you mentioned that the Florida tag was moving into 4Q could slip into 1Q.
I missed your comments earlier.
Perhaps you can talk a little bit about that confidence that you have in Florida tag specifically for 4Q.
What's embedded into expectations? Or has that slipped out into 1Q? And maybe some commentary around Virginia and Texas as well.
Well we're going to have a terrific fourth quarter in toll and traffic.
I mean it's going to be very very very strong.
The dynamic for the second half of the year though was we've had some projects that we expected would start earlier in the third quarter than they did.
And so third quarter was good but could have been substantially better.
The ability of these agencies to deploy various things is kind of a fixed deployment.
And so we'll have an exceptional fourth quarter but that will then carry over into a very strong first half of the year for toll and traffic.
I mean I think John's going to be comfortable to say toll and traffic is going to be up over 15% maybe more in the fourth quarter of this year.
So there really aren't any problems there.
It's just a slower start than we expected.
We'll go next to Christopher Glynn of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the RF and how the backlog and quotation activity is maybe setting up for the 2014 top line.
If you could comment on that.
And is there any sense that 2014 could be pretty front-end loaded in terms of the full year expectation? Oh I wouldn't say -- I mean we're not going to give you a lot of guidance around '14 but we're going to feel pretty good about it.
So John why don't you...
Yes.
And the projects that we have going on that of course started to revenue in the third quarter but really ramp-up a little bit more in the fourth which is Virginia as well as the Houston project where we're replacing an awful lot of lane equipment with some of our proprietary lane equipment in addition to the continuing Florida tag upgrade project.
Those things started to ramp in Q3.
They kind of reach a steady-state level in Q4.
We expect that steady-state level to continue into Q1.
And then we'll just -- I vow[ph] that they'll all have various times when they start to complete but I don't think any of those projects will be completed even in the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a big-picture question on operating margins for you guys.
They're very high obviously across the segments.
And just wondering if you could comment what are the drivers from here in terms of mix volume leverage et cetera.
If you can kind of tackle that question on a segment-by-segment basis.
Sure.
So I think the place to look for insight into that is what the gross margin is for each of the 4 segments.
So I think if you look at our medical and imaging segment where our gross margin has now reached 70% I think it's fair to say that every incremental dollar of revenue there means more than it does say in our industrial business.
We love our industrial businesses but we have gross margins there that are right at 50%.
So you have a different level of contribution that's going to come from growth in our core medical area.
And also once you start to look over at RF where our gross margins are also pretty high largely as a result of our SaaS and software businesses.
So in those areas where we have outsized growth software medical MHA and Sunquest and things like that then that -- I mean that should convert at probably 50% or maybe even a little more.
In those areas like industrial and our core energy businesses those things are probably closer into the 35% range.
And so I think as you start to see us continue to build in some of those areas I think you'll see the incremental leverage associated with that and that's really what's going to drive the operating profit improvement as we go forward.
We'll go next Deane Dray of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Brian back in September you were describing the M&amp;A environment and specifically pricing of assets.
I think the word you were using was horrendous.
Maybe give us an update on the pipeline.
And as your leverage comes down now well below your normalized leverage rates do you have a Plan B in terms of capital allocation or you just want to keep all the gunpowder dry? Oh no.
I mean we're always involved in something.
I would say that the pricing and seller expectations are as horrendous as they were before which is why you're seeing a lot of things not getting done out in the marketplace.
I mean we're fortunate to continue to find things that we think are great additions to the family and we can do that by offering people opportunities to be part of Roper in a way that works for them and still doesn't blow out pricing multiples.
Their -- the pipeline is really quite large.
There are a lot of different things that we're -- it would be a rare moment that we're not looking at 3 or 4 things simultaneously.
And so I -- we don't have like a budgeted thing like "Gee you did a $1 billion deal in the first quarter.
Are you're going do another one in the fourth quarter?" It doesn't work like that.
I mean we do them when everything sort of aligns.
We like the management team we like the core market we think we can add some value to it we think it's a cultural fit and we think the numbers work out over time.
And we're definitely seeing things like that.
Now that said when the debt staples are as enormous as they are oftentimes 7x debt-to-EBITDA it gets stapled to a transaction.
And junk bond kind of high yield if you want to call it that is still very low so it drives up the multiples.
And that's as horrendous now as it was whenever I made that comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know this was a knit last quarter but is the chapter closed on the Hansen refrigeration valve story? No it's not.
And so we continue to go through that process.
We've shipped out roughly half of the affected valves but we have not received as many back.
So that process for the field and for our installation partners is still continuing as far as them being out in the field and replacing those products.
But we're fully engaged on that.
We expect to be about 90% completed with that part of the project by the end of the year.
And we're still in the process of discussing with the supplier the -- any restitution.
So we will call that out once anything like that happens.
As Brian mentioned back at the second quarter call it's a pretty small company not a lot of capital there.
But we're still looking for the ability to offset some of this $9 million that we're having to spend in order to make sure our customers stay whole.
We'll go next to Richard Eastman of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Brian could you just talk for a couple of minutes about both MHA and then also Sunquest? You had mentioned Sunquest's backlog pipeline was strong.
Does Sunquest now start to look like a mid-single-digit grower as it becomes core sales? And then the follow-up question to that is if you look at those 2 acquisitions MHA and Sunquest if I make some estimates as to what their contribution margin in the quarter was does the core business in med scientific did they make progress on their margins or they slipped a little bit? So I'll address at least the first one of those talking a little bit about our expectations for Sunquest.
They've built I mean just a tremendous backlog with not only upgrades but also new facilities so new badges as well particularly as hospitals are continuing to comply with meaningful use regulations in order to be able to drive additional revenue into the hospital system.
One of the ways that they can do that is better utilization of information and MHA -- and Sunquest allows them to do that.
So that's quite a bit of the backlog that we've been able to build there and we expect that to start to deliver.
It's already started deliver but continue to ramp up deliveries against that in 2014 even in 2015.
So I think -- I mean you mentioned the mid-single-digit growth area.
I would definitely expect that and we would actually hope for a little bit more than that.
And as we look forward -- so even if you exclude the contributions of both MHA and Sunquest we did have margin expansion across the company.
We had good incremental leverage on our -- on the 3% growth.
Of course it was 3% growth so that incremental leverage works out to be I think in the mid-30% range if my recollection is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the core in medical scientific the incrementals is still kind of mid-30s there despite the weakness on the imaging side? Yes that's correct.
That's correct.
It's really because -- actually because -- even if you exclude the contributions of MHA and Sunquest so talking specifically just for that segment we still had net organic growth there largely driven by our image-guided medical products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a real quick question.
This Advanced Sensors business that you acquired could you just give an approximate revenue size for that? Well it's really a new technology.
So it's -- I mean they have an expectation that they would be in excess of $10 million but it could be really substantially better than that.
They have a very substantial ramp that they think they'll get and we'd like to believe they're right.
But it's a [indiscernible] margin business.
And they really do have a proprietary technology that when you see it it's remarkable because today the way people get information at the wellhead or on the platform is archaic.
And you could be sitting somewhere else and getting this information feed basically through a very different type of access technology.
And it's where -- I mean people kind of see it and don't believe it.
It was introduced in the second half of this year at a trade show and they are under siege for people wanting to buy the product which was one of the reasons that we were able to come in and acquire the company because it requires some investment and has very interesting forward prospects.
We'll go next to Mark Douglass of Longbow Research.
Brian as we think about the risk to organic growth not only in fourth quarter but also looking to '14.
Guidance taken down a couple of times.
35% organic growth guide earlier this year not going to hit it.
Obviously Zetec is a big part of that oil and gas.
Are there other parts of your business where you're just lacking real strong confidence that things are going to turn? Or can you just talk about other risks in other businesses? Well in the fourth quarter it's really driven quite substantially by these 3 things: the sort of almost freeze on nuclear activity and then the upstream oil and gas and then the camera reductions.
Those make up the lion's share of everything.
When you look about 2014 we're going to get solid growth out of all the RF businesses we expect and solid growth out of our existing medical product businesses and really sort of everything in that capacity.
Energy has had a somewhat disappointing year in 2013.
So it sets up for pretty easy comps in 2014.
And then you have industrial which will have capacity that we don't have today for higher-diameter DuraTorque products in Texas.
We think -- we've had 2 or 3 things this year that aren't going to repeat.
So you ask this customer renewal situation which was millions and millions of dollars and you've got -- you're past the Zetec situation which is millions of dollars.
So we're setup for comps in '14 better.
Now we haven't gone through our planning with all the field people but we're looking forward to a strong year.
Okay.
But nothing -- I mean any areas where you're just getting perpetually weaker without any of these big kind of onetime...
No not at all.
I think what you have is just you've got a pretty slow growth macro economy.
And so there are guys who are looking to grow at twice GDP.
You're looking at a pretty lousy GDP base off of which to grow.
So if you get 3% 3.5% GDP growth that some people think you'd get in '14 I mean that's going to help some of those kind of businesses.
We'll go next to Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On that gross margin improvement obviously another great quarter there.
Is there anything -- I know there's a mix dynamic because you've been buying stuff that's a little more high gross margin.
What would you point to as kind of the 1 to 2 things that you're doing there? Is it mix? Is it -- it's kind of hard to -- for us to reach in and analyze that gross margin.
It's just so strong that maybe if you could talk about a couple of the big drivers there over the long -- over the last couple of years.
Well I think there's 2 different things right? So the kind of things we've been acquiring have been high-margin businesses.
Many of them get paid in advance for what they do which drives so much of the positive you see here around cash.
The other businesses have sort of focused on different kinds of disciplines around our market share and customer profitability.
So they work very hard on making sure they're serving customers that make sense for them to serve and not wasting time selling to people that are high maintenance and low margin.
Our guys have a very disciplined approach around product development and when they're looking at their product roadmaps they're looking at ways to have contributions from the new products that are higher than contributions they had from the old products.
So that continues to sort of anniversary beneficially to us.
Now when you move 500 basis points up in 2 years from the 53.7% to 58.7% certainly some of that is due to Sunquest and due to MHA a little bit in the third quarter.
But pretty much everybody has improving gross margins.
Research Division</strong> Right right yes.
No it's definitely pretty broad-based when you look back over the last couple of years.
There's not really 1 segment that's carrying you there.
On the leverage is there a target where you would get more aggressive? Or are you pretty comfortable here deploying capital at 2.5x -- I think it's gross -- 2.5x gross? Yes.
I think we've said 2.5x but 2.5x to 3x because we have so much cash.
It really assembles so quickly for us.
We wouldn't have any problem being at 3x or slightly above 3x for a temporary period if we had a clear pathway to reduce it back.
But from a sort of planning or modeling viewpoint we'd like to think we're more like 2.5x debt-to-EBITDA on a gross basis.
But we're not uncomfortable at a little over 3x as long as it doesn't stay there.
We'll go next John Quealy of Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> It's Chip Moore for John.
On Zetec it sounds like you have pretty good visibility on things coming back next year.
Can you just talk a little bit about historical precedents if you've ever seen delays like this? Not to this magnitude no where you have both a little bit of an impact from plant shutdowns and actually mothballing some nuclear facilities in addition to what is a little more normal for Zetec which is lumpiness.
So quarter-to-quarter lumpiness for Zetec is not a surprise.
What we're seeing here in the second half is more than what we've seen in the past.
So when you talk about visibility it's one of those things that when I look 12 months out and look at what's going to happen over a 12-month period there's actually better visibilty than looking out over a 3-month period just because some of these things can be pushed or delayed but they can't be eliminated right? You still have to -- I mean there are still regulations around shutting down and testing the cooling tower and the tubes and the other parts of the process.
So that part can't be eliminated but it can be postponed sometimes.
And so that part is not unusual but what we're seeing this time is unusual.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a follow-up to that.
You've mentioned taking some costs out there as you look forward.
Assuming it bounces back next year what kind of benefit can that have? It's a modest benefit.
People are not that expensive.
It's 24 people times whatever and some of them would be variable you'd bring them back.
So not material to anything Roper does.
Right.
We'll take our next question from Alex Blanton of Clear Harbor Asset Management.
LLC</strong> This is sort of a nonquantitative question.
You've had a lot of those so far today.
But given the unusual nature of some of the problems that you've had here in the second half I mean you don't usually have misses in earnings estimates and guidance.
How much of a distraction have these problems been if any to management in pursuing its acquisition program? Because that seems to have slowed a bit at the same time as some of these problems cropped up.
Has there been a problem or not? Not a problem at all and I'm not sure how you could say it slowed.
I mean we invested $1 billion this year in the MHA acquisition.
And that's...
LLC</strong> Well that's true but I mean in the fourth quarter.
In fourth quarter we didn't see much.
Well hold on.
I mean this is the most aggressive acquisition investment deployment policy in the history of the enterprise in the last 2 years over $2.5 billion.
And we just announced the bolt-on now.
So good Lord what would you want in acquisitions.
So our capital deployment is just off the charts compared to anybody else.
LLC</strong> Okay okay.
So you anticipate some good stuff coming in 2014 that I gather from that? We always expect good stuff to come.
I mean we are going to deploy capital.
We have proven that for a long number of years and we're going to continue to deploy capital in great opportunities.
LLC</strong> And would you say that you've got the operating management in place to handle the problems you've had effectively and minimize them? I do think that.
I think that these are macro trends and upstream stuff that has nothing to do with the quality of the management that we have at Viatran and the diesel engine shutoff valve business and some of the core AMOT businesses and certainly the coiled tubing aspect at Roper Pump or dewatering pumps or any of these things.
The underlying nature of those businesses is outstanding.
You can see it by the sustained operating profit margin they have and their product roadmap.
So I think that's fine.
And any acquisitions we do frankly come with quality management teams.
So assimilating them isn't very risky.
So I think we're -- I mean I could tell you that we have the best leadership group here at Roper right now that we've ever had and it's stronger today than it was 5 years ago.
So I don't think it has anything to do with sort of taking your eye off of anything.
It's really the incredible negative reaction to people who were going to bring up nuclear power plants who aren't the people who are mothballing them and the big falloff in gas activity and sort of modest falloff in rig counts.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We will now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you Alicia and I thank all of you for joining us today.
And we look forward to talking to you again in 3 months when we finish up the fourth quarter.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
The Roper Industries Fourth Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
I would now like turn the call over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mary and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our fourth quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci Director of Planning and Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through webcast and also available on our website at www.roperind.com.
If you turn to Slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call well be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed on our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 3.
Today we will be discussing our fourth quarter results on a GAAP basis.
Results from prior periods are presented on an adjusted basis for comparison purposes primarily related to revenue recognition around our Sunquest and MHA acquisitions.
Reconciliations between this prior period GAAP and adjusted results are included in this presentation as attachments.
Now if you'll please turn to the next slide Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks well take questions from our participants.
Brian? Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
We start here with an overview.
Ill give you fourth quarter enterprise financial results discussion and then look at the segment detail that happened in the quarter and what the implications are for 2014 and then close out with Q1 guidance and the 2014 guidance for whats going on.
We have some facts headwinds in 14.
Well talk about them.
Youll find our guys a lot more robust as some early notes indicated.
All right.
So we have the Q4 results next slide.
If you look at enterprise financial results we had a record across the board for any quarter in the history again.
We achieved record orders record backlog record revenue record net earnings record EBITDA and the orders as well talk about were really terrific.
$900 million in orders $889 million in revenue with a book-to-bill of 1.01.
Gross margins hit 60% in that quarter.
Wow 60% up 210 basis points.
EBITDA was up 12% to $307 million in the quarter.
Our EBITDA margin was up 80 bps to 34.5%.
And an EBITBA margin of 34.5% really is another example of Ropers transformation thats occurred over the last several years.
Our DEPS were up 11% to $1.65 in the quarter above our guidance and our operating cash flow was up 11% to $236 million getting dangerously close to $1 billion run rate there.
Were very well positioned as a result of this quarter for 2014.
So its really a great momentum item for us as we move ahead.
Next slide on the fourth quarter income statement here you can see orders were up 16% 10% organic orders.
Double digit organic growth is a phrase we havent heard for a long time.
Revenue was up 9% with organic at 4%.
Gross profit was up 210 basis points from 57.9% to 60%.
Our operating margin came up from 28.3% to 29% or 70 bps.
Interest expense was about the same.
Tax rate was a 10 bps headwind in the quarter but not really material.
And net earnings then came in at $166 million versus $147 million in the corresponding quarter up 11%.
Next slide if we look at the EBITDA and margin expansion I think we're going to point attention to the fact that just three years ago our trailing four month EBITDA was $638 million and we closed out this year with $1.74 billion.
So EBITDA in the last three years is up 68%.
And our EBITDA margin in 2010 was 26.7% and people were always challenging us about whether wed be able to hold on to this margin.
Fortunately we were able to improve them dramatically.
So we picked up 610 basis points on our EBITDA margin to hit 32.8%.
Thats an internal interesting number for us because the S&amp;P 500 industrials I believe had gross margins of 32% and we now are at an EBITDA margin for the entire year of 32.8%.
Our EBITDA leverage from 10 to 13 was about 49% over those three years.
Next slide we look at cash flow results.
You can see cash flow reached $803 million.
We had guided over $800 million as you may remember.
Cash flow was up 61% in the last three years and in fact just in 2011 12 and 13 period weve generated $2.1 billion in operating cash flow which really was nearly enough to fund both the Sunquest and MHA acquisitions for $2.4 billion in that period.
Our cash flow profile when you think about going forward we trend that out.
Were going to tell you later that we think well have cash conversion numbers that are somewhat similar to the ones you see here.
You multiple that against your earnings assumption and you can see there's going to be a whole lot of money and cash here for us to invest.
In the fourth quarter the operating cash flow was 142% conversion there over net earnings and our free cash flow of $227 million gave us cash conversion -- free cash conversion of 137%.
Next Slide if we look at the balance sheet here at the end of the year cash was up from $371 million to $460 million.
A lot of that is outside the U.S.
Undrawn revolver you put the two together and our cash and undrawn revolver was $1.7 billion at the end of the year almost the same as it was a year ago to $1.771 billion even though we spent and invested over $1 billion in acquisitions.
You can see the trailing 12 month EBITDA goes up to $1074 million from $925 million.
So the gross debt to EBITDA is 2.3.
Net debt to EBITDA is 1.9 and of course we intend to continue to drive cash immediately this year.
Next slide here we'll take a look at the various elements of the different segments so next slide.
First is and these are just listed in an array of smallest to highest revenue; the Energy Systems and Controls segment.
Their organic orders in the quarter were up 14%.
So that was pretty spectacular.
Organic revenue was up 3%.
We had a lot of strength in Compressor Controls and actually some renewed strength in our Petroleum Analyzer Control which has several different instrumentation businesses in it.
We did a small acquisition that we announced the last time called Advanced Sensors which is an offshore play on communicating information about the wellhead activity.
And it's a small business but it's very attractive for future growth.
Zetec actually corrected itself.
So it was as weak as we expected but they had orders that tell us that really the worst is behind us in that business and that order flow in the fourth quarter will continue nicely into 2014 we believe.
If you'll look here at 2014 orientation we're saying we ended the year with a record backlog so that certainly helps the momentum for Energy going into 2014.
We see a lot of continued strength both in LNG and refinery applications for our businesses that focus on that.
We think we'll have modest increases in some of the oil and gas markets which helped some of the other businesses in Energy and the nuclear activity headwinds are behind us.
So that's an easy comp for 2014 performance and we're confident that this segment as a whole will have record performance in 2014.
Next slide; we look here at Industrial Technology.
Orders were up 3% really spectacular operating performance for these businesses collectively.
The EBITDA margin these guys generated in the fourth quarter was 32.2% and these are in Industrial businesses.
So 32.2% is pretty great and gross margins for these businesses were 51.2%.
So they still are very unique in the industrial world.
We celebrated Neptune's 10th anniversary in December.
Very proud to say that its certainly been one of our incredible acquisitions over the years.
10 years into it the leadership team is still in place with the exception of one retirement.
And looking up we've generated about $3 billion in revenue during that 10-year period with Neptune and very attractive margins.
We saw improvement in our material analysis business at Struers in Denmark.
They're actually much improved in Europe and doing pretty well everywhere as global industrial production picks up.
Our Cornell business continues to capturing customers and had a very strong quarter around orders given rental companies picking up once again and applications for dewatering pumps and irrigation.
And the oil and gas activity which affects Roper Pump remained pretty soft in the quarter.
As we look at this current year 2014 Neptune continues to benefit for the Toronto Project and we expect some growth still out of U.S.
homebuilding which pretty much gives us incremental growth because we have a high percentage share of the installed base in North America and as people build homes they tend to use the same water meter that's already hit in that area.
Roper Pumps' large diameter directional facility is actually up.
It's going to ship its first product in the next two weeks.
We're visiting it.
That's a kick-off thing here about two weeks.
So they expect a much stronger year in '14 and we just came off of in '13 so have the capacity for these larger diameter directional drilling outfits that they're putting in place.
We had modest growth in industrial production which continues to support the material analysis side of our business.
And the cash flow in these businesses we expect to continue to be remarkable.
These businesses collectively and the way we measure cash return on investment are up about 50% and typical industrial businesses around 18% to 25%.
So they're a wonderful group of businesses.
Next slide in RF Technology you can see orders were up 11% revenues up 13% and operating profits up 23%.
We indicated before we thought it would be a strength in the fourth quarter.
It certainly was.
Project activity continues pretty much as we expected around Texas and Virginia and Florida.
The Software Businesses all had relatively good quarters and mid-single-digit growth on the revenue side for them which is pretty good because of all the recurring business they have inside their platforms.
Continued strength in the products side of Radio Frequency Products and some strong growth in our U.K.
Water business.
For next year we enter in the case TransCore with an absolute record backlog and a strong project pipeline.
One of the things that's neat again is we'll be celebrating TransCore's 10th anniversary in December of this year.
So like Neptune 10 years after it we got the margins up and growth sorted out and we'll probably complete about $5 billion in revenue during that 10 year period.
So those have been two really spectacular acquisitions with longevity.
Same story here other than for a couple of retirements leadership team is in place.
We've got George McGraw and Kelly Gravelle Tracy Marks and Joe Grabias and a very strong leadership team.
The next point here is modest increases in the U.K.
gas and water utility business that is better than '13 was.
It's going to help our Technolog business in the U.K.
a bit.
And then the Software businesses all continued to see mid-single-digit growth.
They do have exceptional margins and it's important I think to point out with the cash margins they have that they really drive our overall enterprise growth quite substantially because they support so much of the acquisition investments we could make with the cash these people generate.
Next slide; Medical and Scientific Imaging here is just again long time since we've been able to say what we have at the beginning of this slide.
The Imaging orders were up double digits.
It's not a misprint.
They actually were up double digits.
Organics orders in the overall segment were up 12%.
Organic revenue was down just a little bit with the strength in Medical offset by the revenue decline in Imaging but the order situation we'll remedy that as we go into 2014.
Sunquest had very strong orders.
Their implementation capacity continues to improve which is going to help us a lot in 2014.
Demand is still high with people trying to get in front of the meaningful use requirements.
MHA was very strong across all the alternate site health care locations with long-term pharmacy being out in front.
We're seeing a lot of potential acquisitions in the MHA space.
We've spent most of the second half of this year working with MHA on various acquisition opportunities and haven't closed on any.
But there're certainly a lot exciting things to do out there.
In 2014 we expect imaging to improve with modest growth and easier comps which will make the overall segment easier to talk about.
Double digit revenue growth at Sunquest; we've got record backlog now and as we can continue to implement and build capacity given a strong sales pipeline we think we'll really outperform pretty dramatically with Sunquest.
Verathon is going to pick up in 2014 from a flattish year.
This year they've got new and enhanced products dramatically better quality processes that allow us to differentiate our products a little bit better.
And we've got a lot of confidence in the management team.
We brought a new leader in there in the second half of last year and we've got really quite a fine group of people.
We've structured that business around product lines now.
So people have P&amp;L responsibility that will lower levels in the organization which is always good.
MHA growth continues with new customer additions and very favorable market conditions.
I think as confident as Mike and his team are around that the growth has just been really quite spectacular.
Next slide so here we get into the guidance arena next slide.
So for 2014 guidance the full year we establish at $6.05 to $6.25.
Our assumptions is that revenue would be up 6% to 9% in 2014 and organic revenue would be up somewhere between 4% and 7%.
Pretty much all the businesses are up mid-single-digits but we have double-digit growth of Sunquest and MHA that will move us up to the higher end of that range hopefully.
Operating profit leverage we're assuming is going to be around 35% to 40% next year for that new revenue.
But we do have a headwind that's quite an issue with tax.
So youve got the tax rate looks like it's going to come in between 31% and 31.5% versus 29%.
If we just look at last year's results that's a $0.20 headwind on tax.
So if you look at $6.05 to $6.25 and common size it with the tax rate of the prior year that would be $6.25 to $6.45.
But we can't tell you $6.25 to $6.45 because were going to pay $0.20 more tax.
So its $6.05 to $6.25 folks.
Foreign exchange is assumed to be the same as it was on 12/31.
Diluted share count is about 101 million.
And first quarter guidance we're coming in at $1.30 to $1.35.
That gives us linearity in the year thats consistent with normalized stuff in the past.
Last year the first quarter we had very very low tax rate and well have a more normalized tax rate in the first quarter this year the R&amp;D expenses and various things John can talk about.
Okay next Slide.
We go to the 2013 summary.
Certainly one of the most important things is acquiring a new growth platform in MHA which is creating a lot of opportunities for us and it's another $1 billion addition to the continuing transformation of the company and we feel very good and confident about it.
We achieved record annual results for the enterprise just across the board; orders backlog revenue net earnings EBITDA operating and free cash flow.
For the year orders were up 13% revenue was up 9% gross margin was up 260 basis points to 58.6% for the year.
Operating margin was up 130 basis points to 27%.
Our EBITDA was up $148 million to $1.74 billion and EBITDA margin was up 200 basis points to 32.8%.
We had record cash flow performance.
Operating cash flow for the year was $803 million which is 25% of revenue.
Now usually we tell people that they look at you like that cant be right.
No.
Well it is.
Operating cash flow is 25% of revenue.
Free cash flow is $760 million.
That represents a cash conversion of 141%.
And while we think about cash flow guidance for 2014 I think our view would be that our cash conversion on operating cash flow should be somewhere around 140%.
So you can take that 140% conversion on whatever earnings number you think we have and that gives you a pretty good idea how we're starting out on our cash flow assumptions for 2014.
So we thought it was a great year.
Our operating people really outperformed.
Had some very unusual headwinds that are all gone and behind us and our transformation is certainly on track and we're looking forward to 2014.
So with that we can open up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll take our first question from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
So for my first question is -- well first nice quarter and my first question is really relating to the guidance on the incremental margins.
It seems like the 35% to 40% is slightly lighter than what weve seen in recent years and yet youve continued to acquire software related asset-light businesses that have higher margins.
I would have thought the margins would have been a little bit higher.
So there seems to be a touch of conservativeness there.
Can you just comment on the incremental that youre expecting and why 35% to 40% is the right number? In the fourth quarter I think it ran 37% for operating leverage.
There's a lot of amortization and these are non-cash.
And so I think John can walk you through the forward mile but we may be conservative.
I hope we're conservative but it is what it is.
I think we're still -- Im still flummoxed by the tax rate because we've got Sunquest and MHA which are our fastest growing businesses paying 40% tax.
All right John go ahead.
So it's true that Sunquest and MHA are our fastest growing businesses but as you know their revenue base isn't all that large.
So on a V basis that's definitely nice and of course on a cash basis it's even better.
But we also do expect to have growth across the enterprise not just in our software business.
So we're expecting to see continued growth in our RF segment particularly in the first half as we complete some of the projects that we have going on and of course project revenue comes in a little lighter than some of our product revenue and definitely lighter than our software revenue.
But I think that -- I think the 35% to 40% is right down the middle with respect to what we've been able to demonstrate and what we see as far as the backlog and the growth and where it's coming from in '14.
And I guess one follow-up question.
Perhaps Brian you can comment on the acquisition pipeline.
Clearly it's an important part of the story.
It seems like you're well positioned in the first half of the year to do another large acquisition.
And so perhaps you can just comment on what you're seeing in the pipeline today and what your thoughts on the market are.
Everything is for sale at the moment.
I don't think Ive ever seen as many properties that are for sale.
Also we have never seen private equity as aggressive as they are.
On pricing were still getting 7 7.5 times debt staples on everything that's out there.
I think putting it a little bit equity and it lines up with pretty high stuff.
We remain really disciplined.
I think that we will do we would expect to do a large acquisition in 2014.
We never have a timeline established about whether that's any particular point in time but we're sitting here with a net debt to EBITDA like 1.9 times and were already going to generate about $800 million $900 million or more of new cash.
So we're very well positioned to be able to do $1 billion plus type acquisition.
In the last several months weve actually looked at a number of things that we thought would be quite in the $400 million to $600 million arena but it is remarkable what some people have paid.
We walked away from two deals one that looked attractive but somebody paid 22 times trailing for it and the other one somebody paid 23 times trailing.
I dont think thats a new standard but it just shows you the assets we're looking at are highly highly sought after.
So they always have to fit through this perfect hole we have.
So the management teams needs to want to be part of Roper and we need one -- we need that management team to -- we want to have them be part of Roper.
We have looked at a couple of very large transactions larger than weve done previously and I wouldn't rule that out.
So I think the pipeline is more than adequate.
Its a more competitive process than it has been for a long time and as long as high yield debt is in our view mispriced thats going to be headwind for everybody.
We'll take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Hey Brian I think you may have answered this question and Id like to hear some specifics from John.
But the issue with the tax coming up you said I believe it was the Sunquest and MHA being taxed at 40%.
So was it a mix issue thats driving the higher tax rate and is there any opportunity for any other tax strategies throughout the year? So the second part first.
Yes there are always things that were looking at nothing that weve really baked into the guidance for '14 yet.
But just to break down the increase in the tax rate about half of it so we're going from 29% up to call it 31% to 31.5% range.
About half of that increase is just changes in U.S.
tax law which is the R&amp;D tax credit not being extended into 2014 and combined with last year we had the benefit of not only 2013 but also 2012 for R&amp;D tax credit and a variety of other things that were expended on January 1 of '13.
So they rolled into '13 instead of being in '12.
So that's about half of the increase.
We did have some tax planning initiatives that benefitted 2013 that are not expected to continue and the rest of it is the mix that Brian was talking about.
We're just growing faster in the U.S.
and that's where we expected to see the growth coming from in '14 and the marginal tax rate in the U.S.
approaches 40%.
So that pushes our tax rate up a little bit also.
But we have things that we're looking at.
We have projects that we're evaluating in ways to obviously always in compliance with the law but to be able to minimize taxes wherever we can and we'll update you as some of those are successful.
Great.
Then over on the businesses the two areas that had been the softest over the past couple of quarters Zetec and Imaging both sounded a bit better.
Maybe you'd take us through the next level of detail on Zetec.
What were the orders in the quarter and has there been any pricing giveback as you try to reload the backlog for this business? Not for Zetec.
A lot of Zetec is service work and the rest are probes that are now used and those are reasonable margin business banks anyway.
It's just -- we had things that were going to start up that didn't.
Of course that really caused us to change our view in the third quarter.
Orders came back stronger than we expected even though they're flattish but they're not going down.
And we had a one-time large thing that happened in the fourth quarter with Zetec so to be able to recover from that which was a sale in the prior year of some assets.
That was a big deal.
On the Imaging front the orders picking up 12% was a pleasant surprise.
So what if anything's changed about the government investments and what's going to happen in academic research and changes with NIH and more funding perhaps in 2014.
It's hard to say but all those businesses appear to be past their worst performance pattern.
We've made a couple of people changes inside those businesses that hopefully are paying off already.
So we'll see but it should not be a drag on 2014.
We'll take our next question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Out of the $3.3 billion or so in revenue you've been in 2013 how much of that would you say is from -- in two buckets; software plus SaaS in one bucket and then other recurring revenue sources in the other? Software the (inaudible) -- if you look at the application software businesses I always say -- yeah I'll put TransCore into this activity because all the ITS stuff just like we had a press release.
We announced that we're doing special traffic analytics and controlling all the red lights in a huge area around Sundays Super Bowl.
You can't do that without software.
Now there's human involvement too.
So you're not making a disc and sending it out but it is application software and ITS is probably our large dollar revenue business.
So I didn't include it in there John hence did not include it in there.
So it depends who you ask but as far as I'm concerned -- I think you have Brian so he'll give the answer.
If you look just like the SaaS businesses pure software businesses we get more than a fourth of the Company's EBITDA out of that.
In reality you really look at all of our application Software businesses Compressor Controls for instance is an application software business.
It would be much closer to half or more of the total family of activity.
Here you didn't ask but it's a more interesting thing.
We've been looking at these GICS codes for a variety of reasons and we have a GICS code established which is electronic components or electrical components.
So we looked at that.
We don't have a single Roper business that's in that category not one.
So Forrest ranking them our biggest area is application software.
Our next biggest area is health care systems.
Our next biggest area is health care products and then an equivalent thing the line of electronic instrumentation that would be more like the adjunct type of activity and not much of that goes into Industrial activity.
And then we've got about somewhere between 11% and 13% that goes into Energy equipment because really our fluid handling businesses are much more oriented around Energy activity particularly with fracing now than they used to be.
And so the core industrial concept of making stuff for OEMs or making the industrial product is less than 5% of the enterprise now.
And then just one easy follow-up John there was a little bit of a spike in corporate expense in the fourth quarter is that sort of the run rate to think about or did you have a couple million of M&amp;A related expense in there? So I would probably say yes to both of those things.
We'd be looking at some level of acquisitions like that's a part of our normal ongoing corporate activity.
It will go up and down though.
So it may not always hit in every single quarter.
So I think building that in on an annual basis is fine but being able to predict when that's going to happen on a quarterly basis is not quite as easy.
Now also a piece of the growth on a year-over-year basis more so than our sequential basis is the increase in our stock price and the associated increase in equity and expense associated with that.
We hope to continue that as well.
We'll take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Just thinking about the sequential dynamics and what happens seasonally here.
You guys had a pretty weak first quarter last year on organic down so really there's some lumpy businesses in your portfolio at least with last year in 2013 there were a few lumpy ones.
How do we think about the organic growth dynamics in the first quarter or the first half versus the second half? I would assume that with the easy comp the first half would be at the higher end of the range? It's a good question.
The last year -- Q1 was negative organic of 3% on orders and Q2 was plus 1% and Q3 was plus 3% and Q4 was plus 4%.
So I think we view our organic ought to be in this 4% to 7% throughout the year.
Its plus or minus 5% every quarter.
So we don't see massive trend change.
We do have a -- we should have a decent first quarter with some of the project work that we're doing.
So I don't think there's a huge seasonality variant there versus whatever seasonality we have we'd expect it to be up 5% 6% 7% quarter-over-quarter throughout the year.
So the easy comp doesn't help your -- you're not going to be at the high end or above the high end of that range in the first quarter despite the easy comp? Yeah I think that's true.
So lets think about that easy comp for a second.
So that easy comp really was our Neptune business which had a lost customer.
So it showed the decline particularly in the first two or three quarters last year.
So we do expect Industrial to be very good against a relatively easy comp in the first quarter.
Other parts of our enterprise particularly as we're building capacity around implementations at Sunquest introduction of a couple of new products the Verathon as well as continuing to build momentum in the project work in our Energy Systems business particularly in the CCC application software business.
So those areas are probably a little bit more toward the back end.
So we have the easier comp on the Industrial in the first half but more of a ramp-up that we see towards the backend on Energy and Medical specifically.
So that balances out.
One last to just follow up; any mix considerations either positive or negative from the moving parts of this year on an organic basis; better margin or worse margin businesses coming back? Margins are remarkably similar other than the pure software businesses.
I mean they are all pretty good.
It's like EBITDA in Industrial 32% right.
So the lower margin business would be Imaging which is a relatively small part of the total but if you're still looking at mid-20s in Imaging.
So as things grow the big issue with mix is if we've done instead of software or hardware applications in Radio Frequency with TransCore you get into design issues and some actual human labor in getting things installed which all is bad margin business but its part of the price you pay for the total.
So some of those are really teens type margins and others would be broker type margins.
One last very quick one.
Looking back at '13 it was obviously a little more choppy than I think a lot of us would have expected especially from you guys.
Did that change your view at all on hey let's get back on the horse here and so let's set an appropriate -- be a little more appropriate in setting the targets this year or you view '13 as really a non-issue and just when thinking about setting expectations for '14? '13 had these three unusual things in it.
So we had the customer issue at Neptune the non-recurring multiyear contract and we've gotten through that.
So it's no longer a negative.
So that helps organic for this next year.
We had Zetec which was a second half of the year negative that was impossible to predict it can't get worse literally so we're in pretty good shape there.
Then we had a vendor issue in the second quarter which we've never had in the time I've been here and that's behind us.
We've eaten that.
So that will on a GAAP basis I think we're going to look quite strong in 2014 versus '13.
We had most of our business reviews for '14 and I think we all walk away feeling like there's a lot of optimism in the field.
But our guidance is conservative because of this $0.20 tax hit right.
So $6.05 to $6.25 is the equivalent of $6.45.
So it's the tax that's causing us the angst of going into 2014.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Congratulations on the 10 year anniversaries on those big businesses.
I was also wondering though that is often a cliff point for some level of amortization.
Is there a significant inflection down in amortization in either or both of those businesses here in '14? Jeff no not really.
Most of the amortization associated with those things it was either customer related or technology related that was amortizing has already rolled off.
We have a modest amount that will give us a slight pickup at the Neptune business but not very much.
I was just wondering Brian just when you look across the health care businesses here as we're just in the teeth of Obamacare rolling out and all this various uncertainty is there any -- obviously you had the order pickup in the Imaging businesses but is there any discernible change in behavior in the marketplace you're seeing from your customers or through the supply chain or anything? Vitriol is going up with customers or as gentlemen you mentioned is to healthcare program but for business it doesn't really affect us that much.
I mean our products are all going into situations that are not Affordable Care Act driven behaviors.
And the Sunquest situation is an enabling technology for compliance with regulations in addition to helping hospitals run better.
So actually we're not really seeing anything there.
We had the Medicare tax the cost taxes (inaudible) products.
We try to keep that neutral inside the business which has been a little bit challenging but generally come out okay.
So I don't really think there's anything -- if something changes with this in the next two years it shouldn't really have a positive or negative effect on our results.
And then finally I dont know Zetec maybe and that isnt worth two questions on the conference call but the outlook there do you see anything coming out of Japan? Obviously there's a lot of debate about whether they start the nukes or not.
Is that any part of your view of the business there and how significant could that be? This is a really small business and this business is well under $100 million in total revenue and half of its sensors that get used to different stuff.
So there is very little materiality in that.
It really is just  I don't think there's much that would happen globally or would have any material effect on Roper in any way around Zetec.
This year for the full year it's certainly pulled down the Energy segment quite a bit.
But Zetec is less than 10% of the Energy segment and half of it is really sensors that can be used in all other kinds of industrial activity and half or 60% in nuclear.
So it's just not material.
We'll take our next question from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
So Brian you did the walk by the quarters for Steve on how the organic growth range transpires through the years.
Wondering if we could do that walk by the segments how they stack up against one another? So yeah I can do that for you.
In general our expectation is for about the same amount of full year growth out of each of the segments but a little more out of Medical and Scientific Imaging.
So from that standpoint Medical and Scientific because of obviously the backlog at Sunquest the continued growth there around compliance with some of the regulations and as people are just wanting to have upgrades and other functionality.
So I dont want to put too much on to the regulation its also about increased functionality.
So we see that plus the continued growth on the MHA side and some new product introductions.
So we do expect more growth out of Medical than we would see out of the other three.
The other three are about the same.
Interesting to hear that Industrial Tech would be grouped in as about the same.
That's encouraging.
And then on RF youve had four quarters in a row now with record operating margin.
Just wondering if you could put a little narrative behind that; do you still see runway with that segment in the margin performance? Im sorry Chris.
What segment was that? RF.
So once again with our expectation around leverage of being somewhere between 35% and 40% that gives continued opportunity for margin expansion.
Now thats not necessarily true for every single business right some of our businesses are operating at 60% plus margins.
We're not looking for margin expansion there.
We're looking for more growth but for those businesses they're operating a little below our overage as they continue to grow they bring the margin profile up accordingly and that's really where we see in most of the opportunity on the leverage and margin expansion side.
We'll take our next question from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
Looking at the double-digit orders growth in Medical and Imaging I think you probably already answered this.
How is that playing out in sales? A lot of those orders are going to come in first half or is it pretty even throughout the year? As in relates to Sunquest they're continuing to build capacity -- human capacity to help people with their implementations.
And so those implementations things are directly related to how quick client can get it installed.
So they're less time sensitive as opposed to say it's got to get done in the year types of projects.
It certainly involves manpower in the hospital involves manpower in us and we've been building those teams very very fast.
So I think if the clients are ready to start implementing off those orders this is a year we'll have double-digit revenue growth and order growth may or may not reach that.
So the backlog is really what provides so much safety around Sunquest double-digit growth this year.
So would you say as your portfolio has shifted with the increased number of software companies it sure seems like maybe in the past you'd been maybe more of a book and ship on the orders it's fair to say that your orders maybe are lumpier but sales are still relatively even it's fair to say? Yeah.
We were looking at that preparing for the call.
I mean we've already entered the year with about a third of the full year backlog accomplished.
So you'd still have to book and ship two-thirds of the full year's guidance on revenue within the year itself.
We do have a lot more recurring revenue.
So what we don't report -- we only report orders if they're going to ship within a 12-month period.
So there's a lot of backlog that we never identify as backlog until the cycle has come up for the year.
So we know there's a lot of recurring revenue particularly in Radio Frequency and in Medical.
So the book and ship is more around Industrial and Energy.
And in the application software side of the business in Energy we can look very easily at six months out maybe even eight months out.
So it's the rest of those businesses which maybe 35% in the enterprise that are booked and shipped within a quarter.
We'll take our next question from Richard Eastman with Robert Baird.
Just a couple of things.
On the Industrial Tech side I presume given your segment lock-up on the growth rate John you're expecting Industrial Tech to grow maybe at the 4% number maybe the lower end.
I'm just curious within that business is it a macro expectation? Obviously we've all seen industrial production numbers trending higher.
That's the material side of the businesses.
Is it mainly just a macro driver there; home starts IP for that Industrial Tech business? So for those two portions yes.
The fluid handling portion is not as much macro as it is specific around oil and gas and some new product introductions and expansion of our own capacity in order to meet the customer demand thats been there for a while.
So I'd say its more in our control on the fluid handling side more on the Industrial production and housing starts at the margin for the Neptune and the instrument side.
Your guys in the fields expect that front end O&amp;G business to be healthier for '14? Modestly particularly around directional drilling not as much around rig count increase but around feet drilled and the horizontal drilling and thats really where more of our applications are going whether that's on the water side for Cornell or its on the actual power section side for Roper Pumps.
And then just within the Energy business when I look at the gross margin which was fantastic for not just the quarter but the full year does that continue to have an upward bias given that more of that is Compressor Controls software applications? Should we just continue to expect that to see drift higher the gross margin there? The fourth quarter is always the best margin performance for our Energy segment particularly as instruments are sold.
We still have some customer buying behavior which is more year-end budget consumption activity where theyre trying to make sure they use all of what was budgeted for the year.
So the fourth quarter is always disproportionately high in terms of instrument sales and the volume associated with that helps the gross margin as well.
Even though we don't have a lot of factories we do get a little bit of absorption benefit as the volume goes up.
So that's really what's driving that margin expansion.
In addition to just some of the new products that are being introduced are a little bit higher margin than the things that they're replacing but I would say that that is incremental growth on the gross margin side and the operating leverage that we get from that growth is going to drive the bottom-line performance.
And then just last question John could you provide us the GAAP EBIT contribution for MHA in the fourth quarter either in dollars or percent? There was really no difference on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for MHA at this point.
I think we disclosed when we acquired the business that it was a very healthy margin 2 times the Company average on an EBITDA basis.
I'll have to get back with you on exactly how much the amortization is associated with that but I think you can probably get there just in terms of the change in amortization from Q2 to Q3 but we'll follow-up with you on that specific question.
That will end our question and answer session for this call.
We will now turn the call back over to Mr.
John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you Mary and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We look forward to talking to you in another three months.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
The Roper Industries' First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
All participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being record.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our first quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci who heads our Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also on our website at www.roperind.com.
Next slide.
So we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed on our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you'll please turn to Slide 3 today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on a GAAP basis.
Prior period results are presented on an adjusted basis for comparison purposes.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation which is available on our website.
Now if you'll please turn to slide I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
So we'll go through the first quarter enterprise financial results first and then we'll take a look at the detail around each of our four segments and the outlook for those four segments for the second quarter and the full year as a total and then what our Q2 guidance is.
As you know we're raising our guidance here for the full year.
And then have a Q&amp;A session.
So next slide.
Here we'll look at the summary of the enterprise financial results.
We had once again all-time records for orders and backlog.
And revenue net earnings EBITDA cash flow everything at an all-time record level really terrific quarter.
Revenue was up 13% with organic revenue up 7% and the book-to-bill was above 1 at 1.01.
If you look at GAAP to non-GAAP numbers they actually came at about the same at 13% revenue up.
Gross margin was up 120 basis points to 58.6%.
I hope you're shocked to see our gross margin.
And there's some reversion to a mean of those industrial companies that people look at.
But we're not really an industrial company anymore and our 58.6% gross margin is in fact up 120 basis points.
If you looked at GAAP to GAAP it would have been up 140 basis points.
Our EBITDA was up 19% to $274 million and our EBITDA margin was up 180 basis points to 32.8%.
If you looked at GAAP to GAAP it would have been up 21%.
Our earnings before tax which is a really important number this time around are up 24% to $205 million.
You may remember that a lot of people ourselves included in the first quarter of 2013 benefited from the expenders in the tax program and double-dip benefit on R&amp;D tax credits and they'll benefit yet this year.
And we had a discrete item this quarter that benefited us by $0.06 despite the headwind that we had.
Our operating cash flow was also up 24%.
So the operating cash flow and the earnings before tax were virtually identical.
Free cash flow was up 26% to $202 million.
So it's a great start for the year.
Next slide.
Here if we look at the income statement you can see orders came in at $846 million giving us a book-to-bill of 1.01 against the revenue of $834 million.
I will talk about growth here in just a minute.
The gross margin as we said was up 120 basis points.
Operating income increased by 18.3%.
On a GAAP to GAAP basis it was over 20%.
Operating margin was at 26.8% up 130 basis points.
And the earnings before tax number was up 24%.
As we said the tax rate you can see the difference here.
Last year was 23.1%.
This year it's 28.2%.
So that's 510 basis point headwind into the quarter compared to last year but that was an unrealistic expectation.
And in fact our 28.2% was a little bit better on the tax side than our guidance had anticipated.
If you do look at 28.2% in common size over the first quarter of last year our earnings would have been $1.18 not $1.27.
And we compare that with $1.46 we're up 23%.
Next slide.
On the EBITDA growth and margin expansion our long-term sustainable trends continued.
You see our trailing 12 months EBITDA is now at $1.118 billion.
That's up 35% in the last two years from $830 million.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA margin is now at 33.2% up 320 basis points from just two years ago.
And if you really want to see the power of our Roper business model and how the CRI tools work all you have to do is go back to 2010 with our year-end EBITDA was at 26.7% compared to our closing year-end EBITDA this past year in 2013 of 32.8%.
And you see 610 basis points of improvement.
And compare that to the S&amp;P 500 on gross margins which are around 28% in those periods.
Next slide.
If you look at our cash flow results you see once again terrific results accelerating activity.
We had $213 million in operating cash flow in the quarter which was over 25% of sales.
Cash conversion was 144%.
And on a free cash flow basis we generated $202 million of free cash flow and conversion was 137%.
We earned $1.46 on a diluted basis but if you look at that conversion of 137% you can do the math and see what the free cash flow per share was.
That's really a direct result of how great each of these individual businesses that we have really are and their ability to deploy our CRI tools and discipline to create these sustainable cash flows.
As a percent of revenue you can see free cash flow for the last 12 months has now been 24% of revenue.
We said in this year's annual report and repeated here in the takeaway that we believe cash is the best measure of performance.
And I guess we're maybe as timely just put that on everyone of our slides that we believe cash is the measure of performance.
Next slide.
Asset-light business model well just to demonstrate even when you get these very low levels there's room for improvement.
If you look at the first quarter in 2012 our inventory was running 7.5% of sales.
And here we are two years later at 6.3% of sales.
Receivables have gone from 16.9% to 18.2%.
That's actually favorable because unbilled receivables are in that number.
And that's why we look at the deferred revenue aspect of things.
Payables and accruals are at 18.2%.
So they're up nicely giving us the inventory plus receivables minus payables on accruals line there at 6.3% of revenue down 320 basis points from just two years ago.
So for those people who think we can't continue to improve we just want to demonstrate that the processes we have do create really unusual values.
Next slide.
Strong financial position I think our press release indicates it's best in our history from a balance sheet viewpoint.
Last May we acquired MHA for $1 billion.
So we've been able to self-fund virtually that entire $1 billion acquisition during the course of the year.
You can see our cash is now up to $503 million and an undrawn revolver of $1.4 billion.
So we have $1.9 billion of immediate liquidity here.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA is up from $950 million $1.118 billion.
So the gross debt number EBITDA is about 2.1 versus 2.0 a year ago.
After investing $1.07 billion last year we would say that we would expect to do the same thing during the next 12 months probably even a greater amount of investment here in capital deployment.
Next slide.
We'll move here into the segment detail and look at each of the individual businesses.
So next slide we'll start with an overview of how widespread the growth was here in the quarter.
On the left-hand side of this chart you can see the organic growth by segment.
Energy was up 5% and Medical &amp; Imaging up 7% RF up 8% Industrial Technology up 9%.
Industrial Technology is primarily Neptune including handling.
About a quarter of Industrial Technology is actually industrial businesses that are instrumentation businesses.
All the rest are really water including handling.
In the RF segment which was up 8% that's really the toll business our SaaS software businesses are CBORD and Horizon legacy software businesses and then just a modest amount of products.
Medical &amp; Imaging is really split between the medical IT business which is the largest amount the medical products business and some scientific instrumentation a little bit of cameras.
And in Energy that 5% growth comes from about two-thirds of segment is energy related and one-third of that segment is really industrial related.
If you look on the right-hand side and you see the revenue by region we actually had favorable organic revenue in every region in the world.
The US which is about 61% of revenue in Canada which is about 6% of revenue came in at up 7%.
And then Europe which includes Russia by the way which is up 6% with Russia being a modest portion of the $125 million in revenue in Europe.
Asia was up 9% with Japan and China being those two biggest areas.
And the rest of the world was up 7%.
We report the Middle East and Africa in the rest of the world which is a big portion of that total revenue.
Next slide.
By the way currency I should just mention currency currently is like 20 basis points.
It was pretty much all in Canada where it depressed our organic revenue.
But as an enterprise it was only at 20 bps negative.
So pretty much a neutral.
Next slide we'll look first here at the Energy Systems &amp; Controls segment.
That generated $37 million in operating profit on $155 million of revenue which is almost 24% OP margin.
The organic growth was up 5% that was led by our compressor controls continued to grow in Asia and in the Middle East.
We had very solid sales of new instruments for our refinery operations which sometimes can be pretty cyclical.
The Zetec performance improved so it wasn't as big a drag on the business and we'll talk about that in a minute getting much better throughout the year.
And then our Advanced Sensors acquisition which came in right at the end of last year which was $50 million investment in offshore technology is very interesting technology.
The integration process is underway there and it will take through the second half before we turn that business into a more profitable entity.
So it was a bit of a drag on margins in the first quarter.
In the second quarter and throughout the year we expect the oil and gas portions of our Energy segment to be up high single-digits 8% 9% led mostly by the liquid natural gas pipeline activity and the field services associated with the things we do there.
The Zetec outlook is much more encouraging.
It'll support second half organic growth.
It was a drag last year in the second half.
And the segment in total will be on target for record performance in 2014.
And just as a reminder that segment which is about 15% of the operating profit of the company it's divided sort of two-thirds to energy and one-third to industrial.
Next slide is our Industrial Technology segment.
Here we reported $56 million of operating profit on $197 million in revenue.
Industrial Technology is about 23% of the operating profit of the enterprise.
We had double-digit growth in Neptune and continued margin expansion at Neptune.
There's comments from certain competitors that are inconsistent with that but we're right they're wrong.
Higher material analysis revenues at Struers for both equipment and consumables the equipment is a big deal because Struers has been living on consumable growth for a while and equipment revenues have been sharply around the world.
So that really bodes well for the rest of the year at Struers.
And our Roper Pumps' Houston facility was opened.
In fact all of our senior leaders toured that facility in the first quarter.
It's a very impressing operation.
A lot of customers have been through now saying it's the best-in-class operation of its site anywhere in the world.
And we expect that to start to manifest itself in double-digit growth here in the rest of the year which will improve our margins.
That startup costs are what brought down the margin in the first quarter by a modest amount but that will easily be past us.
In Cornell which continues to perform remarkably well had a big quarter with rental markets all of which we think probably bodes well for the energy side of the activity we have in industrial.
We look at the second half of the year.
We're seeing Roper Pumps' capacity increase will drive share gains against particular competitors.
It will lead to double-digit growth for us at Roper Pumps and it'll improve our margins in that business which were already quite sizeable.
Neptune strength we expect to continue.
So we get reasonable numbers on new housing starts and continued build-outs and replacement of old meters and continued deployment in Canada and other systems that we've won.
We see modest global industrial production continuing to be up which helps drive our material analysis business.
And on balance just continued growth throughout the sector strong margins and cash performance throughout the year.
Next slide.
Here we look at the Radio Frequency technology segment.
This delivered about $63 million in operating profit on $226 million in revenue.
So the revenue all organic was up 8%.
The toll and traffic business remained very strong had double-digit growth in the quarter primarily in three areas our Florida all-electronic tolling conversion projects Texas expansion and upgrades to the technology and higher tag shipments in Florida Texas and California.
CBORD performed particularly well in the quarter as its recurring revenue was up nicely from some of these project installs we've had over the last several years in a terrific confirmation for continuing license agreements and maintenance with people.
And then we had the modest growth we traditionally see out of our SaaS businesses which had really amazing an exceptional leverage and cash flow contribution that helps us reinvest to drive our overall growth in the entity.
In the remainder of the year we think Transcore's backlog will support its continued growth.
Project work is continuing as expected throughout the balance of the year from anything we can see.
And our quotation activity around the world on projects remains very strong and that's encouraging.
In the software businesses they're continuing to grow with exceptional margins and we're really starting to see end user increase drive activity.
Many times in these businesses it becomes the early adopters or people who really need to have technological advantage in competing.
And now the followers are jumping on the bandwagon demanding some access to open solutions and being the best provider for those where our demand and quotations are up at best levels ever.
Our college and university hosting activities have been increasing normally.
In the past they were more reluctant to do hosting than there have been recently and that may be a positive long-term uptick for us.
Next slide.
Here we look at the Medical &amp; Scientific Imaging business.
It really is a medical business.
Imaging is kind of split in two pieces out scientific business with Gatan and then the camera businesses.
Those things together are less than 25% of the segment.
So medical is 75% and it's split between medical IP businesses and the medical product businesses.
Organic revenue was up 7% in the quarter.
So we had double-digit revenue growth at Sunquest as our implementation improvements have really taken hold.
We have more people deployed and we have faster turnarounds on them.
MHA continued to benefit from favorable end-markets.
The trends and the share gains that they have are driving growth certainly ahead of plan.
We've got solid execution growth across all of our medical device platforms with just extraordinary performance from Northern Digital in the first quarter of the year more than double-digit growth there.
Our imaging businesses were better led by growth in Gatan so that eased the drag that that has had on our segment in the past and we expect that to continue for the rest of the year.
But we also expect double-digit growth out of Sunquest.
We've record backlog at the moment.
And we got a terrific sales funnel.
That organization continues to mature and deploy resources effectively.
So it's going to have really quite exceptional year in 2014.
MHA continues as expected.
We think the momentum and everything around its core businesses are solid.
We have new and enhanced products at Verathon which are kind of game changing.
The early acceptors of that as we've been showing is high.
And we expect that will drive revenue throughout the rest of this year.
And then we think the imaging businesses for the first time in a long time will have some modest growth that will make the overall segment look better.
Gross margins in that segment are very very high and the EBITDA margins for this segment came in at this time at 43.9%.
Next slide.
So here as we look at the guidance outlook for the business as a whole next slide gets into the detail.
We're raising the guidance from what it had been $6.05 to $6.25 for the year to $6.22 to $6.36 on the year.
It's a $0.14 increase at midpoint.
Our full year tax rate we still expect to be about 31%.
It was a little lower 28% in the first quarter and likely to be closer to 31% in Q2 and unfortunately a little bit higher in the balance of the year.
We also think our organic revenue certainly at the bottom will be higher than expected.
So we've raised our guidance there from 4% to 7% to 5% to 7%.
And established Q2 GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.46 to $1.51.
But as always we would tell you that that's an interesting number but you should follow the cash.
Next slide.
If you look at our first quarter we gad record results in just about every category that you can find.
Revenue again was up 13%.
Our gross margin was up 120 basis points and operating margin up 130 basis points.
EBITDA appeared a run rate far in excess of $1 billion a year.
EBITDA margin at 32.8% compared to the S&amp;P 500 industrial gross margins of 28% which tells you something about how great the businesses we have on our portfolio are.
Our operating cash flow was up 24% to $213 million.
And the operating cash flow conversion rate we said before was 144%.
Free cash flow conversion at 137% on $202 million divided by the shares get you really a spectacular number.
And even our net earnings are up to 171.7% of revenue which is far and away best-in-class.
Excellent start to the year.
We've raised the guidance.
We think the full year will be pretty spectacular as well.
And with that we'd like to open it up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) We'll have our first question from Deane Dray Citi Research.
Solid operating performance across the board whether you look at topline incrementals or cash.
On the look-forward Brian you mentioned the $1.7 billion was what you've invested in the last 12 months.
You can do that or better in the next 12 months.
Maybe some color on the pipeline and maybe address the challenges of how you positioned against private equity bidders.
So It was $1.07 billion not $1.70 billion.
So we did $1 billion-and-change and $50 million-and-change for Advanced Sensors.
So we did $1 billion deal in total $1.07 billion.
We'd expect to do at least that much over the next 12 months.
In terms of what's going on with private equity basically the debt staples from the banks remain extraordinarily high frequently.
There are seven times debt to EBITDA almost always some number close to that.
And their ability to refinance is exceptionally high.
So that puts a lot of pressure around prices paid for assets.
We've said for a while that gross premium on the tails of those kind of assets are pretty risky but they're pretty low cost.
So those guys are going to continue to stand in rapid rate paying a lot of money for the things that they're doing.
The kind of businesses that we acquire from (inaudible) aren't really expected by that so much because when they're exiting particular investment cycle and and sell the business any way if the business fits in our categories and meets our standards and the management team it is something that we think works with us we still have the competitive advantage of being able to deploy capital to buy those assets.
So we actually are seeing as much now as we ever have seen in terms of attractive and available things.
We don't have a timetable for when our next capital deployment would be but we're active on a lot of different things.
And I'm sure within next 12 months you'd find us deploying more capital than we did in the prior year.
And then just on the businesses I know there's lots of attention about the addition of Sunquest and MHA but the legacy Software as a Service business CBORD maybe you can clarify the point on hosting.
So I understand access control.
I understand the driving haul.
I understand the credit card.
But maybe you can expand on the term of hosting activity.
What CBORD is at the core a license software company with maintenance and annual fees and revenues and renewals of what we have because of some of the other things we've done and the ability to convert many more people to a hosted service just like a typical SaaS business would be that we have in an iTrade operation or (inaudible).
We continue to look at acquisitions that are in those spaces.
And we think some of the budget pressure around college and universities is getting them to find it easier to do some of the work that we do for them in the cloud where they haven't done much.
And we're offering them solutions that they find easy to migrate to.
So we have been encouraged by people asking us if we could do more in that arena.
Switching is those businesses it's got a really high switching cost.
So it gives us a leg up relative to other people who're trying to enter that market.
And just to clarify what percent of that CBORD base today is on a hosted basis and what are the economics? It's still a pretty little number.
It's less than 5% of their base primarily in one of their applications called NetMenu which is really around menu planning and nutritional information and being able to kind of be the front end of starting that food supply chain through those campus locations.
And as far as the economics are concerned I mean economics are really good for CBORD whether you're going with the traditional license plus ongoing maintenance for a more SaaS-based.
There's really no different than the customer acquisition cost.
And so it's probably a little bit higher but a little bit load upfront.
But largely the economics are going to look very similar to the underlying economics for the CBORD business.
And our next question will come from Mark Douglas Longbow Research.
Looking at your guidance on the organic growth 1Q was the easiest comp and your guidance implies organic growth and continue to maintain this close to the 7% level your comps are getting more challenged in the second half.
Just dive a little bit more into what's giving the confidence in the second half do you think that'd be that strong do you some things in the backlog? Sure.
First of all I know what the numbers say but I'm not sure I would agree with the easy comp in Q1 only because Q1 last year was when we had the biggest variance associated with that loss customer (inaudible).
It was not like it was artificially depressed.
It just got the run rate as of last year.
And we did build some momentum throughout the year.
So in some cases you're correct.
But based upon yet another quarter where the book-to-bill is above 1 so we did build some backlog even with the tremendous 7% organic growth in the first quarter.
It gives us the confidence.
We have continued visibility pretty good visibility within our toll and traffic area parts of our energy in the market we have pretty good visibility on.
And it's just continued momentum on execution particularly on medical platform where we not only have the backlog associated with Sunquest and deploying new upgrades to their software customers but also a couple of new products that are being introduced in our medical products area that we think is going to drive incremental growth there also.
So it's the totality of backlog plus ongoing momentum inside of our key end markets.
Talking about the pumps market curious what's happening in the underlying market.
Are you looking at low single-digit growth mid single just trying to get a sense of how much of your double-digit growth is new product launch an increased capacity versus just a product mix maybe outgrowing the market or seems like you're outgrowing the market? Well I think that we have three discrete pump businesses each of the three should have a record year this year each one for different reason.
So we have Allweiler pumps in Germany which is we don't talk a lot about that has strong demand drivers in India.
And it's kind slurry pumps and things that have to do with moving anything from a mining [ph] capacity or whatever.
That business is up a little bit.
Then we have our double-digit reference that we made to Roper Pumps where we've been capacity constrained in larger diameter directional drilling things and that's what this factory solved.
So as that comes will this be taking share from other applications without naming customers would large cables so that's kind of a guaranteed upside to us.
And the underlying core business is okay as well probably more high single-digit growth in that Roper Pumps business.
And then Cornell has fluctuations around rental markets when people are looking to waste water markets and putting together platforms and if you get a little bit more activity of background fracking in gas and they are benefited by that.
And it's got a big business in agricultural irrigation projects.
It's pretty much a domestic business a little bit in the Middle East.
So it's growing.
But I think there've been some people that are in similar spaces to Cornell.
We've had pretty decent growth in the first quarter as well.
We have our next question from Jeff Sprague Vertical Research.
Just a couple of questions.
Brian just wondering on medical margins.
This is kind of two quarters in a row kind of in the 35% ballpark extraordinarily strong.
I was wondering if there's something mixed effects of something that causes the step-up to this level or is this kind of normalized run rate we should think about going forward? Well if you look at those gross profit margins in those businesses and our ability to execute that probably would answer that question.
It is not going to have a lot of difficulty maintaining and improving its margins.
The business is well over 75% healthcare IT and medical products now as opposed to being one very strong business like Gatan and scientific instruments and the camera businesses which have high gross margins but have high R&amp;D expenses usually double-digit R&amp;D as a function of sales for those businesses because of high price cycles.
So yeah we would expect to have very very solid margins in the healthcare IT businesses like Sunquest and MHA.
And then just coming back around the deals I mean what you said earlier to Deane's question pretty straightforward but you do sound more confident.
Just kind of reading some of the transcripts from the (inaudible) and everything it sounds like you're viewing things as much more difficult maybe to get done.
What else has changed? Is the complexion of what's available out of private equity changing or is there some other dynamic that raises your confidence level a little bit? I wouldn't say that.
I think that we've come close to doing a couple of larger transactions in the first part of the year that for a variety of reasons didn't occur.
But yet we're always involved in things that look pretty attractive and we're aware of things that are happening later on this year that are attractive.
There are different reasons why private equity is selling assets.
And it's the end of life of a fund and they've got to sell as opposed to recap they've gone through an unusual period where the cost of debt is so low and the risks and the mezzanine pieces are so mispriced that it's easy for them to recap stuff.
But they can't recap that forever.
They got to cut the core and if they need the management team to stay in place then there're only a few people around Oh my gosh that are in the business of acquiring great management teams and making it better.
And so that's why we're confident that we're always able to execute and capital deployment.
It's just we don't have a budgeted timeframe for saying let's do $250 million a quarter or we're going to say no let's do $1 billion $1.5 billion or more a year.
We'll go next to Matt Summerville KeyBanc.
Just a couple of questions first on Neptune.
That business is up double-digits again.
Brian or John how much of that would you say is market-related versus market share and why or why not should we expect that to continue? Inside the quarter I'm not sure I can make the split between market versus market share.
And we continue to execute in Canada for a large Toronto project at a pretty healthy rate.
So that's helpful.
We generally take a little bit wider lens on the market share question.
And I would not say that that has substantially changed.
So I suspect most of this is going to be market-driven but quarter-to-quarter based upon how projects are rolling out new rollouts of fixed network or mobile network implementation of the various cities we'll move that a little bit.
But we're still in the high-30% share range for Neptune.
And there's one of the things that we like about that are switching costs are pretty high.
We have a pretty good representation in those areas that are probably disproportionately affected by new housing starts.
So that probably over time gives us a little bit of tailwind.
If you have new housing starts that are on the uptick as opposed to where they were for a couple of years we're likely to have a disproportionate share of that because of where new housing starts are.
So we have a higher share in places that require water meters because of our technology being dramatically superior to other people's performance.
So if you have a hard out location and you're building in the Southeast or Southwest we're going to have higher than our national share.
So we just automatically gain at the expense of others as new housing starts are on the uptick.
And then just lastly with respect to Verathon can you provide a little more granularity into some of the new products you're launching there and then just maybe a brief update on what you're seeing in your Dynisco business? Sure I'll take the second one first.
I mean Dynisco is doing just fine.
It's a more industrial-focused areas as Brian was talking about inside our energy segment.
It was up in a low single-digit range in the first quarter.
Pretty good operating performance margins was up a little bit.
With respect to Verathon what they're doing is really a refresh of a couple of their product lines coming out with a titanium GlideScope.
So it removes some of the plastic.
It actually makes it slightly smaller for the intubation insertion which is a big deal for the doctors and a big deal for the emergency responders.
So that's small size difference is actually quite significant in terms of the success rate of being able to have a success for intubation.
And then also a little bit later a redesigned BladderScan unit that has significantly higher reliability and performance and ease of use for the nurses.
So it's really a refresh of the existing product lines but with some real fundamental game changers particularly on the GlideScope side.
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa JPMorgan.
You actually had mentioned I think in mid-March you guys were talking about some potential for weather-related disruptions didn't seem to be the case but maybe you could just expand on that maybe you recouped all that in March or something like that just kind of curious.
I think we certainly didn't expect a lot of trouble from the poor weather but we had to run some over time but it really worked itself out.
We had a little bit more backlog at Neptune than we otherwise would have had but there wasn't anything material about weather.
It's not some big windfall would get from additional shipments in the second quarter helped a little bit in that respect but not much.
And the costs that we had were immaterial.
And then just moving to the businesses on the traditional kind of imaging side it sounds like you guys are a little more positive on that.
I think that was hit hard by the NIH budget last year.
Any updates on that business? Yeah we did better in Japan and had a quite robust Q1 with Japan.
But most of those businesses are really non-US businesses other than NIH here.
They're okay.
They will perform at the lowest level of incremental change or positive organic that we have in the company that may have decent fees relative to last year being a very good year.
But you have to remember that more than 75% of that business is really all healthcare.
Imaging is sort of split.
So you got maybe 10% or so in cameras and 10% or so or a little more than that Gatan in completely different world-class business.
The cameras are the ones that really are always waiting on maybe expanding out of Japan and something from China and NIH here.
So those are the ones that have the cyclical risk not the other half which is Gatan.
When I look out to next year with the rate guidance now saying the Street number for next year looks like it's I don't know like 5% to 7% EPS growth.
There're been a lot that's moved around in your businesses and you had a couple of businesses fall off last year.
Maybe there're some moving parts that I'm not accounting for but is there something about the margins you guys are putting out means your next year be an unusually weak margin year? I mean it seems like the organic growth is holding up in kind of the mid 5% to 7% range.
So that kind of number would imply very limited margin improvement and obviously nobody is taking any kind of real incremental acquisition accretion.
So is there anything kind of like unusual about the organic profile you guys put up this quarter and kind of this year that shouldn't kind of carry into the next year? The number seems very low 5% to 7% EPS growth seems very low.
We never put any guidance around EPS growth for 2015.
But we'd say we'd expect to do 1.5 to 2 times GDP certainly have done a little bit better than that now and we might continue to do better for all of this year could be all of the next year.
I think there's a reasonable optimism at the part of our field people.
We just maybe do things a little different than some people.
We went through our planning process for this year in February.
We don't do it in the fourth quarter because our bonuses are an incremental change year-over-year not planned performance.
So we don't pay off budget plans.
We'd be hard pressed to name a business that sees any fall off in 2015 from the planning cycle but that's a long way away.
We'll go next to Christopher Glynn Oppenheimer.
Wanted to extend these questions there if you comment for the revenues 1.5 to 2 times GDP.
Is there a sort of a 1.-something to put on EPS relative to topline growth over the cycle? Look what we have generally wanted to guide folks the way to think about that incremental growth is given our margin profile we would expect that next dollar of revenue to convert to the pre-tax line at somewhere between $0.30 and $0.40 maybe a little bit higher than that in some years but not lower than that.
And so I think if you run the math using that and this is not really a time for us to be thinking much about 2015.
The detailed discussions and strategic plan reviews that we have with our businesses to be able to have a much more informed view of 2015 and beyond but that's much later in the year.
And then on RF I'm wondering if the linearity changed at all.
You had anticipated heavy project breadth in the first half.
Now it sounds like things may be spreading out a little bit more throughout the balance of the year.
We still expect RF to be strong in the first half than the second half.
And we started some of these projects toward the second half of last year.
But overall of course with the balance of revenue coming from all of our segments we still feel comfortable that the 5% to 7% for the full year is generally where all four of the segments will be probably a little bit higher than that in medical.
But the other three segments will be in that range of 5% to 7% for the full year.
We'll go next to Richard Eastman Robert W.
Baird.
Just a quick question.
On the energy business when I look in the quarter and I look at the order number were there any timing issues there or were you comfortable with the orders in the quarter? Sequentially it looked like perhaps were there any weather impact or anything that maybe held those back a little bit in the quarter? No I don't think there is anything there.
Energy's order flow is a little more like our (inaudible) CCC which is a large player in it.
It could be really lumpy.
I mean they could get a $20 million order that didn't happen in Q1 and happens in Q2.
And it doesn't mean anything.
You have to look at that over a kind of 12 month trending period and a trend for them is certainly up.
And then also in IT business the margins are good but maybe down a little bit year-over-year.
And is that piece of the business is that where you saw a little bit of weather impact on the margins just curious how you looked at the margins there in the quarter.
Now that's just Roper Pumps starting up Houston.
You really have all the expense at the startup but we take that period cost and just barely getting started on shipments.
So that will write itself right away as we start to ship our product.
Brian I noticed in the proxy that Roper has petitioned for a change in its gig code.
And I'm curious it wasn't mentioned to what but are we thinking medical technology are we thinking software? Our primary gig code is now our application software medical and healthcare IT medical products and there's some analytical instrumentation I'm not sure what that gigs code is.
But because we have a lot of diversity the two places they obviously put us into financial almost capital markets thing which is where I think they finally just put (inaudible).
But in our case they didn't have to put us in a conglomerate category so we'll be with Danaher and GE and United Technology and there's like almost six people in there.
But unfortunately they're quite large.
I think Carlyle might be in there I don't know.
But that's what we would expect that we would go into the industrial conglomerates I think it's called.
And we would expect that to be announced by the end of the month I think.
We'll just say to make sure from a proxy point we were an electronic components or something.
We don't have a single business in the gigs code to which we were assigned not a single one.
Alex Blanton Clear Harbor Asset Management.
I wanted to ask you about what you said about the Roper Pumps facility in Houston because that was your original business and that was originally acquired before you went public by (inaudible) 30 years ago and under continuous improvement you're still improving it apparently.
Could you tell us exactly why your customers are saying that that's a real class best-in-class facility in the world? Because the situation is we got several products in Roper Pumps some of which are OEM products and some which are now products for the fracking operations where they're doing drilling.
So one of the things that happened is one of the large people in the space acquired another company Robbins &amp; Myers.
I think there are some customers who (inaudible) think they'd rather buy from maybe some other person like us.
So we've been approached by people about could we do larger diameter products than we do in our Commerce Georgia facility which is the founding operation of Roper back in the reference you have.
And we've had difficulty doing these larger things because you got to have a couple of cranes.
You need some automation.
Got to have special heat-treat situations we need to do.
And we had our Alpha instruments business which is part of Dynisco acquisition that's an instrument company that is a very knowledgeable about rubber and latex.
And they came up with a way for us to have a substance that wraps the product that we're making here in a way that allows it to operate at faster speeds and in higher rates of temperature.
So it's an entirely new technology for the industry.
And that facility will be sole sourced on providing those larger diameter products in that arena.
And as it comes online it will gain share from people that have less effective products now.
And then they get used quickly.
They have a short life.
And so they get realigned so by moving to Texas we're close to the market where people can ship back the drills that can get realigned and go back for second use applications.
The second question is about what you said about the Russian business.
What are you doing in Russia? And also Asia was up 9%.
What's the biggest contribution you're getting from Asia? Well in Asia there's three areas of growth for us.
I mean everything grows a little bit here.
But you have Japan was up this past year on technological purchases.
China was up modestly.
And India was up sharply somewhat with our pump businesses actually and some instrumentation businesses.
So those are the three bellwethers there.
In Europe we did $125 million of revenue in the second quarter and $5 million of that was Russia.
So going back to your day so you would remember with Gazprom being the single most important entity that affected Roper most of the '90s is an irrelevant factor today.
So Russia was 4% of the European activity.
And how that'll do over the balance of the year with whatever is going to happen politically will be interesting but it's nothing it used to be where if you had a problem in Russia in Roper in 1995 the business was threat.
So that seg is a little bit with Gazprom? No not necessarily.
There are people who serve the install base.
And so we have products that go into.
We also have some products that still go into Russia.
So it's just in the energy segment.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We will now return to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And once again thank you all for joining us this morning.
We look forward to talking to you at the end of our second quarter.
Have a good day.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
Roper Industries' Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call will begin now.
I will turn the call over to Mr.
John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tina and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss results of our record second quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci who Heads our Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for today's call.
In addition we have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also on our website at www.roperind.com.
Next slide we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you'll please turn to slide three today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on a GAAP basis.
Prior period results are presented on an adjusted basis for comparison purposes.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation on our website.
Now if you'll please turn to slide I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our participants.
Brian? Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
So we open up here if we look at our enterprise financial results for the quarter they were once again truly outstanding.
We had all time record orders record backlog closing out the quarter record revenue within the quarter record net earnings in a quarter and of course another record for EBITDA performance.
Our revenue was up 13% in the quarter on a GAAP basis but 10% on an adjusted basis which is the way we really look at the quarter.
Organic revenue was quite substantial plus 8%.
For us it was very broad based all four segments were up organically which was nice to see but certainly medical and RF had blow up kind of performance on an organic basis.
Our gross margins just continued to go up.
It is a remarkable achievement up 120 basis points to 59.1% which is really why we call a Roper Technologies this days and not Roper Industries.
Operating profits up 18% to $247 million in the second quarter.
Our operating margins up another 180 basis points clearly above the gross margin improvement and 120 basis points and operating margin came in at 27.9% which includes a lot of amortization too.
Hope so you add that on top of I know the number is even stronger.
Our DEPS in the quarter on an adjusted basis were $1.56 GAAP against last years adjusted number were up 19% on a GAAP basis GAAP to GAAP were up 41%.
And operating cash flow in the quarter was an additional $141 million which was 14% better than the prior year.
So we are very well-positioned to show record year in 2014 for the company along with delivering just an outstanding second quarter.
Next slide if we look at the income statement you can see that even though we had a very strong revenue quarter up 10% with organic gain.
Our book-to-bill was virtually 1 little bit of lumpiness in RF with TransCore.
We will talk about but thats not unusual.
If we look at the gross profit as we said it went up from 57.9% in the second quarter of last year to 59.1% in this quarter and operating margin went up from 26.1% last year to 27.9% this year interest expense was a tagged less and our tax rate was just little bit lower than it was a year ago 70 bps.
Net earnings we talked about it $156 versus $131 were really again broad based on a segment by segment basis.
Nest slide here if we look at the EBITDA growth and the trend in the company.
We tend to show you a couple years of trailing results at a time pretty well served to remained people if you go back to 2003 our EBITDA was about $125 million not the $1 153 billion that you see now on a trailing basis.
And our EBITDA margins were in the high-teens not the 33.5% you see today.
So thats why the company really has become much more of the technology company with higher margins more sustained than continued performance.
And these very high margins up 420 basis points on an EBITDA basis and the last two years alone really allow us to reinvest internally for growth at a much faster pace than Roper would have been able to do 10 years ago or even five years ago.
If you look at the gross margins which were probably I dont talk enough about you can see in 2012 trailing 12 months performance was 54.6% gross margins.
Back in the 10 years ago gross margins were always higher at Roper say 50% or so.
But certainly didnt have the kind of reinvestment in gross strategy back than that we do today.
450 basis point improvements in gross margin is something we are very proud of over the last two years.
Next slide if we look at the cash flow cash flow in the quarter $414 million of operating cash flow and $130 million free cash flow really resulted from the fact that we had very little cash tax due in the first quarter about $25 million and we had $132 million of cash tax here.
As economics patriots we are.
So you wind up with quite a high.
Now the tax paid in second quarter.
Its about $107 million more than it was in the first.
Those things tend to level themselves out over the course of the year.
Our first half operating cash flow you could see represents 21% of revenue at $353 million and our free cash flow at $333 million is up 15% over last year.
We expect outstanding cash conversion throughout remainder of the year and our total operating cash flow to revenue will be as it has been in years past continuing to grow.
In the metric you see here $845 million of operating cash in the last 12 months and thats up from $620 million just two years ago so 36% improvement in operating cash flow during that two-year period.
Next slide we look at the asset like business again astonishingly good numbers.
Two years ago we were below 10% and people were marveling about our ability to get there.
But we certainly havent given up any of our internal strategy so you can see we reduced inventory from 7.2% of revenue two years ago to 6% now and our payables and accruals have expanded from what they were two years ago.
You can see that the networking capital the way we define it inventory plus receivables minus payables on accrual has dropped from 9.5% to 6.2% so thats 35% improvement in just two years.
On next slide if we look at the balance sheet the strong financial performance always gets best scene when you compare your balance sheets.
The year ago our cash was $375 million today its $565 million and our undrawn revolver is virtually at -- they just very little grown against it.
So it gives us a cash and undrawn revolver flexibility to invest $2 billion.
More importantly you can see the gross debt has dropped by $513 million even after doing the $1 billion MHA acquisition last year.
So we continue to pay down debt pretty quickly.
The gross debt-to-EBITDA number is below 2 1.9 our willingness to have a debt level than that our debt tolerances is certainly much higher than the kind of number you see here and that coupled with the reality of having a couple of billion dollars to deploy.
We would expect to have pretty rapid cash deployment aggressively over the next few quarters.
We would -- we think you will see some things now and some things later in the year and much larger things probably next year.
Next slide here we look at the segment detail for each one of the business.
Next slide looking at energy systems and controls you can see was up organically 5%.
Again had strong revenue out of our compressor controls business driven by both midstream and downstream installations.
We had decent growth in our instruments and consumables business and service for refineries.
And then we had much better demand certainly kind of resurgence in Canada with oilsand activity and various things that have to do with.
Our pressures sensors we have and things that have to do with these line in shutoff valves and what have you.
Our book-to-bill in the second quarter even though organic was up 5% was still at 1%.
You can see total revenue was up 7% a little bit of contribution from small acquisition we made last year.
Operating profit up 8% and OP margin improved little bit to 27%.
Organic growth in the second half of the year for energy we think to be pretty strong in the third quarter probably a little less than that in the fourth quarter.
But over the balance of the year should be fine.
We do have this sort of mid single-digit outlook for the segment for the entire year.
I would be better if we saw return to large project activity thats pretty slow you can see that with everybody thats in the oil and gas side of activity.
The geopolitical ambiguity that could get worse could create project timing issues and slow decision making.
Notwithstanding that everything else is strong so the aftermarket products doing very well field service is also doing well.
We have an easy comp in the second half of this year because Zetec will be back to its sort of normal type of activity which will be substantial increase over last years this point third quarter.
And the oil and gas end markets remained pretty favorable particularly with the oilsands getting stronger and the prices associated with Canadian products going up.
Next slide we look here industrial technology youll see we had continued great results out of Neptune.
They grew revenue and also had better margins in the quarter.
U.S.
was particular strong for Neptune and Neptune was awarded an Amazon Web Services Award for whats call the City on the Cloud Invocation Challenge.
They have a program called N_SIGHT which is trademark N_SIGHT IQ which helps municipal water companies manage the flood of water data that they get which there sort of really equip to deal with and this allows us either to host or provide software that makes it easer for them to understand the data that they have and respond the questions about from users.
I believe there is a I think you can see YouTube video about that too.
Roper Pumps continues to have great business in the Directional Drilling Applications that weve talked about in the past.
They continue to gain share from other people.
And our Material Analysis business stores at Denmark had particularly strong equipment orders and sales of their Hardness Testers which is good news on that handle of their lower margin items and it did impact their margin some as equipment grew much faster than the consumables and thats something we think will rectify itself in the second half.
I would point out Industrial Tech which had operating margins of 29.5% which are beyond world-class and they were up 100 basis points sequentially from our first quarter operating margins.
In the second half of the year we think well have little bit better organic growth in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter.
Some of those businesses tend to get year end benefits.
We expect for the balance of the second half to have kind of mid single-digit revenue growth in the segment but with very strong margins and excellent cash contribution from the segment in the second half.
Two double-digit growth type things are our Cornell pump business is going to have very strong second half as the rental market continues to add capacity for pumping stations we are tracking back alive and well.
And Roper Pumps strong demand and increased capacity means we will grow double digits there and we will have better margins as they get leverage out of that growth certainly stronger than it was in the second half of 2013.
Next slide.
Here if we look at the RF Technology businesses everything in here is quite spectacular although we had fairly soft booking -- book-to-bill period the segment came in at 0.96 which is certainly not unusual.
But everything else was really just amazing.
We had an absolute all-time record for TransCore in terms of revenue for the toll and traffic operations the projects that were underway in Florida Texas and California Virginia all performed very well.
Actually Q2 enjoyed some pull-in from project execution effectiveness that we would have not expected until end of the third quarter so that benefited us in the second quarter.
We had some really important wins in the area.
We got San Francisco Bay area expressly in convergence which were extremely hard thought by everybody in the industry and we were selected that will be over a $50 million project.
We got the Massachusetts Department of Transportation back off extended thats a big contract over a decade 250 million bucks.
Weve got the Henry Hudson Bridge which is very strategic thing because New York New Jersey tolling is the largest agency in the country and thats not an agency we have had much with.
So again our technology being preempted allows us to kind of get a foot in the door there which will be a -- we think forward predictor of how well we are going to do there over the next several years.
We had great tag shipments in the second quarter which benefited the revenue which you can see is up 10% OP up 17% in the quarter.
We also had some strong sales out of our RF security products for all of us who go through airports and look at the TSA agents who probably dont know that now everyone will have little pendent so people know little bit more about whats going on there and we received the award for those pendants which will start to ship here in the second half of the year.
Our SaaS business is continued to grow so to modestly in the quarter but they are growing.
The College &amp; University Security Projects though were little lower than last year because we have finished North Eastern University which was a very big install profitability was actually better for CBORD because the installation business is always carries a very modest margins but the revenue was not up a lot in the quarter for that.
In the second half of the year we will expect kind of low signal-digit growth.
Weve got a couple of headwinds that are probably going to pull down our overall organic growth but well grow organically in the half of 2014.
Our Toll and Traffic projects are going to continue to remain at high levels but we saw a lot of those last year so the comps will be a little bit more difficult even though the numbers will be high.
And iTrade was able to make an acquisition that closed on July 2nd called Foodlink.
This was really a technology acquisition that reminds us of United Toll Services for TransCore.
And what they do is they provide the traceability sort of a farm to fourth basis so we are from the grower if you will to the in-store purchaser of products which are fresh and one wants to know where they came from and how long they have been in transit and all this traceability factors are things that iTrade could acquire from others but now will have its own technology be able to do this makes it much easier for the stores to deal with iTrade on a broader network basis.
So were encouraged by that.
Our next slide.
We look at the Medical and Scientific Imaging segment.
You can see it just continues to be spectacular.
The organic growth in the second quarter is up 12% after being up 7% in the first quarter suddenly led by medical.
Sunquest had an all-time record quarter.
There is meaningful use implementation and our ability to approve Sunquests ability to execute really paying huge dividends now lot of upgrades in the hospitals.
And we continue to invest very aggressively internally in Sunquest to capture more of the anatomic pathology and genomic testing opportunities that we see ahead.
Thats lot of internal investment in there but were also very active in the acquisition pipeline area around those areas.
Weve had very strong performance at MHA with a lot of new members acquired for both long-term care pharmacies and long term care facilities that results in management area and facilities that are encouraging for them.
We also had that double-digit growth at Verathon with new and enhanced products.
There are several things weve talked about and in the second half youll see this Titanium GlideScope which is kind of a break through product for certain applications.
Well continue to drive that growth and enhance it in the second half.
Our Northern Digital business image-guided surgical had a phenomenal quarter and based on orders and their flow of activity looks to continue that throughout the second half of the year and Scientific Imaging continue to improve up kind of mid-single digits in the quarter on a revenue basis.
In the second half of the year we probably come in just under double-digit growth just with imaging continues to be modest grower where as the rest of medical we expect to have double-digit growth.
New and enhanced medical products and measurement were about Verathons titanium GlideScope being the biggest single product but there are actually quite a few others and enhancement made to our BladderScan product.
Both Sunquest and MHA will deliver double-digit growth in the second half and that certainly means more than 10%.
And then I would say -- I would expect that youd see announcements from us throughout the year about possible things and that will have occurred in the acquisition pipeline area.
There is a lot of very attractive small companies that were working with and a few larger ones as well.
So were very encouraged by whats going on in the space.
Our next slide if we look at the guidance update.
Turn to next slide we are increasing the full-year DEPS guidance from $6.22 on the low end of $6.27 and high end to $6.37.
We think revenue grow should come in for the four year around the 8% to 9% and organic growth should be around 6% to 7%.
Now the organic growth when we started the year at the end of 2013 January quarter we are established organic guidance of 4% to 7% and then as we went into the second quarter we move the organic guidance up to 5% to 7% as we had -- continue to see more strength.
And then now were moving it up to 6% to 7% for the full year with the 8% growth we enjoyed in the second quarter.
So the organic growth has been very strong through out the year for us.
Tax rate for the full year we think it will be around 31% it was 30.4% I believe in Q2.
We have some FIN 48 roll-offs that occurred in the third quarter last year thats probably going to make it difficult to have a tax rate thats as low as the 30.3% we enjoyed last year.
So were going in with the assumption it will be about 32% which will cost us a few pennies in the quarter.
Revenue growth in the third quarter those should be up 5% or 6%.
So we established DEPS guidance here at $1.49 to $1.53 and I think our revenue in the third quarter will be somewhat similar little bit above hopefully in Q3 which is sort of a typical very new pattern for us but certainly up nicely from the third quarter of last year.
Our next slide.
If we look at the summary for the second quarter it was just an extraordinarily great quarter for us.
In addition to having all these nominal numbers of records with orders and revenue and backlog and net earnings and EBITDA the variables were really good with the revenue up 10% gross margin up 120 to 59.1% operating margins up 180 bps to 27.9%.
The leverage was just phenomenal in the quarter.
For those of you who are without your calculator youll see our operating leverage was about 46% in the second quarter which is why getting any nominal growth is so powerful here at Roper.
Our EBITDA was up 14% to $295 million and weve raised our full year guidance and we had just an excellent first half performance with these record margins of organic growth.
We think our full year cash conversion will again be outstanding like it was last year.
And our current acquisitions discussions remain mostly in the medical and software they are very active with lots of opportunity and have very powerful balance sheet to take advantage of them.
So with that John I think were positioned for both a record year and questions from the investment community.
Okay Tina can you go and start the question-and-answer period? Yes.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Well take our first question from Matt Summerville with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Couple of questions first Brian can you talk about the sustainability you see in the growth youre experiencing in Sunquest and MHA just looking out over the next couple of years? And also sort of fold into that what you think is going on with market share.
And I obviously recognize there is a larger recurring revenue component here.
So I just want to get a feel for what you think these normalize out? Well were going to expect double-digit growth for some time out of Sunquest that areas that were taking them into are very exciting areas.
There is a lot of opportunity in the short run.
You get the benefit from meaningful use requirements to take care of government regulation and in the long run you get many new forms of testing with us having just a very unique way to capture that.
So were very positive about the long-term prospects for Sunquest whether it turns out to be a high single-digit grower over the next five years or modest double-digit grower or substantially more its hard to say.
It generates lot of cash.
It gives us a lot of money to add from acquisition view point and certainly when I think about what well do organically there plus the acquisitions were going to make in that space it will be one of those if not the most exciting business we have along with MHA.
And just as a follow-up youve definitely seen more incrementally upbeats on you M&amp;A prospects looking out over the next couple of quarters.
Can you talk about on the relative size of the assets youre looking to acquire the multiples and that you might -- would be willing to pay here knowing this is a tough environment? Well we could but it wouldnt be our interest to what sellers know what we might be willing to pay for anything about.
So -- Matt its hard to say but we said generally we like to not pay over 10 or 11 times first year EBITDA thats something thats absolutely true.
Yeah sometimes you maybe a little higher and sometimes you maybe lower but if you look at a blended basis we think we need to be investing at a clip thats $1 billion to $1.5 billion a year and sometimes were ahead of that behind it and there will be different price values based on the kind of cash flows that we can see from businesses.
But over time we still kind of think of modeling our acquisition growth with debt-to-EBITDA somewhere around 3 or less could be higher from time to time and looking to have a blended acquisition first year number around 11 but it could be higher.
And were trailing -- selling in a trailing 15 times enterprise value multiple and the people that are like us in market place many of them are 20 to 25 times.
So these are very high value to assets.
But I would have to say that were not seeing difficulty again in what we think it will be our ability to close transactions in the next several months having to do with pricing.
I think pricings are high but rationale.
Great.
Thats all I need.
Thanks Brian.
Well take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey good morning Deane.
While were on the topic of M&amp;A just if you would clarify one point here Brian because definitely youre standing little bit more positive in your ability to close deals.
So whats changed in past quarter in terms of your being more optimistic here? It didnt sound like pricing has changed but is it the availability of assets and more active discussions but certainly you can see something has changed? Id like to say that we like to mix the things that were involved with and we feel like were making a lot of progress and talking to people we havent decided whether theyre ready to engage or not.
So that all feels pretty good.
Usually when we get -- as we get further and further down the line there is a lot of people that have an orientation.
They wanted to get something done before the end of the year.
So its getting closer than the end of the year and there is a kind of seasonality that probably shouldnt be there that is.
And the things that were involved with now that we really like more diligence we do the better we feel about them.
And so those are all encouraging.
And there is just a lot to say I think that youve got unbelievably powerful management teams in some of these arenas.
In medical arena and some of the software arena so we have that really give us an ability to make bolt-on things for these guys that frankly we didnt have before we have these two big legs in-house.
And so when you get back to being able to pick up some really great businesses that not each one is a $1.5 billion that we have to drive it increases your confidence about being able to execute and deploy cash.
We need to deploy cash in the next year.
Were not interested in sitting on a balance sheet with gross debt-to-EBITDA at 1.9 or net debt at 1.5.
Thats in our view not acceptable.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And could you clarify on the RF business you mentioned there were some poll-ins related to project effectiveness.
Just kind of flash out that point what were the businesses and can you quantify that portion that was build in? Its pretty much all the TransCore project businesses which John if you want to give Dean.
Yeah.
So we have a number of projects there underway in Virginia as well as in Florida.
I dont really think of them as poll-ins.
Its just that the revenue was recognized in the second quarter.
We probably would have expected a little bit at the end of the third quarter.
It wasnt anything we tried to do but just because of the effectiveness of completing and getting milestones on those projects with a little more revenue to what we would have expected for the second quarter.
Would that be reflected in lower third quarter or the TransCore business or would we not see that blip? No there is probably not as much growth as what we would have thought three months ago.
So we had a little more in second quarter may be a little less than the third quarter but still for the year we can -- we continue to see our total traffic business performing extremely well with a very nice growth.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Steve Tusa JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning Steve.
Just on the guidance when you tweaked up the organic growth rate for the year up to the high end and you barely budge the EPS number with your conversion rates being extremely strong at 50% or so.
I would have expected maybe at least a nickel or dime with the additional revenue.
I dont think there is a change in tax rate.
There is something on mix and margin thats going to change here in the second half? I wouldnt say so.
I mean what it is is that our range of particular outcomes on the organic roadside and we just continue to move towards the higher end of that range because the performance that weve been able to post in both the first and the second quarter.
So weve been mostly done in the second quarter that wont we expected but the second half still looks very consistent with kind of what weve seen throughout the year.
So we wouldnt read too much into that.
Okay.
And then I guess just on the same kind of lot of question here third quarter I mean I think its been a while since your earnings were -- didnt grow nicely from the second to third quarter just kind of from season perspective yet.
Youre kind of guiding something thats more flattish to even maybe down a little bit again.
Is there something -- is there a specific couple of businesses? Or on the margin front but that we should be looking at to justify that? Our test business is expected to be higher so our taxes are expected to be higher in the third quarter than the one Right.
Okay.
So its just the tax dynamic I think sales as well though.
I mean your sales are guided to be flat as well flattish.
I think on a sequential basis sales will be a little higher than they were in the second quarter but not dramatically higher in the second quarter.
And part of that is what were saying where youve got some revenue recognition in the second quarter around the TransCore project so that it does in fact taken away from the third quarter when that would be there.
So we look at two quarters together our guidance is kind of about where it would have been for although just we raised the bottom in quite a bit because its already in the back.
Right.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And just one last quick on the acquisition front I would say this is kind of the material change in what youre saying versus what youre saying several months ago when you really were talking about the pricing environment being very tough.
And then you talked about the size of the deals some smaller ones closing near term larger ones next year.
Why -- is it just takes a longer the large ones longer to get done or is that just something about how the way the M&amp;A environment kind of unfold in cycles where the smaller ones go first and then the larger ones? I dont know Im just kind of curious as to why the difference in comments around the size of the deals.
I dont think that there is any seasonality related to the size.
There is a desire for lot of people if there is a market with asset they want to get it done generally before the end of the year for lots of reasons.
So there is an opportunity to close more towards the end of the year.
If you look at our history over time you see a lot of the things that happen in the last quarter of the year.
In terms of the size of deals I mean most of the things that weve been looking at this year are relatively large but we have so many more smaller things that we can tucked in to an MHA and to a Sunquest that weve been willing to look at those things which frankly we would have not paid a lot of energy to that because we would have thought that we didnt need another $100 million business here and another $80 million business here unless we had a leadership team that can assimilate those in a very good way.
So we are encouraged by that and weve added an awful lot of strength to those two businesses in terms of people and leadership and capability.
So that probably is as much of reason why I sound the way I do about that because of our confidence in the leadership in those companies.
And then at the beginning of the year there were -- there certainly were large deals that we were interested in that we thought were going at high-teens multiples from an adjusted EBITDA basis that our diligence wasnt willing to buy into the adjustments.
So I think there is a little bit more clarity on the part of people about what they think they are going to do for the balance of this year and what they are going to do for the balance of next year and diligence process is coming in with the more realistic outcome than guys trying to tell you this trees are going to the moon and they are not.
They are a little more realistic.
And we said for long time that things like junk bonds and CCC debt and subordinated.
This crazy crazy crazy risk factors relative to where they trade on the pricing and start to see some erosion in that finally.
So that changes attitudes instantly.
Right.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
We will take our next question from Joe Ritchie Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Joe.
So the first question I guess just talking about M&amp;A it does sound pretty encouraging how optimistic you are about getting the deals done.
I guess is there way you can quantify over the next 12 months how much you can get done? And clearly your balance sheet is in great shape.
It seems like the pipeline is strong.
And the follow-on beyond that is the focus has really been on the medical and scientific imaging is that squarely where you are looking at today? Or are there areas across the rest of your portfolio where you are looking at due diligence as well? Well we look at a lot of different areas but the reality is that the economic performance and cash on cash returns in medical and software just blow away the stuff that is generally available in energy or in any kind of core industrial business.
So weve enjoyed great growth in our pump businesses record level growth but they take a lot of assets.
So they dont provide same level of cash on cash return that our software businesses do or that our medical businesses do.
So we look at a lot of stuff but the stuff that tends to get through the filter we -- our overall company has a cash return on it gross investment of over 100%.
If you look at probably the single best multi industry guide that companies in the 40s so we see a lot of incoming stuff but generally if they are going to have cash returns in the 20s they are not going to join our family.
So its just the dynamic of the economic performance of the businesses that keeps us so active in the medical and software.
And if you look at the next several quarters over the next two years we view what expect we would -- we set for long time we deploy $5 billion over the next four or five years we would expect to deploy at least $1 billion to $1.5 billion every year but its always lumpy about when that will happen.
So I think that there are few things that we will probably do relatively quickly and then there will be other things that we will reach in over time whether that happens in the next six months or the next 12 months is impossible to predict.
And whether you do something for $100 million or you do something for a $1 billion on the timeline at which comes next is also impossible to predict because we will have offers to acquire things in which we are doing diligence some which will be at a $100 million and others will be at a $1 billion.
So were never in control of that dynamic.
Thats helpful color Brian.
And my follow-on question is around the drop to margins clearly the incrementals were really strong this quarter at 46%.
I think last quarter we were talking about an incremental range of 35% 40%.
So my question was was there anything specific about the quarter that helped use the margin this quarter and how should we then think about your incremental margins moving forward.
Is 35% 40% the appropriate way to think about it or your business is really just kind of operating on all cylinders and maybe a higher range is appropriate at this time? No I think we think 35% 40% is appropriate guidance for people over time.
Were always going to have mix variance second quarter on our company.
It gets a lot of renewals in the software business gets a lot of things happen in Q2.
Q3 is really not as active Q4 then it gets to be really big because all kinds of year end MRO and investments occur in the first quarter.
I think our leverage was something like 37% and that was outstanding.
This was extraordinary.
And if it happens again we will take it.
And just one follow-on question I guess on the margins for industrial tech.
This is a margin that you call about a few things in the quarter.
The operating margins have been down now for I think six quarters in a row on a year-over-year basis and things that it sounds like they are getting better at Cornell pump.
Should we start to see margin expansion in this business moving forward? I always react to that because I believe that the operating margins in the business are pretty close to the gross margin of everybody that they compete with.
So thinking about the 29.5% operating margins in that business and wondering if they could get better seems to me to be unrealistic but we could deliver you never know.
These are the best industrial businesses known to anyone Im aware of.
If you got anybody thats got margins that look like these please send us.
All right.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And our next question from Chris Glynn Oppenheimer.
Hello.
A very nice year-over-year expansion.
Just wondering how to think about the dynamic there of mix versus core incremental margins? Clearly volume helped but we talked about mix a lot with this business in the past.
Im sorry Chris.
The first part of your question we didnt catch so which particular segment are you referring to? Yeah.
John this is RF and historically as the margins have moved mix has been a big part of the discussion.
So Im just wondering if there is a way to think about core volume leverage since you did have good volumes and the margins were up nicely.
Yeah.
Theyre really not a good way to think about that because of the vast difference in the underlying margin structure across this segment.
The software business is the incrementals they are coming much higher particularly for their software renewals and the expansion.
Their software if its installations its lower of course on the toll and traffic side you also have the similar dynamic in terms of whether its tags and readers which because of the technology and the investment they make they carry higher gross margins versus the service and ongoing work.
So I would love to give you the rule of thumb but I just dont have one so based upon the relative contribution of our toll and traffic project business versus the technology that delivered through hardware or software.
Right.
Yeah.
Just struck me with toll and traffic leading to growth and then near record margins but understood there is mix within that as well.
And if I just follow up on that it was especially strong in terms of the delivery of hardware and tags our Amtech business which is part of toll and traffic just had a phenomenal quarter particularly with the continuing tag upgrade project in Florida.
Okay.
And then we got some good color on the long run expectations for MHA and Sunquest.
Verathon has got some things going on.
Was wondering if we could get a similar commentary on Verathon Northern digital type businesses? So hope those have very good tailwind but for different reasons.
So in terms of Northern Digital and the technology that they enable for image-guided surgery so they have just a preeminent position inside image-guided surgery for what they are able to accomplish and thats just the continuing growth in that market and because of their dominant share they continue to benefit from that.
Verathon on the other hand is really more of introduction of new and enhanced products when going through what is just a world class sales organization.
And so therefore for different reasons we expect both of those businesses to continue to have high-single-digit growth going forward for quite a long time I think.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Well take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Two questions Brian we heard you complain about your tax rate through years actually and here is the discussion about M&amp;A and the focus on healthcare and probably one of my question is going.
I mean is there a way to do something a little bit more creative with the corporate structure the tax structure of the company? The answer could be that there a lot of different things.
As the topic (indiscernible) specifically today with a few other people of course are more and more inversions with the portion of the company or something.
Weve had a bright path to the door from people try to tell us about this that and the other.
Usually theyre talking of businesses that are really pathetic and so the concept of doing something purely for taxes is not something were going to do.
It needs to be a solid business.
It is hard for people to find businesses like ours.
Its pretty unique to find a molding industry player thats got 59% gross margins and 33% EBITDA margins and has more than 20% cash to sales and find a partner with it.
So we were still blessed with massive cash performance.
And so as interest cost goes up for other people that are doing acquisitions prices come down and were the biggest beneficiary thats because we self fund most of everything we do and if we went out far in a billion or two and at the moment it is pretty modest.
So were in a very very good position probably the best weve ever been in to do transactions.
And if something came along that was a partial inversion with one of the businesses we wouldnt necessarily rejected but putting one of our great businesses with something thats not very exciting because you might be able to save some tax in an environment thats pretty ambiguous is not a good strategy in our view.
What weve said and we always say is there are to be a much better concept around corporate tax rates.
And were having to pay a tax rate like ours when we compete in the global market is tough but a lot of our businesses even though 40% of the revenue is not in the United States.
A lot of the best performing cash generated businesses are in the U.S.
and its a little harder to do something with that and meet the inversion requirements that the government has.
Let alone the risk of retroactivity from the March number that youre seeing politicians trying to bring there.
Right.
And then as follow-up actually on cash flow so you have the cash tax noise in the quarter we know its year-to-date I mean your cash taxes may have been $30 million or so about what kind of went through on a GAAP P&amp;L.
So not a huge GAAP there.
With the structural amortization benefit you have I would have thought cash would have been a little bit better year-to-date.
Is there anything else going on working capital and the comment about closing the year strong should we expect something kind of in the 130% kind of zip code for the cash conversion rate for the year? Yeah.
I think the least that could -- we were expected to probably do a little bit better than 130%.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Alex Blanton with Clear Harbor Asset Management.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Hey good morning Alex.
Puts you on a new.
Hello.
Hello hello.
Hello.
Mr.
Blanton please go ahead.
Hello I got cut out.
Hello.
Youre still -- Alex youre still on.
We can hear okay.
Okay.
I didnt know whether I was on it sorry.
I want to go into a little more along the line that someone was talking about the decline in earnings from second quarter.
As to the reasons I see the tax rate was 30.4% in the second quarter and that increased to 32% it will cost you $0.04 but youve mentioned headwinds in TransCore and I dont think I heard anything more about that.
And also are there any acquisition expenses connected with FoodLink? So any acquisition expenses that we have were recorded in the second quarter since we did close on that transaction on July 2.
So I wouldnt say that thats material but we do expect to have some acquisition expenses in the third quarter not related to FoodLink.
On the other hand you did obviously pickup on the tax rate increase in Q2 to Q3 and we just had a very strong conversion as Brian mentioned for the second quarter.
Some of the software renewal did happen during that timeframe carry along with them very high margins.
So we continue to see the second half somewhere in 35% to 40% leverage on incremental growth and then so its very similar to what we have in the first half.
And what were the headwinds in TransCore that Brian referred to when he was talking about that segment but didnt go into any detail on it? So really headwinds as much is timing associated with the milestones on a project.
So as we mentioned we had very strong performance for executing on those projects in Virginia and Texas and in Florida and other places and that comes along with some revenue recognitions profit recognitions in the second quarter.
That looks a little bit better than what we would have expected for the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Youre welcome Alex.
That will end our question-and-answer session for todays call.
Ill turn the call back over to John Humphrey for closing remarks.
Thank you Tina and thank you all for joining us this morning.
And we look forward to talking to you at the end of our third quarter.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
The Roper Industries Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
This call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Kayla and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss the results of our record third quarter.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Soni Vice President and Controller and Rob Crisci who Heads our Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
Our press release also includes replay information for today's call.
In addition we have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also on our website at www.roperind.com.
Next slide we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you'll please turn to slide three today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation and on our website.
For the third quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted results consists of two discrete items.
First a purchase accounting adjustment to acquire deferred revenue and our recent software acquisitions FoodLink and SHP and that totals about $950 000.
That's an adjustment to both revenue and operating profit.
As a reminder this represents revenue that absent our acquisition those businesses would have recognized.
In addition we also had an inventory related step-up charge for IPA for about $400 000.
And now if you'll please turn the slide I will turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and after his prepared remarks we'll take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Good morning everyone.
If we look at this first slide here on a summary to the third quarter.
At the enterprise level we had record third quarter results in all of the categories.
All time record on orders and backlog revenue net earnings EBITDA.
One of the things that was particularly encouraging about the quarter as we've really didn't have any significant headwinds in any one of our segments.
I remember last year we had difficulty with Zetec and from time to time there may be something.
This quarter around we really didn't have anything at the segment level.
We did have better geographic results on a broader base than we would have expected while the US was certainly up.
Every place was up except for Brazil and some portions of the Middle East.
Our revenue in total was up 6% with organic revenue up 4% and again kind of broad based results all of the segments were up.
Our gross margin was up 70 basis points on the adjusted non-GAAP number to 59.4% a little better on a GAAP basis and operating margin was up 60 basis points to 27.9%.
Leverage in the quarter was 39% in keeping with our guidance of 35% or more.
Net earnings were up 10% to $156 million represented $1.55.
Of course the GAAP basis compared to the prior year was higher than that of 13%.
Our operating cash flow was $226 million which was a cash conversion of cash to net earnings of 145%.
So it was a terrific quarter for us pretty much across the board and certainly provides a lot more assurance about us reporting our record 2014 full year.
Next slide.
If we look at the income statement in the quarter orders were up 6% to $893 million.
Revenue was up 6% while organic was up 4% it will be up stronger than that in the fourth quarter.
Our gross margins were up to 59.4% as we set up 70 basis points operating income up.
Our earnings before tax were up 12% to $228 million.
Our tax rate was higher in the quarter from last year instead of 30.3% it was 31.3% which cost us $0.02 a share.
And then you can see the net earnings number at the bottom the diluted earnings per share and we're comparing it against our non-GAAP number last year of about 42 on a GAAP basis we were at $1.54 against $1.36 last year.
Next slide.
EBITDA growth continues and our margin expansion continues.
I know most people find that really remarkable but we do have certainly some of the best operating people in the world and they continue to deliver spectacular results.
In the last two years our EBITDA is up $301 million to $1.173 billion from $872 million and our EBITDA margins have grown by 380 basis points they were 29.8% in 2012 and people telling me they would obviously max out and the direction of the mean would be taking us down to the mid 20s.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
We continue to grow our margins.
You can see they were up to 33.6% and our gross margins similarly have expanded back in 2012 on a trailing 12 month basis at this point in the year our gross margins were 55.2% and today our trailing 12 month gross margins are 59.3%.
Next slide.
If we look at the cash flow we had better cash flow quarter here in Q3 as you can see the important items being 145% cash conversion on operating cash flow.
That $226 million represented 25.6% of revenue in the quarter and our free cash flow at $217 million represented 24.5% of free cash flow to revenue in the quarter.
That brings us as you can see to $579 million on the year we would expect a strong fourth quarter so that our conversion factors stay well above the 130%.
If we look at the compounding nature of cash flow which is what we get out of all of these software and medical acquisitions we've taken cash flow up from $659 million in the trailing 12 months in 2012 to $815 million this year and of course we'll have a stronger fourth quarter.
It will be the 17th year in a row that our cash flow  free cash flow will exceed net earnings.
Next slide.
Here if we look at the balance sheet you'll see cash grew in the quarter by $104 million.
Our undrawn revolver was paid down.
So despite deploying $303 million in the quarter for acquisitions we ended the quarter with almost $2 billion in cash and undrawn revolver position with our trailing 12 month EBITDA at $1.173 billion you can see those ratios gross debt-to-EBITDA at 2 we'd like to be higher than that.
We would expect that we would easily deploy $1 billion or more in the acquisition arena in the next 12 months and it could be higher than that could reach a $1.5 billion.
Next slide.
Here if we look at the individual segments they all performed well in the quarter.
Next slide.
The energy systems and controls we'll start with the smallest of the segments.
You can see here that energy systems &amp; controls represents about 17% of the EBITDA we get in quarter three.
Its revenue was up sharply up 10% over the prior year.
Operating profit was up 19%.
So it had very very outstanding leverage only 50% leverage in the quarter.
OP margin reached 28.7 and the good thing about all of that is within the fourth quarter we expect a very strong improvement in operating margins out of our energy systems segment.
Orders were up terrifically they were up over 14% in the quarter for energy.
The organic revenue in the quarter you can see here was 8% with that terrific leverage.
We had double-digit growth in our oil &amp; gas products including the safety systems that are involved in fracking operations.
Our Zetec business bounced back from a bad third quarter a year ago to have a much more normal quarter so much much improved on an easy comp basis and on the aftermarket and field service for compressor controls was particularly strong although the large project spending decisions certainly have been slow with all the geopolitical confusion you have.
But despite those geopolitical issues compressor controls bookings in the quarter were up nearly 20%.
We had a modest decline in our PAC business around refinery instrumentation projects but nothing to be alarmed about.
In the fourth quarter our oil &amp; gas products continue to perform well as this oil price indicator doesn't seem to have any elasticity effect on our businesses.
Again we're much more involved in the throughput productivity side of that than in the exploration of new well side.
Very strong compressor controls aftermarket and field service would be expected in the fourth quarter and this is a segment that always has strong fourth quarter results for people that have left over MRR budgets and we would think that would be the same this year.
Often that benefits our instrument sales and despite having some foreign exchange headwinds which occurred in September and will of course continue in the fourth quarter we still see very strong sequential operating profit growth in the fourth quarter.
Next slide.
Here if we look at industrial technology you can see industrial technology is up to 21% of the companies EBITDA in the quarter.
It had modest revenue growth but last year was particularly with Neptune an all-time record third quarter number operating profit up modestly with the margin was up 200 basis points going forward from the way we look at it it will be a much stronger margin.
The Roper Pumps Directional Drilling activity continued to be just really very very good double-digit growth.
The relined activity we do in the new Houston facility that we opened last year is continuing to ramp up passing its breakeven contribution and doing extremely well now and it's going to continue to perform well in the fourth quarter.
Our Cornell Pump business which is the dewatering business continues to do very well.
The rental markets are up strongly and the shale and oil gas production area even though rig counts may be modest or declining in some areas it doesn't matter for us because the productivity increases that you're seeing many of these places are up 20% productivity.
Our products are really required for the throughput side of the equation so they are not influenced that much by the new rig count and much more by the throughput.
Our Material Analysis business has performed well and did better in Europe than we would have expected.
In fact the overall company did better in Europe than we might have feared given the headlines you see.
Neptune was down slightly in the quarter against last years all-time record performance still performed very well.
The five year Toronto project is a bit ahead of schedule and as we looked and talked with them we think that's probably on track to get completed some time next year perhaps around the end of the first half of the year and we continue to develop and expand our systems capability at Neptune.
And one of the great things that the technology team has done there is backward compatibility for all these enhanced systems and the result of that is that people don't have to worry about a technology migration because we're really offer them an evolution that allows them to be able to use old and new technology at the same time and we're not limited by any old networks that so many of our competitors are strangled with.
In the fourth quarter we have mid single digit revenue growth that we think we'll have within the segment as a whole and we think we'll have stronger operating margins in the fourth quarter along with much stronger revenue growth.
Next slide.
If we look at the Radio Frequency Technology segment it had substantial order growth in our Toll &amp; Traffic businesses.
Last quarter we talked to you about very important wins in the Henry Hudson Bridge in the San Francisco Bay Area projects and this quarter we've added to those with the Houston Grand Parkway and the Pennsylvania Turnpike Upgrades and Florida I-95 Express Lanes all three of those will be in excess of $50 million in total.
So all that bodes well for the future in 2015.
but the important thing about them is even though they may only have mid single digit growth they compound that cash flow growth on a constant basis that allows us a lot of money to reinvestment as they need very little for their own internal business development.
And our CBORD &amp; Horizon business had strong operating profit as recurring and maintenance revenue grew despite having lower revenue in the fewer security projects that you're seeing at the university and K-12 [ph] level.
If we look to the fourth quarter you can see that we think we'll have kind of low single digit growth compared to last years record fourth quarter but still better than last year.
We've got substantial opportunities in growth in the Intelligent Transportation Systems solution area.
We've got quite a lot of bids out.
We've got some significant progress we've been making on process quotes and discussions that look like it should well position us for certainly 2015.
The iTrade business has been benefited by the FoodLink acquisition that we did towards the  in the third quarter.
Normally our integration process is pretty simple and the iTrade area that was an opportunity to take some cost out and to do some other thing which is are several months ahead of schedule.
So we feel particularly good about how that's performing and as you can see the Radio Frequency segment in the quarter represents a 26% of our total EBITDA.
Next slide.
Here as we look at our largest segment the Medical segment which increasingly really is around healthcare.
If we look at organic growth we were up 6% in the quarter.
The device side of the business was sort of low single digit growth led really by our Northern Digital as mentioned image-guided products and some consumables at CIVCO.
We had great performance just great performance in both Sunquest and MHA.
Sunquest continues to drive execution around the meaningful use implementations and upgrade which is finally getting us out at some of the backlog that we had experienced last year with Sunquest.
So productivity is up sharply here.
And at MHA we've got a favorable trend in basically the spending arena around long-term care pharmacies and assisted living and skilled nursing facilities.
So MHA is having of course is  really both Sunquest and MHA have spectacular all time record years.
We acquired Strategic Healthcare SHP in the quarter.
It's really a phenomenal business with high growth profile.
It's a SaaS provider of data analytics for the post-acute healthcare organizations.
These are things like home health and hospice care.
It's very complimentary to what we do at MHA.
And we also acquired another company IPA Innovative Products which is the leading provider of automated surgical scrub dispensing systems for hospitals.
Pretty good timeline given everything people worry about today on disease protection and they provide a lot of productivity for the surgical suite because people oftentimes can't find their uniforms they don't have the right size people have to wait while people bring it and these automated dispensing criteria is just facilitate that and reduce expenses almost immediately for the hospital.
If we look at the fourth quarter we've got Sunquest and MHA will continue their double-digit growth and medical devises probably going to be in the mid single digit arena but the overall segment even with the imaging activity is expected to have double-digit segment growth in the fourth quarter.
So not only do we get that we think we'll continue to have some margin expansion and you can see that medical healthcare was up 36% or not up 36% but represented 36% of the company's EBITDA.
Next slide.
So if we update the guidance  next slide we're increasing our full year guidance from $6.27 to $6.37 to $6.32 to $6.38.
We started out the year with $6.05 so we're quite pleased with how the year has come on line.
Our full year guidance would be to have revenue growth around 8% to 9% with organic growth around 6% to 7%.
We're going to bounce back here with organic growth in the fourth quarter at 6% to 7%.
Overall revenue growth in the fourth quarter expected to be 7% to8% fortunately taxes probably going to be 32%.
And then these guidance numbers include the September 30th foreign exchange rates.
They don't forecast anything beyond that.
Exchange hurt us a bit as in September but didn't do much for the quarter as a whole but it's a bit of a drag going into Q4.
Next slide.
Here if we look at the summary of the quarter once again we achieved records in pretty much every category you can think of.
The revenue up 6% with organic 4% but we're going to have a stronger 6% to 7% Q4 organic in the fourth quarter.
Gross margins at 59.4% are pretty spectacular.
Operating margins at 27.9% but the reality is we have a lot of non-cash and tangible amortization and if you look at the EBITDA performance you'll see it's even stronger.
We got 39% operating leverage out of the third quarter which is quite remarkable and EBITDA almost at a $300 million clip at a third of the revenue.
We deployed $300 million in attractive acquisitions.
We expect to continue the capital deployment.
We've got a favorable pipeline and there are quite a few things that we're working diligently on as we speak.
I don't know if any of those would close within the quarter but they are likely to close some time sooner rather than later.
We've got very good year-to-date performance through the first nine months' certainly record levels of growth and record margins and cash flow.
We've raised our full year guidance again and we're confirming the strong cash conversion that we talked about well above 130%.
We expect a record year.
And with that we should open it up to questions John.
Okay.
Kayla so if you can start the Q&amp;A portion of our call this morning we'd appreciate that.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first to Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Yes good morning Brian John and Rob.
Good morning.
Just for starters could we just maybe talk a little bit to Brian about the geographic growth.
You kind of touched on it in the materials analysis business.
But just kind of suggested that maybe overall Europe was stronger than expected.
Just maybe kind of comment on maybe what businesses in Europe surprised you positively? Well we had pretty deep growth everywhere in the quarter.
I mean nothing spectacular but the only places we were down was Brazil where we expected to be and some of the things in the Middle East which are really slow just because of the political environment and decision making but our positions are good and solid.
Everywhere else grew.
So Asia was up double-digits Europe was up 3% Canada despite some last minute currency pressure was still up in the low single digits and the US was up a little over 5%.
So you know about 65% of revenue is still domestic if you will and about 35% outside North America used to be closer to 40 but as Sunquest and MHA are essentially US businesses.
So that affects the thing.
But the core underlying businesses are doing well globally really other than Japan don't have any softness anywhere in Asia.
Europe's industrial activity was where we were kind of pleasantly surprised.
We did particularly well in Germany and given the things that you're seeing about Germany that was  and we felt good about that and orders were strong there and then medical did particularly well in Europe against its normal outcome.
And just from the M&amp;A pipeline in the M&amp;A pipeline what  are you seeing a lot of opportunities that are non-medical the scientific? Well we see a lot and pursue a lot of things that are SaaS based or licensed software that we look at and those fall into very different categories.
I mean one of the things we're doing now would look more like an extension of Inovonics which is our security business that has some very unique technology of the pendants if you look at the product fall and can't get our pendant lines of activities that we have that we don't talk a lot about.
So there are sometimes things in that arena that we look at.
In the industrial arena we still really haven't seen anything that would fit our cash return on investment methodology.
We're getting very strong GAAP based EPS performance out of fluid handling and when we look at other people stuff we just don't see people that have our margins.
Our EBITDA margins in that segment are above 30% and most of the stuff we see comes in with gross margins at 30 and EBITDA margins at 16 and it depends on other people increasing demand to create any real leverage in the business.
I see.
Okay very good.
Well thank you and congrats.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
As we look into next year it seems like you have some nice momentum carrying through with tolling projects and the medical SaaS businesses then there's some concern of the oil &amp; gas markets idea that spending might be hitting a plateau.
You gave some color Brian but maybe you could just give a deeper diagnosis of that market? Yeah I think the thing that was encouraging about the third quarter was CCC was basically up 20% in orders and that's an area that you would be concerned about two factors.
One geopolitical risk with Russian sanctions and anybody serving anything going into those markets and then price elasticity around Brent and WTI crude or are you worried then about rig counts being less growth even than they were.
Well it turns out you know all of our stuff is productivity related and so it's aftermarket activity or it's improving throughput.
We had a very strong Cornell pump business growth with dewatering pumps.
Well if your productivity and if you read almost anything you'll see that things like Eagle Ford their productivity is up 20%.
Well that measures throughput and they need our dewatering activity for that throughput increase.
So it's less dependent on new rig counts and more dependent on throughput.
Price elasticity again its really about usually other peoples consumption of energy and their production process.
So they are still interested and that going down.
So we really haven't seen any early indicators either in an industrial or an energy platform that would cause us to be concerned at this point about 2015.
I think that particularly with Europe up somewhat in the quarter that we just don't see an area of softness.
That sounds good.
And then just another area of the portfolio since you had the new investment there for iTrade.
Can you kind of update us on what you're seeing for adoption and penetration trends market share for that platform? You know iTrade continues to perform really well particularly in the US and their order management system.
That's been the  and that was really the main reason that we acquired iTrade was because of the  what we thought were favorable trends in order management being able to more seamlessly connect the supply chain for fresh and perishable goods and the grocery chain and that is continuing to prove out to be the case.
We've really refocused that business more on the US market and they kind of started to go outside the US and I think they got a little over their skis in terms of capability to deliver while they still had a  quite a bit of addressable market here in the US.
So they are growing very nicely in the US outside the US not quite as much and we really think that the Foodlink acquisition and the capabilities beyond the supplier side all the way back to the farm and the organic farmer side will really help extend the offerings that iTrade is going to be able to have.
So we're encouraged by the progress there.
Thanks John.
Yeah.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Just on the deals that you closed in the third quarter could you just give us a little bit more color on the acquired revenues or the acquired EBITDA how to think about the multiples how to think about kind of an accretion profile into 2015? Sure.
So we invested about $300 million in these three acquisitions between FoodLink IPA and SHP and in total we expect them to deliver in the high $20 million range in our first year of ownership.
So we paid about 11 time a little bit less 11  little bit less than 11 times first year EBITDA and given the profile for these types of businesses extremely asset light high amount of recurring revenue software type of margin profile we think that we paid a fair price but a very good price.
So we're encouraged about that.
In terms of revenue and these are going to have I think after the amortization charges it will probably be similar to the Roper margin profile.
So I think you're looking at somewhere in the $75 million range for first year revenue.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we also have a cash and tax benefit that accretes Yeah there's a modest cash tax benefit included in that $300 million maybe $10 million or so.
Okay.
Great.
And on the other side Brian this has been raised on prior calls right and you've got some really good assets and selling incomes with dilution and things like that.
But you know I've heard a little bit of chatter.
I don't know how real it is but maybe on the pump side you guys might be looking to shed something there.
How should we think about the other side of kind of managing the portfolio and to your point some of the stuff is going for high multiples and it's not maybe great assets you've got some very good assets that perhaps will touch a very solid multiple in this consolidating environment that we're seeing? Pretty much all the businesses are pretty good as you say.
I mean we have only just a few product lines that are things that we wish were not part of the portfolio but there are only a few of those.
I think we do get bids from time-to-time from people about certain assets every once in awhile we pursue then as a rule.
It's hard to ever see those divestitures come to fruition because the after tax contribution is not a shareholder friendly result right.
So if we were going to divest anything we'd want to assure ourselves that the cash from the disposition had an immediate and great home I'm sure that there are some assets we own that you know would perform as well as they do with us in another place or if you have an asset that has maybe growth characteristics but it's a very dilutive cash return profile and somebody else wants to invest in it and has a lot of synergies with it and we can get a fair price for it then we're certainly not above disposing of some of those kind of things.
And I think a lot of people  our acquisition activity is just very intense and pricing is pretty high.
So there are people who call us about possible divestures who wouldn't have called in the past as they are finding how much these things are really worth and they can't find anything else and ours are so much better.
So it's certainly possible that you could see some portfolio adjustment in the next year.
Thank you.
I was wondering if I could just slip one more in.
Could you elaborate on what you said about security projects and I think you said K-12 in colleges [ph] are you seeing some cyclical let up there or is it is just kind of the programmatic nature of some of those projects just kind of the state of those markets? Yeah.
It's really at CBORD &amp; Horizon where CBORD in particular we had the one car technology that does everything on the campus or healthcare environment and they had some particularly big transactions the last large one I think was Northeastern University up there.
That sort of cycling out and the university and healthcare campus activity decisions are really slow.
So quotations are there.
And what happens on the projects is there is some throughput of other peoples security hardware in addition to our systems.
And so if you don't get that which we didn't have in the third quarter much of it brings down the revenue but actually we had better operating results because the software portion and the license maintenance activity is at much higher margins.
So what we were just trying to reflect is it didn't look like revenue was really strong but actually the OP was quite strong.
Okay.
Thank you.
And at the end of the day I mean just to elaborate on that a little bit at the end of the day CBORD is a software business.
I mean we do sell-through hardware in order to facilitate some of the security applications but fundamentally we look at the software and the maintenance revenue and the new license revenue out of that business as the ongoing health and growth of that business and with the lumpy projects around security that we'll add on top of that.
And as Brian said we're very encouraged by the nice growth in the maintenance revenue which is really their installed base and the annuity that comes along with everything they are providing for those customers.
Okay.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everyone and nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning Joe.
My first question is this one I'm trying to square your comments on energy our energy team today came out with a price deck a WTI price deck of sub 80 for next year and Brian you mentioned in your prepared comments that large projects continue to get deferred.
But the bookings were really strong in compressor controls and frankly across the rest of your business.
So I'm just trying to just better understand the resiliency of compressor controls Roper Pump Cornell and perhaps maybe if you could set the context how much of your business is aftermarket versus OE related that would be helpful? Well let me address the second one first and I'm basically going to address it by saying we're going have to get back to you and we don't really think of it as OE and aftermarket as much as looking at our total exposure to oil &amp; gas knowing that most of our applications are around throughput and efficiency and quality whether it be in the refinery side for instrumentation that are measuring quality or throughput inefficiency like our compressor controls business.
We'd have a few modest applications that are more on the upstream side but they are on the upstream production side things like diesel engine shut off valves and dewatering pumps because there's quite a bit of water that's used even on the production side in addition to the exploration side.
Very little of what we have I mean is just kind of thinking through it.
Very little goes to OEMs per se other then of course knowing you have drilling people who are doing drilling applications or production applications that I guess could be qualified as an OEM but it's not really an OEM the way I think of it in terms of larger automotive type markets.
It doesn't feel like that to me as we go through all of our businesses.
And then as far as the outlook on crude oil prices I mean we really don't see an awful lot of that.
Most of the areas where we've seen delays or at least slower decision making for some of those large projects I think they are more geopolitical in nature rather than price of oil in nature.
Brazil has been slower to make decisions around some of those things.
Some areas of the Middle East not quite as fast on making some investments as what we might have expected.
But it doesn't change the fact that energy is still doing extremely well.
Our total oil and gas related businesses I don't have it at my finger tips but they were clearly up in the quarter and up on a year-to-date basis despite seeing the oil price start to come down.
So it's something that we're keeping an eye on.
We definitely benefit by having very lien very nimble organizations that could act quickly but at this point we still see more opportunities than we see on the risk side.
Okay.
That's helpful color John.
And maybe one follow-up.
Brian you mentioned earlier you talked about a $1 billion to a $1.5 billion in deals over the next 12 months.
Clearly interest rates have moved lower again valuations look more reasonable.
Are you seeing any greater competition at this point and maybe you could just try to compare it versus what you've seen over the next  over last 6 to 12 months?  I don't see that.
Interest rates for the M&amp;A market haven't had any material change.
I mean if there's anything it would be a little bit of people yelling at the banks that they are seven and eight types debt stables are a little out of control and maybe some of the European banks that have been doing that routinely should think about it.
But the reality is we still see ridiculous amounts of debt financing on every transaction.
We never see anything thats less than seven times stable debt despite what other people are saying it shouldn't be above five or six what is its a lot above it.
And there's a lot of private money available that's still happy to go in at sort of 5% kind of interest rates and still a lot of pick.
So prices are as high as they've ever been.
There's a huge amount of stuff for sale.
I mean we have gone through more conversations this year with people than we've ever done in our history and still it's just their  just a huge amount of them.
I mean we'll be out tomorrow and we'll be out Wednesday on two more where management presentations are very robust.
I don't think private equity has pulled back by one penny.
I think some of the strategics have sort of given up.
But the kind of things we are looking at investing in are things that really want to be part of our company because of the nature in which we manage it and the governance process and the freedom and entrepreneurial people have to survive here.
So we're not seeing any problem with the pipeline.
We would like to make a larger acquisition than we have but there are certainly no shortage of $2 million $3 million $4 million $500 million transactions in front of us and the larger ones still such a frothy ability to issue equity that every  all the sellers who continue to talk to us haven't decided what they're going to do.
But I think it's going to be easy for us to deploy quite a bit of capital here in the next 12 months in very attractive businesses.
Helpful Brian.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I'll get back in queue.
Yeah.
We'll go next to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Hey good morning Steve.
Just fourth quarter free cash flow and kind of the year number what do you expect there for free cash flow percent net income? Well I think I don't know for the full year it should be 130%.
I guess I'd have to see that for the fourth quarter.
Yeah fourth quarter should be in the range of $250 million of operating cash flow and let me take 10 off for CapEx so that's how we spend on a per quarter basis.
So we'll spend $40 million of CapEx roughly this year.
So that I think keeps our full year operating cash flow conversion well above 130%.
Okay.
And then just for next year these deals you did I think you answered this in Jeff's question maybe but it would be the accretion for next year is like $0.10 to $0.15 the right kind of number for those deals you've closed recently do you have kind of you know booked and locked in for next year? No its Just think about the way we think about it right.
So we think about cash accretion so on cash these are sort of very high margin businesses and they are growing rapidly and they are going contribute a good deal in cash in 2015.
Okay.
On what some up based EPS number it is is far less critical than whether the quality of the earnings and cash that they generate is pretty good.
Johns talking about them being in the high $20 plus million of EBITDA.
And so you can figure that out.
If you care about a GAAP base EPS number you can do the math.
But we care about their compounding cash growth and they are going contribute well in excess of $25 million of EBITDA in 2015.
So the $0.10 to $0.15 converts at a higher rate or kind of the normal 130% rate? On a GAAP EPS base it's going to have a lot of Yeah free cash flow right.
Yeah it will be in that same range.
When the nature of this right of course we have non-cash amortization charges Sure.
And you always need to add those thing and tax effect those but then add those back and so that gives us the natural increase in our operating cash flow well above the net earnings contribution.
Right.
Okay perfect.
Thanks.
We'll go next to John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Hi good morning.
First question in the Industrial business you talked about Neptune down from tough comps.
Can you talk about mix of business generally? I know there's more of a technology high margin spend in this space now with flow meters and a lot of the RFs going to slightly different permutations.
So if you could just comment a little bit on Neptune mix that would be great?   Sure.
I mean the general trend in the industry is clearly is to purchase meters along with the technology embedded in that.
So it's not too completely different streams and oftentimes you have water utilities that will decide to upgrade a project.
And so you'll have collectors as well as devises to be able to collect that information.
So you have the collectors that will gather the readings and send them back to the central office and also mobile communication devises.
But as a rule most of the revenue for Neptune is going to be the meter technology plus the radio and embedded encoder technology.
So you can gather all that information and be able to send it back to someone.
And usually those are not purchased separately.
And so we're having a split I mean still over two thirds probably closer to 75% of the new shipments for Neptune the new revenue is the integrated meter or some integrated technology rather than just a meter that goes out that's still being direct read.
And so that's where we see the market continuing to trend with the total systems purchase rather than the individual pieces.
Yeah let me just make it clear that.
That I wouldn't accept the premise that Neptune's down.
We just said that they had an all-time record quarter in the third quarter of last year so might be down a $1 million or $1.5 million compared to the prior period.
But they are going to have likely a record year this year and they are having a very strong first nine months of the year and then they are going to do okay in the fourth quarter.
So let's be careful about how we phrase that compared to the competitive marketplace out there with other people who have old technology and have pretty mediocre revenue.
Yeah I know that's fair.
I'm just going off slide 12.
And so lastly on my  the Medical and Scientific Imaging I'm sorry if you mentioned this geographic splits there is that primarily North America or anything else internationally? Thank you.
Sure.
I mean for this segment in total it's not at all much very dissimilar.
What you have is our medical products and medical software businesses Sunquest and MHA as well as our Verathon and other businesses.
Those are probably a little more skewed to the United States.
But our Imaging businesses are more global in nature.
So when you look at the segment in total it's about 70% US 30% outside the US but the differentiation there is that our outside the US portion is more imaging in our camera businesses rather than our medical businesses.
That's still  and we're growing very nicely in medical even with US focus and still see the international opportunities still ahead of us.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Alex Blanton with Clear Harbor Asset Management.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning Alex.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
I wanted to go back to this question of the $1 billion to $1.5 billion that you hope to spend in the next 12 months.
How much have you spent this year? Do we have that total? $303 million I think.
That's it for this year? So far Yeah we didn't spend anything the first half of the year and we did the $303 million in the third quarter.
So that really explains why when you're looking at the growth for the year you've got 6% to 7% forecast organic and 8% to 9% total.
So you really haven't added all that much revenue this year to the total.
When we talk about next year what would be do you have any idea of the timing of that spend whether it's in the beginning of the year or the end of the year and in other words what's it going to add to revenue? We will really never know the timing Alex.
I mean we had the diligence that we do is very time consuming and everybody that's been through our process understands.
So while we can process a lot of stuff simultaneously.
We're almost always looking at least four things at any point in time and you just never know whether they get into the finish line.
We don't have a budget for acquisitions and we always want to do the best thing as opposed to just doing something.
So when you get to acquire something like IPA and SHP I mean we have one of the thought leaders in the world with probably running SHP and some phenomenal business very very very exciting for us to do that and we could have done a couple of other things that would have had larger revenue but don't have the compound cash growth that we like.
So it's very important for the acquired management team to be able to fit into our culture.
People have a good deal of freedom but for the same token they've got to have a thorough understanding of cash return and where we want to exploit multiple channels of distribution and how we think pricing should go and how you should invest in R&amp;D.
And candidly most people don't have those values.
They just wait for cyclical markets to change.
But our people have to really evolve markets and they've got to have a long-term view of what it is they're doing because they are the ones that are driving the applications in the marketplace.
You alluded to the fact that you are looking at companies who really want to join Roper as opposed to some big industrial conglomerate or whatever.
But if they are owned by private equity investors do they really have the say in who they want to be bought by? Well some do some don't.
It really depends on  when the private equity guys own the business if the management team will not convey to a new private equity owner then the private equity guys have to behave very differently.
Sometimes the management people have a desire to go through and 5 year situation where they can't invest in the future and hope for an exit that will be okay but the kind of people that want to work here don't think that way.
They've been inside private equity for awhile.
They want to invest to grow their business over the long-term and we're a great home for people who want to invest and grow over the long-term.
One more follow-up.
Roper Pump is ramping up in Houston.
What's the capacity utilization now? In other words how much further can you ramp it? Oh! We could double certainly from where it is today.
Its got  it has some sophisticated process equipment that's running three shifts but most of the activity is only on a one or a shift and a half basis and the people that we're providing product to are releasing more and more of their content and a lot of what they are doing in Houston is called relining of these drill bits.
And so it's not  you know and the answer its really on the exploration side that has to drive their growth as long as they're continuing to operate.
These things have got to come back to be willing because they wear and thats the Houston thing is a big relining operation.
Okay.
Thank you.
Welcome.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you Kayla and thank you all for joining us.
We look forward to talking to you in late January when we release our fourth quarter numbers.
This concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
The Roper Industries Fourth Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
Todays conference is being recorded.
Ill now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Audra and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss our fourth quarter and full-year results.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Soni Vice President and Controller and Rob Crisci who Heads our Planning and Investor Relations for us.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
Our press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast and also on our Web site at www.roperind.com.
Please turn to Slide 2; we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call well be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our filings with the SEC.
You should listen to today's call in the context of all that information.
Now if you please turn to Slide 3 today well be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation which is available on our Web site.
For the fourth quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted consists of two discrete items.
First a purchase accounting adjustment to acquire deferred revenue and our recent software acquisitions FoodLink and SHP which we completed in the third quarter that totals about $1.4 million.
As a reminder this represents revenue that absent our acquisition those businesses would have recognized.
In addition we had an inventory step-up charge for IPA for about $400 000.
And now if you please turn to Slide 3 -- sorry Slide 4 Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his remarks we'll take questions from our participants.
Brian? Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
We will try to get this call finished before snowstorm.
So if we start with the Q4 enterprise financial results we had a really terrific year with a great strong finish here in the fourth quarter.
We had all-time records for incoming orders revenue that we build net earnings EBITDA cash flow.
Organic revenue in the fourth quarter was up 7%.
We had pretty much broad based growth every place or operating margins in the quarter reached 30.1% which was up 110 basis points and the operating leverage was pretty spectacular in the quarter at 47%.
We will comment about leverage going forward with our guidance.
Net earnings were up 13% to $187 million or a $1.85 and operating cash flow was up sharply a billion dollar run rate there to $261 million in the quarter up 11% with free cash flow in that same kind of category.
Its very little CapEx this year about 1% of revenue so very strong fourth quarter.
Next slide.
We look at the income statement here you can see the orders were up to $924 million versus $900 million a year-ago up 3%; book-to-bill was 0.98x but so we said before sort of 0.97x to 1.03x is the normal spread.
But in the fourth quarter our book-to-bill was always very low -- relatively low because weve so much more year-end invoicing.
So really that book-to-bill of 0.98x is not a problem and we finished the year at 1.0x.
Revenue was up 7%.
We had about 2 points of negative foreign exchange headwinds here in the fourth quarter.
Gross profits stayed at remarkably high-level here about 60%.
The operating margin as we said before had 47% leverage and that was just strong across the board as you will see.
The tax rate was 60 basis points lower than the fourth quarter of last year which gave us about a penny and a half so you can see the DEPS number at $1.85 versus last years $1.65.
Next slide.
Cash flow performance in the quarter was spectacular.
We had 140% operating cash flow conversion and a 136% free cash flow conversion.
Our cash flow has been growing as you can see if you look at 2012 and then 13 and 14.
Thats an 11% CAGR on operating cash flow in the last two years and our free cash flow was 23% of revenue which was about same as last years 23% of revenue pretty spectacular number.
We still think cash is the best major performance and if you follow our free cash flow and you follow the continued growth then I think youd get a much better understanding about the quality of the Companys businesses.
Here we start the full-year enterprise results next slide.
If you look at the full-year income statement orders were above $3.5 billion.
They were up 5% and the book-to-bill was exactly 1.0x.
Revenue was up 9% with organic up 6% for the year which was certainly in the wheelhouse of what we established this guidance at the beginning of the year.
Gross margin for the full-year was up 70 basis points to 59.3% and our operating margin was up 120 basis points and for the full-year we had operating leverage of 42%.
We used to talk about -- well I can go back to 25% to 30% and then it was 30% to 35%.
Recently its been 35% to 40% and were going to suggest that forward guidance for us is going to have operating leverage at 40% or above on the next dollar revenue.
Operating income was up 13%.
Earnings before tax were up 16%.
Tax was a headwind for us this year as we suggested it would be at the beginning of the year.
It was 29.9% versus 29% last year.
That caused an $0.08 headwind in our earnings but even with that $0.08 we still produced $6.42 up 14% and the GAAP number of course was up 19% on earnings per share.
Next slide in terms of EBITDA and margin on the left hand side you will see EBITDA has increased over the last two years by 30% from $925 million in 2012 to $1.2 billion this year.
Thats a $276 million increase.
On EBITDA margins we continue to improve margins I think rather spectacularly.
In 2012 our EBITDA was 30.8% and people were saying oh boy youre going to have to revert to the mean now.
You will be back down with everybody else in the 20s.
Well of course quite to the contrary thats just wrong.
We were 32.8% last year and 33.8% this year and thats all about our governance system and the quality of our businesses record EBITDA performance.
Next slide.
Here again you see a tribute to the governance model what we have and the field execution.
Our asset-like business model inventory now running 5.1% receivables at 16.1% and the way we look at the working capital number you can see its dropped from 7% two years ago when people thought that was an unbelievably good number to now 5% at the end of this year so our guys continue to understand how to execute our asset-like business model.
Next slide.
If we look at the strong financial position and the balance sheet of the Company its certainly a powerful balance sheet with a lot of powder that weve intended to use.
You can see that cash has gone up to $610 million a lot of thats not in the U.S.
but our cash and undrawn revolver gives us a $2.1 billion capacity.
The trailing 12-months EBITDA now has gone up to $1.2 billion so our gross debt number at $2.2 billion is 1.8x our EBITDA and were going to be quite comfortable if its at least a turn higher.
We will discuss our activity thats going to be occurring in the first quarter and throughout the year later but we still believe were going to deploy about $8 billion over the next five years in transactions.
Next slide.
We will get into the specific detail now on the segment.
If we look first at the revenue growth by segment last year youll see in the left hand side on our organic basis energy was up 5% industrial technology with half of which is Neptune was up 7% our Radio Frequency was up 5% and Medical was up 8%.
If we look at the total revenue growth by segments youll see Medical was up 16% as the acquisitions added to the organic number.
Next slide.
Here we look at the overall segment performance on a dollar value and EBITDA basis so that you can get some better clarity on the fact that RF and medical represents about two thirds of our total EBITDA progression and its well over half of our revenue now.
So the original sort of Energy business is the smallest segment we have at $692 million still outstanding performance with $226 million of EBITDA in the large section.
First time that weve ever had $1 billion segment in Roper so you now have Medical with 1 082 million in revenue pretty good solid standalone entity with $472 million in EBITDA.
Next slide.
If you look at the oil and gas component of the Company that the legacy of the Company was oil and gas and up until through 2007 it was a pretty big portion of the overall Company.
Today its a very very small portion.
Our upstream represents 5%; our Medical RF and Software Water markets were 86% of the Company.
And the downstream midstream which is actually going to have modest growth this year is about 9%.
Now with the slides showing you in addition to the breakout here our upstream business is about 5% of revenue.
Some of thats in the Energy sector and some is in the Industrial Technology sector where Roper Pump resides.
We have even though the market we think will be down 20% perhaps even a little bit more where weve a benefit in that Roper Pump has these technologies that we launched and the new facility to get a broader categories of those into the marketplace quickly in Houston a year-ago.
Well those shipments didnt really start to occur until the second half of the year in any level.
So weve an easy comp with the first half of 2015 and those products in which were gaining share so that will mitigate what normally would have been a deeper decline in upstream.
In our Field Service and Retrofit activity in midstream is actually continuing to move up a little bit and then we have the refinery instrumentation businesses in the field service associated with that also which will have modest growth.
One of the things we did in December is we had all of our oil and gas people in for a couple of day meeting where we did a focused review to recast what they had originally submitted for 2015 projections we had them bridge the risk by customer and by category by product line.
We reviewed the contingency plans and the triggers that they had in place.
These guys are world class and nimble execution as they need to do stuff.
Theyve made a few changes already and are monitoring activity routinely.
In fact Friday we had a dust up on exactly where we were January to date.
I have to say that the momentum is actually as good as it was in the fourth quarter.
We really arent seeing anything related to product follow up at all.
Its above our expectation through the first three weeks of January which doesnt necessarily mean anything but there has not been any early indicator yet other than project delays and what you hear from other people who arent really determining their CapEx plans for later but most of our products are not going into CapEx driven activity.
The guidance that weve established and well talk about reflects the up-to-date business expectations of all of our oil and gas people of January 23 and as I say the product activity hasnt slowed.
The other thing I think is Ive read some of the commentary about the Company is people thinking that there are some way to ascertain something that happened in 2008 or 2009 for our Company and I guess we just fail to do a good enough job to remind people who were.
If you look at 2008 we added CBORD in February and then later in the year we added Horizon and Getloaded and Techlog [ph] three software companies and those werent in full-year for 08.
And then if you look at our acquisition since 08 where people are doing comparisons weve added United Toll which is a software system thats driving so much of our growth in TransCore the iTradeNetwork Verathon Northern Digital Medical Ascention Medical Managed Healthcare Associates Sunquest Strategic Healthcare Programs last year Innovative Product Achievements last year FoodLink and now Strata Decision Technology all these are either medical or software companies that created over a $1 billion in revenue thats in our numbers today that wasnt there in 2007.
So to say there are some Quid Pro Quo [ph] on this just the life and the reality of who were and what weve become.
Next slide.
Here we look at the Energy Systems and Controls sector.
We can tell you that there is about $125 million of revenue upstream out of our total Energy Systems and Controls business.
You can see in the fourth quarter their operating profit was up 11%.
Their OP margin reached 36.1% of 280 basis points and EBITDA for Energy in the fourth quarter was 39%.
Organic revenue was up 4%.
We had very significant strength really in these -- some of the businesses that people think are going backward so which -- as far its now or not.
So our diesel engine shut off safety systems was up in the high teens and so was vibration monitoring.
Field service growth continued but we did see project activity declining at CCC or postponement.
So thats something that we will be watching carefully throughout 2015.
As we look at guidance establishing for next year we look at upstream declining which is about 20% of the revenue in the segment.
And then we think the midstream and downstream we will have very modest growth and that represents about 40% of the total segment.
And then the non oil and gas businesses are another 40% of the Energy Systems Control -- and Controls segment.
So when we net it all together with declines in the upstream modest growth in the non oil and gas arena of the segment we think we will come in flat to modest organic growth for the year.
Next slide.
Here we look at Industrial Technology.
In Industrial Technology we have about $75 million of upstream revenue in the entire segment and oil and gas sort of split a little bit between the upstream not much downstream in the segment maybe another $25 million at the most.
Here you can see that organic growth was 13% in the fourth quarter broad-based throughout the different businesses in the segment.
Our Ropers -- Roper Pump had all-time performance records.
We continue to win new customers with the newer technology and the product investments that we made over the last two years have really driven substantial revenue growth and certainly help us as we get the end market follow-up and net activity.
We had growth at Neptune driven by strength in the U.S market.
We are starting to see that Toronto project wind down and we will talk about that here in the guidance.
We have double-digit growth in Material Analysis and the OP margins in our industrial segment in the fourth quarter you can see were 31.4% up 190 basis points and EBITDA hit $74.3 million at 33.8% of the revenue.
So in guiding in 2015 we think Roper Pump share gains will support flat revenue for them in total despite equity steep decline in the market.
Neptune we think will continue to grow in the U.S.
The Toronto project completion is expected in the first half of next year.
You can never put your finger exactly on that but theyve been moving at a faster pace than they originally suggested.
Weve had continued -- we expect continued growth in Material Analysis although you got some currency issues with Danish krone and then weve got the modes organic growth were saying in the segment in whole only because the Toronto RF project completion should occur sometime in the year and that could really create about a $25 million to $30 million divot [ph] in the segment on revenue which is the bad news.
But the good news is weve got another RF product thats going to offset all of that and then some that we will talk about as we look at the Radio Frequency Technology segment next.
So next slide.
So here we go into RF Technology.
We will just talk about the good news here.
We were awarded a substantial contract for Riyadh Saudi Arabia Traffic Management System.
This will be using our TransSuite Software Transportation Management System.
This is totally different than trolling now.
This is the stoplight transactions in Midtown Manhattan.
There's a lot of installation management in this project which of course is lower margin work.
Its a five-year contract to support it post close.
We do expect it will completely offset the Toronto wind down Neptune even though both our RF business is one happens to report in industrial now and one in RF.
So now we look at segment as a whole you can see that revenue was up just slightly.
Toll and Traffic Infiniti Lane Project Execution remain very strong with favorable variances both in Texas and Florida.
We had terrific subscriber growth in our Freight Matching businesses DAT and get loaded.
And iTrade strength in the U.S was pretty good but unfortunately offset by the U.K.
weakness and problems in the U.K.
with that business.
Technolog declined another U.K.
based software business in the utility industry but bid activity was pretty strong and Technolog tends to be a little bit up and down kind of business and should be up again in 2015.
So then if we look at the -- in addition to that OP margin at 28.4% EBITDA for the segment was $82.4 million at 34.3% and RF now represents 26% of the enterprises EBITDA.
In addition to the Saudi contract that was awarded we do expect additional scope in the foreseeable future around this because the Riyadh of course a very important city that only one in many.
TransCores backlog and quote activity is going to support segment growth for 2015.
And the Toll Tag growth that weve enjoyed recently is going to continue particularly in Florida and Texas where people continue to migrate to our very small stiffer tag as opposed to the plastic boxes that so many people in New England still use.
Software and SaaS businesses are going to continue to grow mid single-digits very high margins.
They draw up a lot of cash that allow us to make reinvestments in their own businesses or by bolt-on things for them.
And the segment we think at the end of the year will have the single-digit organically.
So next lets look at Medical.
I think this will be the last time in a call that we will be able to contain Medical on one slide.
As you can see we worked very hard to try to achieve that and pretty much made it but I don't think all that's going on there everything we know about will allow us to do that ever again.
So prepare yourself for two slides in 2015.
So here we are with a very strong fourth quarter up 12% revenue.
OP was up 15% operating margins 35.5% arent the real story here.
The real story here is EBITDA.
We delivered $126.3 million in the fourth quarter in EBITDA which was 43.9% EBITDA margin.
Really the way you have to think about the segment now is that its medical products in one leg get software and service in another leg and then the residual life science imaging component that we have in there.
Organic revenue in the fourth quarter was up 9%.
We had double-digit growth at MHA with share gains and favorable end markets which continue.
Sunquest growth continued; we had some customer implementation that customers delayed into 2015 that we thought was interesting which is fine with us.
New products at Verathon really drove spectacular growth in the fourth quarter at Verathon and we like to think thats going to continue throughout 2015.
Our imaging family improved somewhat with Gatan had a strong quarter which really led that growth.
And Gatan has shifted much more emphasis around life science.
It used to be kind of split between physical science and life science but with the new technologies weve introduced in the exceptions of the K2 camera technology and filters more and more life science is coming our way.
And the last bullet point here SHP which is strategic healthcare programs and IPA Innovative Products performed really well.
Theyre certainly on track with what we thought at the time we acquire them and probably have better forward growth than we might have guessed.
As we think about 2015 I think we have to start with the context of understanding that MHA and Sunquest are really truly transformational for Roper.
Theyre more transformational today than Neptune and TransCore were in the early point of the audit.
Theyve really great focused opportunities to build on each one of those businesses Sunquest and MHA including acquisitions that the number of acquisitions we can make as much broader than anything weve ever had.
One disappointment around Neptune is it's done exceedingly well but we haven't been able to acquire things because its competitors are less than exciting and most of the people we see in this space were not the kind of companies wed want to own.
Thank goodness Neptune has outperformed all those over these years.
TransCore weve been able to build out somewhat through acquisition but mostly it's been organic growth.
But Sunquest and MHA are different story.
MHA is capturing new opportunities its benefiting from favorable demographics.
Its acquisition and strategic healthcare programs was really the first addition that weve the MHA in the third quarter of 2014.
We expect another one is going to happen yet within this quarter.
Sunquest had this moderating growth for 2015 because of the meaningful use upgrades that have been driving such high-level growth in the recent past but our investments in eternal development of things were doing with partners that we arent really able to talk about yet and the opportunities that theyve in front of them are really exciting.
We are likely to announce another important acquisition here soon that relates to Sunquest.
So both MHA and Sunquest I think you will see continued acquisitions building those very large platforms down the road.
The Medical device businesses are on a pretty solid growth path for 2015.
We think that Verathons going to continue to have its market share gains and product replacements going on.
And then we just last week announced our first deal of the year wont be the last.
And that's Strategic Decision Technology which is a company run by Dan Michelson in Chicago.
Its a very exciting company with a new product.
Its a small company of kind of low -- just turn past $30 million of revenue but theyve been growing at 20% in the last three years and now with an infusion of capital from us theyre going to able to continue to raise that growth spectrum.
They have a new phenomenal product which is so important for the country around by cost containment cost improvement for hospitals.
Their StrataJazz platform has been running at number of hospitals in a variety of ways but the new programs that Dan and his team are going to be offering that came out of a project that they did for Northwestern Hospital -- University is really spectacular.
In total then for the segment we think we will have mid to high single-digit organic growth for the segment by the end of the year and I commit to you that we wont crowd the slide.
We will just do two in the future.
Okay now 2015 guidance.
Here if we turn to page so a full-year guidance we established at $6.70 to $6.94 and -- but we put a good deal of energy into looking at this.
The organic revenue growth for next year we think will be around 3% to 5% and thats after completing adjusting for the newer macroeconomic trends that people have seen since December 30th to now.
Operating profit leverage we can probably say will be above 40% and that's pretty good by anybody standards.
Our foreign exchange rates going to hurt us.
All of our guidance is still predicated on the year-end numbers.
We think that's going to cost us about $0.10 which is inside these numbers.
If the dollar continues to strengthen even more youd have a little bit more risk.
It could be as high as twice that number if todays rates lasted for the entire year it got worse.
The tax rate we think will come in around 30% to 31%.
Thats about a nickel headwind into the comparative earnings at the midpoint.
So it could be a little higher if the tax rate got higher last year.
If you remember it was 29.9% so were hoping it will be around 30% but it could certainly go up to 31%.
The guidance of $6.70 to $6.94 gives you a mid point of $6.82 is excluded in the future acquisitions that will occur or any divestitures.
And the full operating cash flow were establishing at the beginning of the year would exceed $900 million of operating cash flow for 2015 with our normally strong cash conversion.
First quarter we established DEPS at a $1.47 to $1.53.
It includes Strata but it excludes any other acquisitions that will happen in the first quarter or any divestitures that could occur.
Next slide.
So here we look at the 2014 summary and 2015 prospects.
So Q4 we had record performance very strong finish to a terrific year.
For the full-year we achieved record results in all these categories orders revenue net earnings EBITDA and cash flow.
Revenue was up 9% with organic up 6%.
Very significant financial achievements sort of threshold level activity where you see operating profit exceeded $1 billion in the Company for the first time margin at 28.2% 42% operating profit leverage.
The EBITDA exceeded $1.2 billion for the first time and EBITDA margin got all the way up to 33.8%.
Free cash flow was 23% of revenue and we expanded our Medical and Software platforms with three acquisitions of Strategic Healthcare Innovative Products and FoodLink.
And these three deals which were smaller than the things weve done recently are really a precursor or some of the types of outstanding businesses youre going to see us continuing to add in Medical and Software where theyve higher growth characteristics that tend to be somewhat smaller revenue businesses and there are a lot of these that were involved with as we speak.
In 2015 we expect to have record performance of Roper despite the fears around macroeconomics.
We are going to deploy over $1 billion.
We are very confident of and the year could easily be more than that.
The first deal Strata we talk about a little bit but its not going to be the only deal in the first quarter thats likely.
I think its important as we close out the call and get ready for the Q&amp;A here that we are really well positioned in 2015 because the company really the emergence as a technology platforms and our ability to deploy capital are slightly more important than many of the macroeconomic considerations in markets that so many people talk about.
So were looking forward to a great year in 2015 and with that we would like to open it up to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now go to our question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Well go first to Joe Ritchie at Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi.
Good morning Joe.
So I guess Ill be bracing myself for the -- the second slide on Medical and Scientific Imaging coming next quarter.
But the the first question I have for you guys  That won't be very important in that second slide that term Scientific Imaging.
Think about medical and software Joe.
Fair enough.
So I thought look good quarter good year.
Brian I know that your company has undergone a significant transformation since the 2008 2009 timeframe where we had energy prices implode.
But a lot of the acquisitions that have occurred -- has occurred outside of energy and the question I have is really on the energy portfolio.
And how has that evolved really since 2008 2009 where you just see some pretty significant organic growth declines during that timeframe.
Im just trying to get a sense for how the portfolio there has evolved? How you expect to have a more resilient earning stream in energy during this downturn that weve seen? Well certainly a big part of what happens in energy is our [Verathon] technology which has been very important for the continuous operation of what's going on with fracking.
It doesnt require new wells.
It doesnt require rig count or anything else and we didnt have that technology in 2008 thats only just appeared really in 2013 and 14.
So thats like an additional business that wasnt there previously.
We also acquired a software control company called the United Controls for CCC that offers various things that we didnt have out of CCC in terms of dealing with different types of gas turbine engine technologies on a retrofit basis and thats useful.
We had online software that we added to our PAC business Cambridge Viscosity and Trinity Software for CCC.
So weve got some things that continue to grow and arent related to rate counts and upstream activity.
So thats good.
I would say though there are businesses that are in oil &amp; gas are spectacularly great businesses.
They have EBITDA margins that are consistent with the overall enterprise EBITDA margins; and its pretty much or best in class activity.
Thank goodness the vast majority of their activity is not upstream.
Well over 60% of those businesses are downstream and midstream and so that helps a lot.
The other thing I would say Joe is that also who wants to learn from the successes that we had and what did occur in these businesses during 2009.
Well 2009 was really a demand shock.
It wasnt that price went down and therefore everything else went down.
The price went down because everything else went down.
All right so lets understand that we dont see an enormous decline so therefore the large installed base that we have around compressor controls and instrumentation for PAC which really serves the midstream and downstream markets those will continue because those are more throughput driven and we dont see the 15% kind of immediate demand of shock across not only that segment but the entire world that we saw in 2009.
So we want to make sure that we are very nimble in the way that we act and particularly on the upstream side where its always a little more cyclical than the rest of the oil stream market.
Okay thats -- now thats helpful color guys.
And I guess just maybe one follow-up here.
You talked about historically your incremental margins being in that 35% to 40% range but here you continue to do 40 plus.
As you head into 2015 your growth rate is going to slightly slower than 14 at least thats what youre projecting today.
And you had some headwinds in that RFX business in 2014 and so Im just trying to get a sense for your confidence in that 40 plus percent incremental and how are you guys thinking about that across the different parts of your portfolio? So I mean a little north of that number in medical given the underlying margin structure and the amount of software that we have not only there but also in RF.
When we look at Industrial and Energy thats where were probably a little more comfortable in the 35% to 45% range right a little bit wider variation there because not as much of it is the consistently high margin that we see across the other two.
But in terms of confidence going into 2015 we have a lot of confidence around that.
I would demonstrate in our ability to have that type of leverage not only around 2014 but also in previous years and with the contingent mix towards more technology I think thats a reasonable expectation for you.
Yes I think youve got to remember in 2015 that most of the incremental revenue which will result in the operating profit leverage is going to come from RF and from medical.
Were not going to have a lot of incremental revenue in energy and industrial in 2015.
So I wouldnt worry so much about the -- what that ratio is because its -- it maybe a very high number on a very small base.
Yes thats a fair point.
Ill get back in queue guys.
Thank you.
Well move next to Shannon O'Callaghan at UBS.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Good morning Shannon.
Good morning Shannon.
Welcome back.
Yes thanks.
Good to be back.
Hey maybe to start with medical.
Brian you sound very optimistic there.
Just curious how much of that is related to just where Roper has evolved to in the M&amp;A opportunities youre seeing versus how much you actually see the overall medical market getting better out there? Well we got a lot of different businesses here right.
So if we look at our medical products businesses those things are getting driven not so much by demography but by product technology that we continue to introduce and they are high margin businesses.
We do a lot of reinvestment in them and they really have market leading technology.
So they are not really driven by some aggregate number about demography or a medical market.
Then if you get to our Sunquest and MHA our businesses which are software and software like they are -- they have a lot of demography benefits.
I mean theres going to be more testing not less testing.
There is going to be more needs for post acute care.
Theres going to be more activity around Hospice and nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities and all those things that MHA does so well.
Were certainly going to bowl on some acquisition this year for MHA and youll see well just reinforce all those things in a big way.
So they are creating markets more so than anything else.
I mean these guys really are the leaders in that market place.
People do read across on us with somebody well they read across for Sunquest if you look at Cerner.
So look theyre doing well were doing well epic is doing well the space is doing well.
If you look then at the life science business that business it can has sort of preemptive technology related to filtering and camera technology for life science things that youre looking at molecular biology.
So its a great space.
Its going to do well.
The other ones which are very small really are less medical.
Theyre really more about nanotechnology and development in the physical sciences.
So that has less derived demand than the others do.
Okay great.
Now that helps a lot here thanks.
And then Im just -- obviously a lot more volatile world here so far in 2015.
How do you think thats impacting the M&amp;A world? You obviously sound very optimistic thats related or unrelated to the volatility.
But is this all a good or a bad thing in terms of what you think you can get done out there? Well the M&amp;A world hasnt changed very much.
When you think about the world in which we participate which is really primarily acquiring companies from private equity.
So were not out shopping around for public companies if you see a distorted value or something.
We tend to think public companys acquisitions are problematic for the most part.
I mean it could happen but its not where were looking.
So the only good new development in the M&amp;A front is that theres a lot more pressure on the banks to limit their debt to EBITDA staples to six times or five times.
And most of the last several years debt staples have been seven or seven and a half mezzanine coming on top of it.
So private equity could put in three year four turns of other peoples money and use debt at extremely high leverage ratios and be very definitive in the acquisition market.
So pretty much our competitors for -- when we think about who our competitors are and this is a capital deployment company at its core.
We look at all the large private equity guys.
We love them because they own a lot of stuff we want to acquire.
But were not willing to go up to four or five or six times debt to EBITDA and they start at six or seven times debt to EBITDA.
So its still a tough market for us.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Well go next to Deane Dray at RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
We appreciate the additional color on the -- and disclosures on the oil &amp; gas business because obviously theres still a lot of scrutiny there.
And then recognizing this is 5% of your business on the upstream side can you provide some more color on the assumption on the 20% market down? Because if you look at the CapEx sensitivity where oil is you could push that to 35% down 40% down but a lot of that hinges on CapEx and the fall off in customer CapEx and you said several times that youre not so leveraged to customer CapEx.
So maybe expand on that how much is aftermarket? The retrofit and field service part of your business and so how do you Im sure that leads you to that down 20% as your assumption.
So maybe just walk through how youre seeing that play out? John and I are looking at each other fighting to see who wants to answer this very fair question.
I mean unfortunately theres never any one answer because we have a role up here with the revenue weve shared with you and 5% is upstream and 9% is midstream and downstream.
But while the RF products and the markets we serve are so niche that they dont lend themselves to the same macroeconomic situation that you see with other people where you could look at rig counts.
For instance what we havent talked about is how much of our business is upstream oil and how much is upstream gas? How much is in the United States? How much is outside United States? And weve -- for competitive reasons dont want to get more granular than we have right? So we just feel that the retrofit activity that CCC does and it already has booked and continues to do will have growth.
The upstream portion that they have are related to any new LNG projects is going to be down and it could be down substantially beyond 20%.
But it wouldnt defect us until the second half of the year because the kind of things that we do on a project basis are still rolling along when one of our high growth small businesses is diesel engine shut-off valves which somebody had downstream but its really an upstream business.
That business last year was up 16%.
So we can imagine that it could be up so we think its going to be down the reversal will be more.
So but the only fair way to answer the question is; what if CapEx and others didnt sell off and you had a fee of 35% our view would be -- it would be 35% in the second half of the year but maybe 15% in the first half of the year.
So I think those people who are writing about fears in 2016 that were reading everything everybody is writing.
But we got no data to support any downturn yet except us being conservative and taking a 20% whack off of everything that goes into those markets.
John do you want to add to that? Yes I wouldnt add.
Mostly I think that Brian described what our views are with respect to the guidance and to the expectations for the end market.
What I would -- that I would say is that our businesses -- one of the great things about our business structure is we have people who are very close to their customers.
We have six different businesses that have some exposure to oil &amp; gas.
And so whether its Russ or its Kevin or Joe any of the guys that we know individually they are very close to their customers and can react very quickly to changes in demand.
They are not waiting for us and our assumptions about what's going to happen in the macro world to set their plans.
These are very quick businesses to act.
The asset light nature of our business means that they dont have a lot of fixed cost that require a long lead time in order to make adjustments to their cost structure.
So I have every confidence that these guys are very close to what's happening.
Well be able to act quickly whether that means that the market is going to be worse than we currently expect or its going to be better than we currently expect.
They are not looking to us for those answers.
They get to be very close with our customers and know exactly what's going on on a real time basis.
I think we need to also add because we probably dont explain this well enough is that our businesses in those spaces are not the least bit capital intensive and these are factory driven businesses.
These businesses can flex immediately and they have all kinds of flexing ability with manpower.
So most of the other companies in these segments theyve got big factory operations.
So what happens in a downturn for them is absorption wipes them off the base of the year.
We just dont have anything like that.
We just dont.
If you look at the physical asset investment that we have and add back accumulated appreciation to that number our gross investment is very very small even in the oil &amp; gas arena.
These are mostly test and assembly businesses.
There are only a few things we do that involve machining operation.
So a downturn to us is a lot different than a downturn to GEs oil &amp; gas business.
Look thats exactly the additional color that we were looking for on why you can set a number at 20% for that upstream piece.
So thats exactly what we were digging at.
And just as a follow-up a couple here.
Maybe you can flush out the expectations on the share gain for Roper Pump just anything quantitative what happened in 2014 regarding market share what the opportunity is? And then for John with the FX pressures were seeing a number of companies engaging for the first time some additional currency hedging and would that be appropriate for you guys? Hedging? So Ill take the second one first.
No we dont do hedging.
Our FX risk is not transactional.
We have a very good balance between where we generate revenue and where our cost structure lies.
So were not really subject to that risk.
The impact that we have is the translation effect of earnings as theyre generated whether theyre being Canadian dollars or theyre in euros or pounds.
And with respect to hedging I mean you can change the timing but you can't change the magnitude.
Eventually unless someone has figured out a way to hedge for the next 20 years they know what the currencies are doing do and you can hedge for a little while.
But those are folks that are really more plan driven and have much longer cycles than I think our company does.
So as we look at the sensitivity I think Brian has already mentioned the fact that we are expecting little bit less than 2% headwind from an FX standpoint for 2015 that translates to about a dime.
So well have to see what the future holds.
And on the market share expectations? So Roper Pump was up about 20% in 2014 with -- frankly they were up almost double that in the second half of 2014 as production ramped up for the facility not really facility driven but the fact that where the share gains required us to go ahead and expand some capabilities there.
And so it really doubled their growth rates towards the back half of the year.
And as Brian said it gives us a little bit of a easier comp in the first half of the year because we do expect to maintain those share gains with the expansion of some of our Verathon product lines.
Great.
Thank you.
Well go next to Jeff Sprague at Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gents.
Good morning.
Just a couple of things.
Brian you mentioned divestitures twice in your pitch.
I was wondering if you could just -- obviously youre not going to identify businesses but it sounds like you are more actively looking at that.
Perhaps just a little bit more color on your thought process there.
Well I dont know about us looking at it more actively but yet we certainly have had more inbound requests and we dont even follow-up I mean its very rare there is anything we own that were interested in getting rid of but somebody might talk us out of something.
So I think its possible that you could see a divestiture within 2015 but it wouldnt be a very meaningful -- it would be a non-strategic asset if we did sell something.
Okay.
Could you roughly size now maybe just as a percent of the segment the three buckets in medical now? Three medical products and then software [indiscernible].
Software and life sciences.
Yes.
Sure.
So medical represents about 80% of the segment and then its split very evenly between the medical service and technology the medical products.
Now Im talking from a revenue perspective now.
So 80% net so call it 40% medical technology and service 40% medical products and 20% imaging.
Now from a contribution to earnings the medical technology comes in higher from an EBITDA perspective so its either more strong on the medical technology front.
Great.
And Brian this question also kind of comes up strategically but it kind of tweaked me to ask it.
You mentioned Cerner as a comp TradeNet some 40 times earnings or so.
We do have a -- you have a very interesting unique portfolio here thats really not an industrial company anymore.
What's your thought process around the company in its current configuration? So we like the configuration.
We got a great industrial and energy business that throws off a massive amount of cash that provides a wonderful annuity for us to go out and maintain an investment grade status and acquire a lot of great software and medical businesses and thats what weve been doing for a long time.
When theres a confluence of reports that you see out there I think they fundamentally keep talking about or how are you trading as a premium to the multi industry group.
It seems so high when in reality its beautifully low against who we actually compete against for market capital.
So at some point in time if that doesnt get recognized better than it does from time-to-time theres always flexibility in what we would do.
But were going to keep building out our situation.
Now we started from next to nothing to create a billion dollar medical and software company.
Our RF business is largely a software company and industrial with Neptune Neptune is not really industrial its really radio frequency.
It just reports over there.
So I think youre likely to see more internal strategic developments around these various businesses than you are seeing something that would result in selling off a big component of it or anything like that.
And then just one other really quick one youre at 1.8 churns and you said youll be comfortable to add a churn folks call it basically 3-ish.
Are you comfortable to just operate perpetually at 3 or is that kind of you flex to 3 and then you work it back down to 2 sort of thing.
Well I think it will just depend on the quality of everything that we see.
Its not -- when we model ourselves we model very modest organic growth and kind of 2.5 times debt to EBITDA.
I think when were below 2.5 times we feel sort of underinvested and if we got up to 3.25 we wouldnt be the least to concern with the quality of our cash.
I mean last year for instance we closed out year-over-year that balance sheet up $400 million in cash and we paid for $300 million of acquisitions.
And if you look at $2.2 billion of powder you got to figure another what do we say $900 million operating cash flow this year.
So be it $3 billion it would be nice to get $1.5 billion to work over the next 12 to 15 months to keep our ratios where we are.
So at the moment were underinvested but thats because of our discipline not because of the opportunity.
And like I said Strata is not going to be our only acquisition this quarter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Audra even though were at 9:30 I think we have time for maybe one or two more questions.
Okay.
We will go next to Christopher Glynn at Oppenheimer.
Good morning.
Good morning Glynn.
Couple of questions within RF on TransCore and iTrade.
TransCore I think historically the international deals have been sort of one off and it sounds like now youre alluding Brian to maybe more sustained skill opportunity so curious about that.
And then with iTradeNetwork just if we could elaborate on what's sort of off the tracks in the UK and how FoodLink is opening up the addressable markets there for ITN? Well the international business TransCore is sizable and very important.
I mean theres a lot of things we do but they have been -- its not broad based.
They are specific situations were developing a relationship with the government or developing a relationship with a particular agency so thats the case in Dubai.
Well people travel in and out of Dubai marvel at simplicity all of the way that traffic moves and how easy it is to buy a tag.
Its certainly not lost on any of the other Arab countries.
All of them would like to be deploying these technologies.
So the Saudis now have this breakthrough project in Riyadh.
We assume it will be widely successful and that will encourage them to put in change orders to expand it there and hopefully over the next 10 years well have a much much larger degree of penetration around the Arab peninsula.
We are very well positioned in that area to continue to grow and if you hadnt had the year of spring you would have seen a lot more activity than it has been able to occur.
In Europe they are pretty well served today so I dont think were going to expand much in Europe and in Asia generally we have a lot of issues when to get around the quotation.
We have few a lot -- very specific boundaries.
One is no Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that some of the people whore competing in this space dont seem to be bothered by that.
But were very very conservative in that area.
So this Saudi project is a big deal.
Its going to be pushing $100 million over the next several years and we expect it to be $25 million or $30 million this year to offset the Toronto wind down.
On the subject to iTrade; iTrade is really doing much better now in the U.S.
and FoodLink is substantially ahead of the early commitments after just a few months I think weve made a number of improvements to their processes and theyve got good leadership from their own people and our people that are supporting them.
In the UK the pub businesses have been off quite a bit and the U.Ks had considerable difficulty with -- its really not iTrade its an acquisition that the KKR people have done just before we bought it but we would have never done.
And its always been problematic and its really more about data analytics that really ought be owned by somebody thats in the package good analytics arena but were going to try to clean it up and make it a little bit better.
The end markets havent been very favorable.
Great.
Thanks for the story.
And well go next to Richard Eastman at Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning Brian John Rob.
Good morning.
Brian could you just talk for a second about Strata.
Maybe give some could you just talk about how much you maybe paid for the business? And then also is there a tie-in with SHP here in terms of taking their accounting software from the non-profit environment to the clinical market? And then maybe just lastly on that acquisition; it seems there is a number of these smaller healthcare software businesses owned by private equity and perhaps private equity hasnt been able to build the scale with these businesses that they might -- you might otherwise think they could? And Im curious under your ownership I mean do you -- are you more confident that you can cobble these businesses together and create some scale here? Well were going to do a great job with the businesses but it won't be by cobbling them together.
Were un-cobblers here.
Consolidation rarely sustains growth companies.
These businesses when private equity owns them they always own them with an eye to exit.
So their first year 18<sup> </sup>months of ownership theyre happy to make investments but they got to stop on a dime.
And they have to capitalize the leverage they get out of those investments because they got to get rid of it in four or five year.
So it almost invariable and we acquire them were acquiring something that has been under invested in for growth for 18 month or two-year period and the people cant focus as much on their end markets saying growth as they can when they come here because now they can stop worrying about managing for a sale and start worrying about serving their customers and thinking clearly about where to put their resources.
Thats the reason that were the successful acquirer of so many of these kinds of businesses.
Im sure that Barbara at Strategic Healthcare could have probably -- frankly gotten a larger number from somebody else that would have wiped out everything she built in Santa Barbara and absorbed it because they would have wanted to cobble it together with something and the same thing would be true in Dans business in Chicago with Strata.
So Strata is going to be a platform for us even though its relatively small now.
It's not something that gets cobble together with Sunquest or with MHA.
Now we are going to make other acquisitions some very quickly that will be very complimentary to an MHA and very complementary to Sunquest.
So there is a lot of opportunity that we didnt have to find those kinds of things.
We are always looking for great teams great ability to grow buying a business thats got a little over $30 million in revenue and to grow 20% is more interesting than buying a business at $50 million of revenue that cant grow at all.
So we are excited about that.
If you noted in Strata thats an LLC.
So the big -- one of the big things about economics here is we get a really big tax benefit.
In fact our gross tax benefit on Strata is going to be of $40 million.
So thats a major part of the consideration in the purchase price of the business and Strata is a business thats going to have over $30 million of revenue and its going to have the EBITDA in our typical Roper kind of strategies and the purchase price is $140 million but that included the $40 million plus of tax benefits.
Well when I talk about -- again when I look at their customer base in Strata it would just seem that you could share and leverage kind of the customer basis thats some of these other businesses say SHP because I look at -- again I look at Strata having been around for since 96 and the $30 million revenue number at them.
So the dynamics and the economics of that business for their customers has improved apparently over the last five years and the demand factor there? Yes I think thats true and also just the expansion that Dan and his team been able to do in terms of the product lines and the other things that helped people on the cost side.
Well what I would say is that -- look we do see opportunities for these businesses to be able to learn from each other.
I know that both Strata and SHP are very excited about the product lines that each of them have and the opportunities there to be able to learn from each other.
Its always balance for us.
We think there is incredible value in having a business focused on its niche and on its existing customers particularly one with that has so much runway and ability to capture opportunities like Strata.
But we do see the ability to have Strata work with maybe another market opportunity that MHA may have.
So we see those as future opportunities but we never want to have someone take their eye off the ball of the current niche focus that they have.
So were not going to try to combine anything together.
We always think if we have smart people in the room together that will be able to learn something.
I got it.
Okay well thank you.
Thanks for getting the question in.
Thanks Rich.
And that will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Audra.
Once again everyone thanks for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you again in three months as we finish up our first quarter.
And again that does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to todays Roper Technologies First Quarter 2015 financial results conference call.
Just a reminder that todays call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Laurie and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss our first quarter results.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Soni Vice President and Controller and Rob Crisci Vice President of Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
Our press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the webcast available -- the link for our website is available on our website www.ropertech.com.
Please turn to slide 2.
We begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call well be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of all that information.
Now if you please turn to slide 3.
Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation in the appendix.
For the first quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted consists of a purchase accounting adjustment to acquired deferred revenue and our recent software acquisitions.
The total of this is about $1.9 million which is an add back to both revenue and to operating profit.
As a reminder this represents revenue absent our acquisition those businesses would have recognized this is solely as a result of our acquisition that requires us to have this revenue adjustment.
And now if you please turn to the next slide Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thanks John good morning everybody I think I have a slide that says Q1 enterprise results so we'll turn past that and discuss Roper Technologies just for a minute.
We're delighted to be bringing this mornings call to you as Roper Technologies for the first time.
We changed the name after the market closed on Friday.
The ticker symbol is going to remain the same at ROP the way The New York Stock Exchange works our name changes takes perhaps two days for the trades to go in as Roper Technologies but you're certainly available to buy the stock today.
You can expect to begin trading on Wednesday we believe in the Roper Tech and John mentioned its ropertech.com now for the website that's been changed over the weekend I think the link to these slides are on it.
If you're having any trouble with normal page [ph] you can go there.
And the seasons for Roper Technologies is sort of obvious I think for those of us that have been talking with you for the last several years all you have to really do is look at our gross margins which this quarter are 60% to recognize this simply is not an industrial company.
The quality of our businesses the nature of the amount of money they reinvest to grow themselves and develop technology the gross margins they have and their long-term growth rates reflect the idea that really is a technology company now and the opportunities that we have are far greater than they used to be a decade ago when people where focused on product businesses as opposed to software and medical technologies and information networks that could become ubiquitous for niche applications.
Next slide.
If we look at the first quarter enterprise results we were able to power through any of the difficulties with oil and gas upstream stuff that people were talking about including ourselves going into the quarter.
So we achieved record orders revenue net earnings EBITDA and cash flow.
Our organic revenue was up 5% we had established guidance at around 3% to 5% throughout the year Q1 being strong and Q3 being strong we think over the course of the year on the organic slide.
Growth clearly was led by medical and radio frequency segments and I'll talk specifically about those shortly.
Foreign exchange caused us 3% in the quarter on revenue.
Our gross margins as I mentioned hit 60% which is a historical breakthrough for us they were up 140 basis points.
The operating margin was up 190 basis points speaking again to leverage and efficiency to 28.7%.
When you think about amortization the non-cash amortization we have if you looked at our EBITA results that's how you can see we do so well on cash they were 33% in the quarter.
Net earnings were up 7% to $157 million DEPS $1.55.
Much more importantly is the cash we had the same number of shares that generate cash as generate net earnings and our free cash flow was $250 million up 24% in the quarter compared to the $157 million that we report on a diluted EPS basis.
We deployed $590 million on three great medical software companies.
Well explain those three during course of the morning.
So were really positioned after Q1 which was probably going to -- we always thought it would have been the weakest quarter we had for a record 2015.
Next slide.
If we look at the income statement in Q1 youll see book-to-bill was 0.98.
You may remember were always talking about 0.97 to 1.03 is kind of a span thats meaning once it just normal sea because we have so many different issues around when projects did and what have you.
So were quite comfortable with that.
Revenue as we said was up 5% despite the 3% FX headwinds.
As reported its 4% on an organic basis its 5%.
If we look at the gross profit one of the points I make in addition to the 60% reflecting our technology platforms its really amazing to grow a 140 basis points of gross margin in a quarter.
If you were a 35% gross margin company getting into 36% people would be raving about it.
But wholly [ph] its just amazing when youre at 58.6% that you can get it to 60%.
Operating income was up 11% to $249 million.
We mentioned the margin up 190 basis points above the gross margin improvement.
The earnings before tax were up 11% but we had real tax headwinds in the first quarter compared to last year.
Youll see our tax rate was up 300 basis points and the headwind cost us $0.07 a share.
Even with that the DEPS still were $1.55 against $1.46 last year.
Next slide.
If you look at our cash flow it continues to amaze as we compound the cash flow because I suppose if you are using one word to describe the Company any more it might be that theyre really a compounder.
Our first quarter cash flow of $260 million is a 22% increase and we spent around $10 million in CapEx.
So our free cash flow as we said is up 24%.
The conversion rate on our free cash flow is 161%.
Now thats beyond spectacular.
It represents almost 29% of free cash flow to sales but in the first quarter we dont have US fed tax cash payment.
So it tends to be just a little bit overstated in the first quarter.
You can see for that reason we put the trailing 12 months free cash flow of $851 million which is 24% of revenue and a conversion rate on a trailing 12 months basis of 130% in kind of keeping with our commitments that we expect it always to be above 120% over the course of the year.
We still believe strongly that cash is the best measure of performance not some of the things that other people look at.
We dont provide cash per share but we sure think about how much the cash is year-over-year.
Next slide.
The asset-like business model its really a critical important because well lot of people talk about business systems.
Basically our governance process model is our business system and one of its core components is our focus on working capital.
Here you can see if we just look at the last couple of years inventory has dropped from the end of the first quarter of 2013 at 6.8% to 5.7%.
In this quarter receivables have come in a little bit.
Payables and accruals are about the same as they were.
So we find that our net working capital number for the end of Q1 is 5%.
Thats a 270 basis point improvement in just two years time.
And what I think is incredibly important is if you look at the long history of this continuous journey weve had on getting more asset-like having much higher velocity I looked back at where we were in the first quarter ten years ago in 2005 and at that time our inventory was around 10% versus 5.7% today and receivables were 18.4%.
The payables and accruals were about 14% versus 18%.
So when you net those numbers ten years ago we were above 14% in net working capital and here we are now at 5% and I can assure you that our governance process it has a great deal to do with that focus.
Next slide.
We look at financial position of the company.
You can see that cash has gone up from a year-agos quarter from $500 million [ph] to $615 million.
Our cash and undrawn revolver is still $1.7 billion.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA has gone up from $1.118 billion to $1.223 billion.
And what is really clear is in the last nine months we have deployed $900 million in acquisitions and yet our gross debt ratio is exactly the same as it was a year ago at 2.1 and our net debt-to-EBITDA is about 1.6.
So our balance sheet still has large room for us to continue to make acquisitions over the next 12 months to 15 months and there are a lot of exciting things that we are involved with today.
So we feel that both the balance sheet and pipeline are very strong.
Next slide.
Here we will get into the specific segment detail of each of the segments.
So the next slide is our first quarter 2015 segment performance where you can see how the four layout they all have great gross margins and EBITDA margins.
But the power of our RF and Medical Technology businesses becomes much much clear to people when you look these slides.
You will see for instance Medical alone in the quarter generated $135 million of EBITDA.
If you added both Energy at $36 million and Industrial at $63 million together you get $99 million.
So Medical was a 136% more EBITDA than those other two businesses combined.
And if we look at RF and Medical they represented 69% of the enterprise EBITDA compared to 30% for the Industrial and Energy businesses.
Next slide.
The first segment well review today is the Energy System because its  we will go with smallest to largest.
As you can see in the pie chart Energy business in Q1 represented 11% of Roper EBITDA.
It had negative organic growth of 5% and FX cost of 5%.
The oil and gas markets were as weak as we expected.
Upstream businesses particularly in orders was down double-digits and we dont see that really improving throughout the year I think could probably deteriorate a little further.
Large projects remain particularly slow which affects our compressor controls business and still has decent opportunity in front of it.
But cost actions were taken in some of these businesses that are all nimble.
They have a huge advantage because we just have this asset wide footprint everywhere so we dont have to do much around plans but we have done a few things investing a little less than $1 million in restructuring charges within the quarter and thats inside the numbers not an excluded item.
We had modest organic growth in the refinery application businesses.
People seem to feel thats going to continue to improve throughout the year.
Our other served markets in Energy which represents about 40% of the segment couple of those businesses that were instrumentation oriented were up and a couple of the businesses that were sensor products were down.
For the second quarter through the fourth quarter of the year we would think the oil and gas markets will remain challenging with 20% of this business upstream and 40% down to Midstream.
We wouldnt see that improving during the course of the year but sequentially it will get better just because Q1 is always our lowest quarter.
We think we will have flat to modest growth in the other served markets that we have that report through the Energy Systems segment.
The FX headwind should drive mid-single digit segment decline for the balance of the year in our opinion but we do think we will have a stronger sequential reporting numbers in the second quarter than we did in the first and I would point out that gross margins in Energy in the first quarter were still 55%.
So this is not a business thats under siege by any stretch.
Next slide.
Here if we look Industrial Technology organic revenue was actually just modestly positive one point of organic revenue.
We had FX headwinds which were a negative four points in here.
The share gains at Roper Pump gave us double-digit growth despite the declines in the upstream market which is exactly what we predicted when we established the guidance.
Neptunes Toronto project is nearing a successful conclusion.
Its down year-over-year on a quarter basis and it will start to be down a little bit more than that in the second third and fourth quarters compared to the prior year so its a headwind basically for the company.
We had growth at our Cornell Pump business that was driven by new products and the niche applications that they are involved with.
They may have a little bit of a tougher time with rental companies in the latter part of year but it's still holding up well at the moment.
Our Material Analysis businesses were down slightly but we had terrific orders in fact all-time record orders for our stores [ph] business in the first quarter which was a pleasant surprise.
If we look at that project completion for Toronto we think it should be sometime in the summer.
We think we will continue to have weakness in the upstream portion of fluid handling for Roper and Cornell.
The Material Analysis business we think will continue to improve and given the FX headwinds we would expect kind of mid-single-digit segment decline for the balance of the year after a little bit of positive and this represents about 20% of the EBITDA for the Enterprise.
Next slide here is Ropers RF technology business.
That business had organic revenue growth in the quarter of 11% and had a point of FX headwind and we actually sold our product line which is called Black Diamond that was a defense oriented rugged computer technology that really belonged in the hands of somebody that was clearly in that business.
And we achieved a sale of that product line in the quarter which added a little downward pressure and its been removed from the base line.
We had very strong growth in toll and traffic our technology which is trademarked Infinity Digital Lane Systems continues to be deployed rapidly in Florida and Texas and the bidding activity around our Infinity Lane Systems is very robust.
We had very significant tag shipments that benefitted both the revenue and the operating margin.
You can see the OP profit at $74 million was up 19% compared to the first quarter of a year ago.
And we had quite significant subscriber additions to our SaaS based freight matching model which gave us double-digit growth and normally that is a business that grows toward a single digit.
So that was very encouraging.
For the second part of the year Q2 through Q4 we think the backlog is going to support the toll and traffic growth.
The Riyadh project begins in earnest in the second quarter and our tag shipments strength that we expect to continue with kind of known places for deployment.
Our software and SaaS businesses we think will grow mid-single-digits but they do give us very very outstanding cash return.
So modest growth there as always with a lot of cash.
And we think we'll have kind of mid-single-digit organic growth for the segments for the balance of the year.
And you can see RF represents 27% of our EBITDA here in the pie.
Next slide.
If you look at Medical Solutions Medical was up 15% in revenue and 22% in operating profit and OP margin was up 230 basis points to 37.3% and its lot of non-cash amortization in Medical.
If I look at the EBITA margin its 44.9% so truly outstanding businesses.
Organic revenue was up 7% we get the 3 points in negative FX in there.
Our MHA business had double-digit growth that was really driven by market conditions and new customer additions that weve gotten as they continue to focus on building that platform.
We had double-digit growth at our Verathon product business.
We got a series of product introductions we talked about last year all of which are doing well and we continue to build out their channel to get better coverage.
Sunquest growth continued despite a difficult comparison.
Last year we had a considerable revenue as a result of implementing meaningful use program.
So one thing is to sell the software but implementation is different  a diverse revenue stream and that heightened last years numbers so it will be difficult as a comp throughout this year but the underlying recurring revenue continues to grow nicely.
The Scientific Imaging businesses were pretty flat here.
As you will notice we are really calling out the segment as Medical Solutions because the Scientific Imaging portion really is down pretty much microscopy applications.
There is not a lot of stuff here to talk about anymore.
We did deploy $590 million of investment in three great medical software acquisitions for the medical solutions business.
I will explain those in a moment.
For the balance of the year we think MHA is going to continue to benefit from favorable market conditions most of us appear to be getting older and there are a whole wide variety of people that provide services to and the execution that MHA has is really really world-class.
Sunquest we think is going to continue to perform well against those difficult comps I mentioned above and Sunquest has a great deal of initiatives around 2016 that are gaining momentum certainly did in the first quarter and are continuing now.
Some of those we can't really talk a lot about because theyre proprietary but theyre very exciting development opportunities for Sunquest.
The medical products growth we think would be led by Verathon and Northern Digital in the last three quarters as their pace picks up particularly there.
We think we will get mid-teens revenue growth for the segment and the acquisitions that we made in the quarter are really going to help our future growth because there are synergies in the marketplace as they coordinate more with Sunquest and MHA in the future.
Next slide if we look at these three healthcare IT acquisitions these are all software companies the first Strata Decision Technologies in Chicago has great leader a wonderful team theyre really providing subscription financial analytics and performance platforms for hospitals.
These enterprise-wide things are really around the effectiveness and cost reduction opportunities for hospitals and decision support so that they can kind of think of themselves a little bit more like the rest of us think about cost and continuous improvement and the technology is really spectacular.
Now they are already in one out of five US hospitals with one or more of their applications but they are very early stage for the new applications that have been developed which is part of the reason we -- they really needed to be acquired by somebody like us who can rapidly invest in the development of those.
SoftWriters is a business thats going to be co-ordinated with MHA it's in the long-term care pharmacy space it provides enterprise software for people who do that work it has on-premise software delivery models that get recurred billing e-prescriptions or something that rapidly is growing and this facilitates that.
They have the exact same customer base really as MHA so the two together are going to create a better service footprint for customers.
In Data Innovations this is a business that will closely align with Sunquest.
Its the largest clinical and blood laboratory middleware provider and if you think about middleware you might think about you having to download your printer driver to get your laptop or CPU to print properly well.
Data Innovations for one of a better way to explain it is really the ability to connect to communicate between lab instruments and the tests that are deployed and then that information showing up where the hospital needs to have it.
The Data Innovations has the largest library with over 1 000 laboratory devices types of devices connected all over the world.
They are deployed in 80 countries and you can just imagine the hundreds of thousands of tests and feedback that are required to the clinical use of the data that they are interacting with.
This adds a lot to our Sunquest capabilities in the hospital laboratory markets and both companies should be better as a result of the synergies that we get out of this transaction.
Next slide would be to update our guidance.
When we look at the next slide if you look at the second quarter and the full year guidance were raising the guidance from $6.70 to $6.75 on the low-end up to $6.95 at the high-end.
Unfortunately the FX headwinds are much greater.
We started the year with using the year-end number and that created a $0.10 drag.
That's now up to $0.25 drag as a result of where the currencies are at the end of the first quarter.
Our tax rate we still expect to be sort of 30% to 31% a little higher it was in the first quarter.
Organic growth we think will still be in the 3% to 5% thing with the Q1 being strong Q3 organic should be strong second quarter probably not as strong and the fourth quarter if we get normal year-end activity should be pretty strong again.
We are going to raise our full-year cash flow to $925 million and we established guidance in the second quarter with $1.59 to $1.64 which recognizes the FX challenge that we will have there.
Next slide.
If we look down at the summary before we open it for questions we had basically record results across the board in the quarter which is a nice way to start out with Roper Technologies.
Organic growth at 5% with Medical and RF driving mostly all of them.
Operating margins at astonishing records at 28.7% and free cash flow up 24% to $250 million demonstrating the importance of focusing on how much cash people generate versus sometimes people looking too much on the net earnings number.
We deployed $590 million on those three great acquisitions the pipeline is terrific.
We have a lot of things open that we are interested in and several things that we are really excited about.
We do think we will have a record year in 2015 just powering through the end market challenges we have in some of our businesses.
And we are able to raise our DEPS and cash flow guidance even though the FX headwinds increased by another $0.15 a share.
So with that we would like to open it up for questions for the first time for Roper Technologies.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Deane Dray at RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you good morning everyone and congratulations on the name change.
Hey thank you.
Good morning Deane.
Just to start off may be expand your comments on the market share gains at Roper Pump just the timing of this is pretty impressive that despite all the worries about oil youve got the ability to grow market share.
Are you getting price and are you building backlog in that business? Well the thing you want to balance that off with is that we invested in a new facility that gave us larger diameter opportunities to provide product in the drilling side of the business and that came live in the second half of last year has been building.
So we have favorable comp in the first half of this year where that continues to go up.
The upstream business on the core pump technology was okay in the first quarter but we expect it to be off throughout the remainder of the year.
And in the second half of the year we will circle up with the comps from last year.
So it will still be better than a year ago and it helps us at the expense of certain other people that we are making those products.
In addition these drill things get relined.
So thats like a continuous thing that happens no matter what the level of new drilling is should get the relining and thats a significant business which is what we do in Houston.
So all thats good.
But you still have to moderate that with the fact that the absolute core portion of the upstream pump business will decline throughout the year.
And as far as the second part of your question Deane around pricing its bit of  well its really been a technology provider more so than a broad line supplier to the end market in total.
So we have very niche applications where in many cases we are the only person who can really provide the solution thats being required.
So as we went through all of our quarterly reviews as far as the things that we did ask about and test but so far thats not a concern for us.
I think thats also reflected in the fact that gross margin continues to be very strong inside both the Energy and Industrial segments where it was 55% in Energy and 50% in Industrial.
So thats really the proof with respect to price if thats holding well then gross margins generally hold well.
Thanks.
And can you provide some more color on the restructuring actions that youve taken.
I know Roper is not big on doing any centralized head quarter directed restructuring.
So on the $1 million thats been done so far is there more to do and what kind of payback are you expecting? You know the payback comes within the year itself so its  these are always just discontinued activity and a reduction in headcount.
People are very quick to do that.
We had everybody together in December challenging field plans for 2015 which we thought were optimistic and unfortunately we were proven correct.
So early in the first quarter as they were monitoring January and then February they took actions in February based on the first level of trip equilibrium.
I think they have other things that they could do in the second quarter and then they generally would be around equivalent stock.
There aren't any plant sections to close or things like that it's just not how the business works there is very light factory footprints at the end of all those businesses.
So we don't have anything planned in Q2 but I think you have things more to deteriorate further they take out more people.
And then just last question from me.
Was the Black Diamond divestiture was that the divestiture that you talked about a small divestiture you're contemplating is that the one and could you size that for us please? It was a very modest divestiture may be six seven years ago and made some investments in order to better commercial that technology.
And at the end of the day because of its focus on defense related activity it's sort of the only business the only product line that we had that sold into the defense world.
And so it just wasn't a good fit for us and we actually found a home that we think is going to be much better fit.
But at the end of the day was a very very modest transaction.
Great thank you.
And we'll go next to Shannon O' Callaghan at UBS.
Good morning guys.
Hey good morning Shannon.
Okay on the 60% growth margin in the first quarter maybe just a little more color on that I mean as you said up 140 bps is a lot and to see that in 1Q.
A little more color on what drove that where there any mix things that were unique to the quarter or how much of it sort of sustained itself? Yeah if you look at industrial is about 50% which was the same as it was before energy was 55% its quite similar to where it was and RF was 54% up a little bit but medical at 74% gross margin.
So as it drives a bigger and bigger every increasing piece of the enterprise that really helps and then frankly pricing is holding quite well for us across the board in all four segments.
And people have been very focused here on gross margin and theyre very focused on asset velocity so it just gets constant attention the way we look at our business model.
And this is a situation where the mix effect is the result of strategic actions that we have taken over the years right.
So those areas that have higher gross margin was generally our higher quality businesses they are higher quality because they are providing a service they're providing a solution that theyre able to get paid for.
And so that quality measure and our continued investment in those areas is reflected and the fact that our gross margin is higher.
Okay great.
And then just on sort of then I guess the non oil and gas parts of energy to some degree you've got the organic revenue growth in the first quarter down 5% and FX down 5% so total down 10%.
For the year you're saying down mid-single oil is not expecting to get better what does get better there in terms of easing pressure or I guess improving growth for the year? So it's going to be the non-upstream portions of that business.
So the other markets that are served there which aren't oil and gas related which is about 40% of the segment.
And then frankly there are some things that are expected to occur on the downstream market particularly for our CTC business and some projects that they have very good line of sight on.
Some of those have been lower on the decision making so I think you've started to see that but those are still things that we expect to see with still investment around the world and things like L&amp;G plants and other applications.
So it's going to the non-upstream but you're right we don't expect the upstream to get any better.
Okay great thanks a lot guys.
Moving next to Steve Tusa at J.P.
Morgan.
All right good morning.
Hey good morning Steve.
Can you just talk about the -- I guess just in general what the -- kind of second quarter organic number is going to be? Well weve to look it all again in the second quarter.
Expectation is that well also be somewhere in the probably 3% to 5% range probably closer to 3% and 5%.
So thats kind of whats baked into our guidance and expectation for the second quarter.
Okay.
And as far as the kind of midpoint to midpoint I mean you have some things moving around here.
Obviously kudos to you guys for being able to raise the guidance when others are clearly cutting.
Could you maybe just walk us midpoint to midpoint? You gave us the forex headwind tax little bit of a headwind.
How much of the offset is on the EPS line is on from acquisitions? Well the acquisitions are about the same as the FX.
[00:01:04]Theyre pretty close to neutralizing the X which is really good generally you know theyre going to be strong cash accretion but actually theyre going to be EPS accretive.
So they largely make up for that FX headwind that went up by $0.15.
And rest of the operations -- and rest of the operations Steve weve some puts and takes by segment versus what we thought maybe 90 days ago both industrial and energy are little bit weaker than what we thought but thats more than offset by the fact that medical and our toll and traffic businesses are better than we would have expected 90 days ago.
So the continued push in those areas and the performance out of those businesses is doing a little bit better than the weakness that we see on the energy side.
Right.
And then just to confirm so obviously if you guys are doing around closer to the 3% in the second quarter there are things that kind of pick up for you in the back half of the year on the kind of getting you comfortably within the 3% to 5% range? Absolutely.
Probably so.
Okay.
And then one more question.
Just -- Brian maybe just the state of the union on the deal environment? Well its kind of encouraging we got a couple of deals that people were trying to sell that did not get done which is a nice early warning indicator for people who may not have adjusted their valuation expectations.
And you got a lot of people who are interested in getting deals done because its not quite clear how the high yield credit markets are going to hold up here in perpetuity when guys are looking and say 450 basis points spreads on high yield.
There is amazing amount of different opinions around how that goes but there is a great deal of assets that are in the marketplace for sale.
I just think you have to work harder than ever because a lot of the best things have traded in the last couple of years and some of the really great things that are out there people are kind of holding off on until next year but given the fact that we want to deploy another $1 billion $1.5 billion in the next 12 months we dont really have.
Were going to see a challenge around that its easy to do.
Its getting harder to find $2 billion deal right now than it was two years ago but Id say its a little bit better environment for transactions than it was.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from Christopher Glynn at Oppenheimer.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So just had a question about the levity in the margin at RF and what are the takeaways there between volume leverage mix and then maybe productivity or value-based pricing? I know there was some succession there.
You mean -- Im sorry you said that with respect to RF? Yes.
So what did you see in RF for this quarter particularly is very strong performance and high shipments of tags and associated technology from our toll and traffic business.
So Chris as you know we have -- inside there we have the very consistently high margin software businesses.
And so the variances are generally going to be driven by our toll and traffic business.
If you have more project work then it adds pressure on the margin but if you have more hardware tag and technology shipments then you have margin upside and thats what we saw this quarter.
So very shipments for the Infinity Lane system as well as additional tags being sold and shipped to Texas and Florida and lots of other places North Carolina et cetera Oklahoma also.
So those tagged shipments help us out on the margin front and that was the case for the first quarter.
And is there a long-term shift underway towards more favorable mix within toll and traffic? What's happening is that there are Infinity Lane Technology is really very proprietary right so more and more people recognize how much more effective it is as a technology than other things people have used for a very long period of time and I think it will be for some considerable period longer a bigger piece of the pie and so as that happens that's very beneficial.
Thanks.
And then on a separate matter to what extent are MHA and Sunquest now identifying some of the deals and how -- with these properties how is the deal sourcing process evolving is it becoming more distributed? Yes and no.
What happens is that they have really wide platforms that you can add things to and there are a lot of small niche businesses that can be helped by joining up with either an MHA or Sunquest and they are very well known to us.
So there is a long list of things that we could continue to build out but we are also building the human capital inside both these businesses quickly.
So we've added the people that are running Data Innovations and software and Strata.
These are really great people.
And so they bring with them the ability to make bolt-on stuff and get it integrated much more effective than some of the other businesses weve owned in the past.
So that's helpful and there are a lot of small players.
I mean we've invested $900 million in the last nine months but weve done six deals to do it and our general ammo would be we would have done $1 billion transaction like an MHA.
So having the leadership teams at MHA and Sunquest makes the acquisition -- capital deployment investment situation easier for us.
Now that said we are still doing it here and so we will bring those management teams with us but the decision around capital deployment is going to remain at the headquarters.
Thanks.
Congrats on the recent deals.
Thank you.
Well go next to Richard Eastman at Robert W.
Baird.
Hi just a couple of questions.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning John.
Just a couple of questions on the tolling business traffic and tolling business was the Riyadh order was that booked in the first quarter here? Part of it.
Yeah.
A very small portion was in the first quarter but the bulk of that was in the second quarter.
Was in the second quarter okay.
And then you said is that the Infinity Sorry.
Rick I'm sorry I misspoke.
It was booked in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then is that for the Infinity Lane system does that project include that? No it does not.
This is a signaling and traffic management solution so the trends with software as well as all of the other work that goes along with putting in a modern traffic management system inside a very congested city is what that project is.
So it's not a toll solution it's a traffic management solution.
Okay.
And so just conversely then as Riyadh starts to ship in the second quarter the margins in the toll in the RF business probably settled down a bit with that mix? Is that a fair way to think about the margin profile going forward? The overall mix particularly at the beginning is going to be lower.
So think of it as Manhattan where we -- TransSuite runs the traffic light system in Manhattan.
So that's what we are going to do in Riyadh but there is a lot of heavy lifting upfront to accommodate the ability to get this technology embedded everyplace it needs to be.
So the technology is higher margin but the service component with local people doing that work will be low margin and this is a lower margin stuff.
Sure okay.
And then just a quick question on the core local currency growth rate assumption when you mention industrial tech and also the energy business I'm thinking you had commented on the total growth for those segments including FX.
So if we just back out FX for the industrial tech business is the core growth there still modest positive and then for energy is it -- what does that look like without currency for the full year? Okay.
So for the full year so let me go for the remainder of the year so for the remainder of the year we expect energy to be about flat on an organic basis plus or minus a little bit.
Yes okay.
And then industrial tech? And industrial tech is very similar.
Once again remember we are completing the Toronto project.
So the completion of that project gives us about a $30 million headwind this year in total.
And so including that we expect on an organic basis industrial will also be maybe flat maybe up a little bit.
Okay I'm with you.
Okay so that's really unchanged from the expectation post 4Q? I would say it's modestly lower but we are also modestly a little bit more bullish on the Medical and what we are seeing out of RF.
Yes very good.
Okay thank you much.
Very nice quarter.
Thanks.
And we will go next to Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Sir? Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Joe.
So my first question I guess with the name change to Roper Technologies just maybe a broader question.
Any thoughts on larger scale portfolio divestitures? I know you did one during this quarter.
Clearly you are moving much more towards a software/SaaS-based model and so I'm just curious Brian whether that changes what you currently have within your portfolio today? No I don't think so.
I mean all our businesses when you look at our energy businesses or the industrial businesses they have over 50% gross margin.
So the economics of this business is similar to most of the technology company you would see that are not pure software.
Our software business has outperformed software companies our industrial business has outperformed industrial companies.
So as long as we get outperformance out of these things we think the market is incredibly smart and it has pretty idea about what things are worth and while we're always undervalued we think that it's very hard to ever get rid of anything we have here.
It would have to be a compelling reason and those certainly could exist in the future it really could.
But today we think we're perfectly positioned and I think this quarter sort of demonstrates that.
Okay that's helpful.
John maybe following up on your comment on energy with the start to the year down 5% on the organic growth side and the expectation to get to flat I guess two questions.
What's driving the confidence in the uptick in energy as the year progresses? And then secondly just within the margin profile this quarter I saw that your operating margins were down about 200 basis points.
I know part of that was the restructuring.
But what else really kind of drove the decline in operating margins on the energy business? Yeah so I will take the second question first.
If you look at the decremental leverage so revenue down 10% operating profit down 18% if you do the math on that it's about a 43% leverage.
So you pull the one-time expenses associated with restructuring out of that.
When you get down into the mid-30% range for the decremental leverage that's not at all different than what we would expect.
We actually think that's very impressive performance out of those businesses given that they start with 55% gross margin.
So they are real cost actions real belt-tightening that has to happen and that will happen and it has and will continue to happen in order to be able to hold that decremental leverage in the mid-30% to 40% range.
Now as far as going forward when you think about sequential improvements little bit throughout the year like I said it's really driven by the non-oil-and-gas portion.
So our things that are selling into whether it would be plastics or polymers or non-destructive testing other markets that are not oil and gas related which is about 40% of the segment that was down modestly in the first quarter.
We expect that to be up modestly as we go forward throughout the year.
And then the other piece is the timing associated with some of the project deliveries at CCC which most of those are for downstream and midstream applications more downstream frankly.
And those are things that we expect to come to fruition later in the year.
So those are the drivers for why we expect the minus 5% organic in the first quarter to be closer to flat throughout the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then just a clarification there.
The decremental average that you talked about organically that didnt include any pricing pressure in the quarter and is the expectation as the year progresses that price will continue to hold? For the specific areas that we play in that is the expectation and I wouldnt separate it out as pricing versus cost I would separate it out as gross margin.
So gross margin was actually flat in the quarter versus last year for Energy at 55.4% and we expect to be able to hold our gross margin very similar to what we had last year in this segment which on a full year basis was right at 58% and we see no reason that that wont be the case this year as well with the actions that have already been taken.
Okay great.
I mean one last question Brian on the free cash flow conversion that was really impressive this quarter.
I know that some of that must have also  the acquisitions must have buoyed some of the conversion but your free cash flow conversion has been moving up steadily with the acquisitions that you have done in Medical and Scientific Imaging.
The question I have is is the 130% conversion target that you  that we have used kind of like a long-term target is that the right target or are you continuing to move above that target as you progress over the long-term? Well I think the 130% is what we have said is a trailing 12-months actual with $851 million in free cash flow.
So our cashbacks isnt going to be moving up its going to be 1% to 1.5% of revenue and our operating cash flow is going to continue to escalate a little bit.
Its already best in class.
The conversion rate we always talk about it being expected to be above 120% over time so actually the 130% its kind of crept up above that.
The things that we have will continue to improve a little bit our legacy business actually just have been improving.
They frankly tripled their cash return on investment in the last decade which nobody recognizes and the acquisitions help.
But I dont think our conversion ratios are likely to change dramatically.
Theyre enormous and I just wish we get more people to talk about our real cash earnings instead of talking about the DEPS number not commenting enough about the non-cash intangible amortization stuff.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Our next question is from Jeff Sprague at Vertical Research.
Thank you good morning gentlemen.
Just a question around the Medical businesses Brian.
You know if I think about a lot of your businesses historically they have kind of been portfolio companies and have not particularly integrated.
But it seems like that is now starting to happen with some of these software deals and it obviously makes a lot of sense.
Its kind of dizzying to think about how many software systems a hospital might have and if you think about all these different things youre starting to put together.
I guess the nature of my question really is is there a significant opportunity to do that? Do you move to kind of a larger provider of software systems with kind of different modalities and things that youre selling out of a bundle or do you see these businesses actually remaining fairly separate maybe there is a few that overlap? Well thats a good and complicated question.
Its absolutely true that there is going to be more interaction between some of these niche businesses that are acquired that are smaller with the two big footprint businesses MHA and Sunquest than we would have had in the past.
If you think about Neptune we never added anything to it except they wanted to have this rugged mobile DAP business we rolled over on it [ph] and never really went anywhere.
In TransCores case we have made acquisitions that have been very strategic.
Several years ago we acquired this company called United Toll where United Toll has become the entire technology leadership position around the world on toll traffic with this Infinity Lane Systems very critical acquisition that we made and its kind of fully integrated and gets sold as a bundle.
When you think about MHA I don't think many things necessarily would be sold as a bundle.
SoftWriters can continue to be sold and MHA's product branding would continue to be sold theyre going to work in an integrated way with one another and in many cases some of these niche acquisitions will report to the MHA or Sunquest platform business.
So that's why we suggested that they were transformational in the way that Neptune and TransCore were transformational on three and four.
I think we are a little surprised if somebody would have asked us your next $900 million of deployment would be in one business or six we would have thought it would be one but they are so great and so good that we are happy to do those and I think there will be more smaller acquisitions that are closely correlated.
Now that said theyre still all going to be individual niche businesses.
We are not going to be the forward rush man to hospital administrator so a lot of different stuff you pull out of the back.
That makes sense.
And the three deals that you did in the quarter can you give us a sense of the annualized revenue run rate of those? I guess there was some impact in We think those were going to be up to maybe $100 million of revenue with about 40% EBITDA over the next 12 months.
Okay.
And also we had a huge tax benefit in these deals that are really significant.
And we see those tax benefits in your cash flow but not your reported tax rate going forward is that correct? That is absolutely correct.
So it's north of $100 million of gross tax benefits that we will recognize over the next 12 to 15 years.
So it is a reduction in our cash taxes over that time frame.
And then just one last follow-up looking at these working capital changes and thinking about John's answer maybe it was your answer Brian about the gross margins in medical what percent of your business now runs on negative working capital? Not enough but its certainly helpful.
We wouldn't have gotten from 14 plus percent to 5 without having several businesses that have negative working capital and most of the acquisitions that we are making now are going to come in with negative working capital.
Were going to get paid in advance for the work that they do not always but sometimes they get paid a month in advance sometimes they get paid three months in advance sometimes they get paid a year in advance on subscription.
Interesting.
So in terms of the negative working capital so more of the things that we have acquired or looking at are more on the subscription software so theyre SaaS businesses which generally don't run with quite as much negative working capital as a license software does because you have the maintenance that is almost always build a full year in advance whereas subscription software is going to be built either monthly or quarterly.
And so it's not as much around trying to become even more negative as it is continuing to grow those areas that have the high subscription revenue and wonderful balance sheet that comes along with that.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the question-and-answer session for this conference.
Id like to turn the program back over to Mr.
Humphrey for any additional or concluding remarks.
Sir? Thanks Laurie and thanks everyone for joining us with our first quarterly call as Roper Technologies.
We look forward to talking to you with our second quarterly call as Roper Technologies as we finish up the second quarter.
Thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen once again that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen the Roper Technologies' Second Quarter 2015 financial results conference call will now begin.
I'll now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Orlando and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss our second quarter results.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Soni Vice President and Controller and Rob Crisci Vice President of Planning and Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
Press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have slides to accompany today's call which are available through webcast and also available on our website at www.ropertech.com.
Please turn to Slide 2.
We'll begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call well be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Now if you please turn to Slide 3.
Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation in the appendix.
For the second quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted consists of purchase accounting adjustment to acquired deferred revenue and our recent software acquisitions including Data Innovations SHP SoftWriters Foodlink and Strata for about $2.5 million.
As a reminder this represents revenue that absent our acquisitions those businesses would have recognized.
And now if you please turn the slide Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
After his prepared remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John  We'll start off going through our second quarter enterprise financial results and then look at the detailed activity within the four segments and the outlook for the rest of 2015 and then questions and answers from the audience so next slide.
As you can see here a summary of the second quarter we achieved all time second quarter records for orders for revenue for net earnings for EBITDA both nominally and a percentage basis and cash flow and margins were really quite outstanding.
Revenue was up 1% to $892 million.
Organic was flat but the FX headwinds were 3% in the quarter.
We had 13% growth in medical and 4% in RF and we'll talk more about those two areas.
Sort of mid single digit organic growth going forward and then additional benefits from acquisitions.
We had declines in industrial of 9% and energy 12%.
A lot of that is foreign exchanges you'll see but our oil and gas arena was down a little over 20% in the second quarter which was about on par little bit worse than we had expected and we don't really see any improvement in that for the balance of the year.
It might get slightly worse.
Gross margins despite the end market headwinds were up 100 basis points and reached 60.1%.
Our operating margins were up 60 basis points to hit 28.5% which is truly outstanding margin improvement in this environment.
Net earnings were up 10% to $173 million and that's represented $1.70 and of course we cover -- it is always about $40 million of non-cash amortization in there.
Free cash flow was up 24% to $162 million.
So these really are record results despite the foreign exchange headwind and the end market difficulty.
Next slide; here we look at the quarter two income statement.
You can see book-to-bill was 0.99 and without it being in each of the segments it was sort of 101 to 0.98 or something.
So orders were quite consistent with revenue.
Revenue was as we said affected by 3% on FX little bit up 1% overall.
Gross profit up 100 basis point operating margin 60.
You can see an effect to benefit had that we had planned throughout the year on a state tax matter which has been resolved as we expected.
We thought it might have occurred at a later point in time.
It's impossible to know when it hit this quarter.
So it lowered out tax rate from the 30.4% of last year to 25.7% this year and that certainly helped the net earnings being up by 10%.
Next slide here we look at the continuing compounding nature of how we grow cash flow.
So in the second quarter our operating cash flow as $173 million which was a 23% increase over last year's second quarter results.
Our free cash flow was $162 million a 24% increase over last year and for the first half of the year now we've delivered $412 million in free cash flow which represents a little over 23% of revenue and gives us a cash conversion ratio of 126%.
And when you think about the compounding nature of us being able to reinvest our cash and transactions it gives us still more cash.
You can look at 2013 in the first half we had $311 million and just in the two year period we're up 39% and half one to $433 million.
So we still think that cash measurement is far in a way the most important thing for people to look at when you're looking at the quality of the company's performance.
Next slide our asset-like business model continues to improve.
Our working capital was a function of our second quarter annualized net sales at 4%.
Two years ago that number was 7.5% and people would consistently ask us how you could possibly keep it at 7.5% and we chose not to.
We got it better firstly cut it in half.
So very nice reductions in inventory from 6.3% of revenue two years ago to 5.5% now and that's at a time when there were some considerable destocking in the oil and gas arena which certainly didn't help us sort of inventories.
In receivables they dropped from 19.7% to 16.6% and at the beginning of the quarter given difficulties a lot of energy went into reinforcing our disciplined processes around receivables because as you know in periods like this you can have some sloppy activity around getting paid.
And then if we take our inventory at 5.5% receivables at 16.6% and we subtract the payables of 18.1% you can see our total net working capital there is 4%.
Next slide if we look at the overall financial position of the company our cash increased from a year ago at $679 million versus $565 million.
Our undrawn revolver and the cash together give us almost a $1.9 billion in powder.
The reality is we can easily increase that because of our debt ratios.
You can see our trailing 12 months EBITDA is now up to a $1.232 billion and while our gross debt to EBITDA is 2 or net debt EBITDA is only 1.5.
We have deployed $1 billion in acquisitions in the last 12 months and we have a very active pipeline now we did announce one acquisition we will talk about when we get to the RF Segment but there are others that were far along and working on.
Next slide here well discuss the individual nature of our segments.
So the next slide if we look at the four segments here you can see the second quarter revenue in the blue chart and the green chart being the second quarter EBITDA.
And so now you have really RF and medical representing little over 70% of the total EBITDA that Roper is generating and they do that at very high EBITDA margins.
Our energy EBITDA and industrial tech if you put the two together the $100 million of EBITDA and $331 million in revenue so even in a more difficult end market with FX pressures we created EBITDA margins in the second quarter of 30%.
The nice thing about the 70% EBITDA from RF and Medical is those businesses are continuing to grown mid single digits organically and they give us higher leverage on the next dollar of revenue than our energy and industrial businesses do.
Next slide we look specifically at energy systems.
It was down 12% on revenue versus last year's second quarter but five points of that was due to foreign exchange and seven points on organic.
Deleveraging here was very well managed.
You see the operating profit margin in the quarter was 26%.
Gross margins remained above 55% and we deleveraged at only about a 34% ratio.
So once again they've been able to take their variable cost structure immediately adjust it.
The oil and gas markets were weaker than we expected particularly in those areas directly related to fracking our debt business the diesel engine shut-off valve business was down 50% and when we get to industrial youll see Roper Pump had some difficult things as well.
The other markets some of which were industrial that we report in energy all were satisfactory generally flat a little bit of improvement in one place or another.
The business executed terrifically well in the segment in the quarter they took some additional cost actions about a $1 million in restructuring which is included in our results were not excluding it.
This demonstrates the benefit of having very few fixed assets.
So we never have to work around absorption issues like others do and we get a very quick payback on variable costs take outs.
We've cut about 150 employees in our oil and gas space between energy and a little bit in Roper and Cornell Pump.
For the second half of the year we dont really see any kind of forecast improvement in oil and gas markets.
This is kind of a mixed bag.
If you listen to various people I guess if we were going to say would it get better or worse wed be planning that they're getting worse and not better but we expect them to be pretty much the way they were in the second quarter.
We expect to get some modest growth in other served markets that these business have that are not in the oil and gas arena and we think that the FX headwinds are unfortunately going to continue to persists much as they did in the second quarter.
We think we'll have high single digit organic decline for the rest of the year but then gives us really easy comps for 2016.
Next slide if we look at industrial industrial continues to perform incredibly on a margin basis.
Their gross margins in the quarter were over 50%.
Our operating margins were over 28%.
They were down 9% on revenue but 5% of that is foreign exchange and the rest of it is virtually a fact that our Toronto project and Canada with Neptune is winding down and they did very little in the second quarter.
In fact it was down $8 million in the second quarter versus last year.
So the rest of the business actually performed fine.
It would have been flat to modestly up.
Our oil and gas markets again were weaker than expected.
Roper Pumps saw some destocking activity in their surface pumps.
So their revenue was down close to 80% but the realign business was up twice as much as it had been the year before.
So those products continue to be consumed in the ongoing activity of that technology that we've introduced.
Rental markets were slow controllers as it relates to the upstream oil and gas was of course not good at all.
Our Material Analysis business stores had just a very very fine quarter.
They were up more than double-digits organic growth.
On a constant currency basis it was up incredibly and still more than 10% even adjusted for currency.
As our Neptune project sort of it appears to us as virtually complete.
We're only being asked to do odds and ins now.
So that was a negative headwind of $8 million in the quarter.
The rest of Neptune fortunately was continuing to grow and it looks to us like must be continuing to gain share.
In the second half of the year we don't really see any improvements as we've said around oil and gas markets.
I don't think they get worse here.
Likely they get a little bit of favorable increase.
Roper accomplished a little slower than the rest of our businesses to react.
So we've now cut about 40 people in flow control where the end markets have required that.
So we think we'll get a little bit better deleverage performance out of them in the second half of the year than we got in the second quarter.
Our Material Analysis business showed no signs of their weakening in any way.
It's continuing to do really very well.
Neptune in continuing to grow in the U.S.
market.
The Toronto project headwind in the second half for us is going to be about $20 million.
It's about $30 million for the full year and that's the thing to happen.
So these projects there arent those big ones that happen very often and they're working on a few but the core U.S.
business will have positive growth this year.
So we think we'll have mid single digit organic decline for the segment.
Next slide carefully look at the RF business you'll see we had revenue of $256 million which represented organic growth of 6%.
Actually the organic growth would have been little better.
You can see in that topline FX is down 1% and divestiture is 1%.
You might remember in the first quarter we sold our Black Diamond rugged mobile business and that was a little over a $4 million drag on revenue in the second quarter for us.
We had terrific results in our toll and traffic business and growth continues to expand.
We got multiple projects for upgrades that are in quotation now.
We probably really never had a better forward-looking opportunity than we do today with toll and traffic.
The Riyadh traffic project started up in the second quarter and already has resulted in several change orders and extensions that we think will benefit us particularly in '16 and perhaps yet this year.
We had double-digit growth in our tag sales for tolling.
The software subscriber additions continue to grow nicely in our freight matching business.
We have three of those.
One in the East.
One in the West and one in Canada.
The strength in our RF product line businesses were excellent particularly pendants for Senior Care Submetering for apartment multifamily housing and the UK Water Application business along did well as a result as well.
For the second half we still have that little Black Diamond headwind in the second half.
It will be several million dollars if it doesnt repeat but on the other hand didn't contribute any positive income.
So it doesnt have any effect on that.
We've got backlog and proposal activity in toll and traffic as I said at all time high with lots of long term opportunities there.
We don't see any pullback in our subscriber growth and our software businesses whether they're licensed for SaaS and we acquired On Center Software which is in the Woodlands in Houston Texas.
Very nice business well managed by Cecilia Padilla.
It's really again a business that has higher EBITDA margins than Roper's base business.
It's been growing at very solid double-digit revenue but we actually think it's been underinvested and to support even faster growth and that business only just closed on Monday.
So we're just getting started talking with them about how to enhance their growth profile.
We think we'll get mid single digit organic growth for the segment at our end but total revenue including acquisitions would be a little better.
Next slide here if we look at Medical Solutions you can see once again you got a little story about us pruning businesses.
We got rid really exited our rugged mobile product line.
That's in addition to the Black Diamond rugged mobile business which was a little military app.
This was a $5 million drag in the second quarter and that's another $7 million drag for the balance of the year.
So right thing to do this was the time to do it.
It wasnt contributing any income.
The technology portion that we want we've embedded inside our m-tech business.
So that's really important for us.
Organic revenue shows up at 2% but if you adjust it for the rugged mobile discontinuance organic revenue would have been higher.
FX was a 3% headwind in the quarter for medical but overall you can see revenue grew at 13% even with those issues and operating profit was up 18% and operating margin that's not EBITDA operating margin was 36.6%.
We had very strong performance out of Managed Healthcare Associates.
They continue to gain share.
Of course they have very favorable market conditions as aging continues in the population but just terrific results.
Double-digit growth in our Medical Device Businesses Verathon was very strong Northern Digital very strong and our CIVCO multi-mobility business was very strong.
Sunquest recurring revenue growth was as expected was quite good but we did have lower license and service sales in the quarter because of the meaningful use pig through the python that occurred in 2014.
So sort of a hopeless comp but that will change pretty quickly as you'll see.
Q1 acquisitions all three of them the Strata business the SoftWriters business and the Data Innovations performed very well and in fact the three together were above expectations and I mentioned that we exited the rugged mobile product line final.
In the second half of the year you can see that we expect MHA to continue to benefit from the market conditions and their ability to execute against that and we see additional medical products out of Verathon as they launch several things in Europe that are new to the continent and Northern Digital expands in its sphere business.
The Scientific Imaging businesses is basically flat.
Sometimes they look worse than they are because they've had that rugged mobile business in it for quite a long time and for that long that gives us a little bit of headway for variable performance in the future.
We think we'll get mid single digit organic growth out of this segment but of course much higher total revenue growth and then Sunquest has got a very nice opportunity that mostly benefits us in 2016 but a lot of software module upgrades now that meaningfully used processes subside with hospitals the same people that were involved in those both at the hospital and at our level are able to look at enhanced growth as they do product upgrade software upgrades for various applications within the hospital.
Thanks a lot.
Here we get to the guidance nature of what we think for the balance of the year next slide.
For the full year we were at or establishing guidance at $6.61 to $6.75 or midpoint of $6.68.
Previously we were at $6.75 to $6.95 and the midpoint of $6.85 and we really decided to take that down because we thought we have organic growth of at least 3% but it looks to us like it's more like 1% to 2% because of the depth of how much the oil and gas upstream markets really come down.
We said at the beginning the Europe steam was about 5% of the business last year and about 14% for oil and gas in total.
Now oil and gas is down to 12% as you might expect as the rest of the business is curling and the upstream portion will continue to decline as a function of total revenue.
Well get mid single digit growth out of Medical and RF organically but we'll get additional revenue because of the acquisitions that we already have and others that are possible going to occur.
In oil and gas we think thats going to continue to be weak.
We think its going to look much like the second quarter.
So we dont see much of a recovery in any of those end markets.
Our tax rate for the year we said at the beginning there we thought it would be about 30.5%.
We still think it will be about 30.5%.
The discrete item that we had in the second quarter around state sales tax was something we expected to have and it was in our guidance for the full year but it did move forward in the second quarter.
Full year operating cash flow we're saying should be $925 million.
In addition to our net earnings we have about $160 million of non-cash amortization.
Our Q3 earnings which will be just purely the net earnings with debt numbers 153 to 157.
Pressures for the year that we have to keep overcoming that weve done are largely led by foreign exchange and then quite a bit from oil and gas there that Toronto headwind and then some modest changes in imaging and industrial.
Had a pretty strong June compared to April and May.
So were a little bit encouraged in that respect.
Next slide here if we look at the second quarter summary once again we have to really complement our operating people who acted very nimbly in terms of what was happening in the upstream oil and gas segment.
Their ability to change variable costs is always just world-class and really terrific execution.
In the meantime we wound up with record quarters and revenue with net earnings and EBITDA for the quarter.
And revenue certainly was hurt by the headwinds of FX but notwithstanding that we powered through in a very favorable way.
Acquisitions were up 4% and offset the headwinds and Medical and RF were up so much they offset the decline in industrial and energy which was led by that oil and gas problem.
Gross margins actually increased in the quarter which was pretty amazing.
If you're starting out at 59.1% and you can still improve gross margins in a quarter thats organically flat that says a lot about the quality of the operating people we have in place.
Our operating margins were up 28.5% and EBITDA margins at 33.9%.
Net earnings weve covered before.
Free cash flow up 24% in the quarter.
The first acquisition that we've announced that would have been in the quarter didn't get done and 25 July was on center and weve got an active pipeline and we would expect to close some additional transactions before the end of the year and in reflection we just see the quarter as being very pleased given the FX and selective end market difficulty in terms of how we performed.
So with that I think we're ready to open it up for questions John.
So Orlando well start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well now go to our question-and-answer portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Well take our first question from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I was hoping to get some additional color on the energy businesses broadly.
In the first quarter you were thinking the whole market that you address would be down 35% and -- but your businesses might be down 20% or little bit more that obviously has worsened.
So what are you assuming now for the balance of the year on the energy exposed? And then what are you thinking the market dose in those businesses as well.
So Deane the way we characterize that so we thought that the oil and gas market broadly I think we said maybe down 30%.
Its down at least that and probably a little bit more.
Its actually worse than what we expect.
When you rig counts particularly down 50% year-over-year thats worse than we what expect it and so we saw that really impact those businesses that are in the oil and gas market that have any exposure to upstream.
If we got something -- if I got something wrong what I got wrong was there is a little bit of follow-on effect to some more of the downstream and midstream markets a pullback on capital spending on their exposure on the upstream side.
And so what we're expecting as we go forward is really no improvement.
Even though we've seen little hints of improvement in the oil and gas market that's not what our guidance is based on.
At this point we're expecting it to remain flat to where it ended the quarter.
And just to clarify I know you've focused on the upstream exposure you just mentioned mid and downstream is that still the bulk of the exposure at 3% mid 6% downstream and what's the expectations on those businesses? Yes the exposure is as you described so about 5% upstream and 9% mid and downstream and what we're expecting there is for that to be down kind of in the mid single digits.
Got it.
And just last one While just to be able to clear in the second quarter because it's already down it's not 14% of our revenue it's more or the upstream was about 4% of our revenue and then mid to downstream was a little less than 8%.
So it's more like 12% on a go-forward basis.
Got it.
And just last one on the oil side the expectation that Roper Pumps might be able to outperform on the ability to gain share has that played out or is just the aftermarket on shell is It was down as spectacular.
They more than doubled their revenue on realign products in the second quarter which is what we were hoping.
So that was a huge bonus but what we got that we werent expecting the degree of is surface pump the revenue was down 79% and we had not expected people would shut that off entirely and they virtually -- orders were down 91%.
So what that is even though it is not a lot of stocking it just people werent going to use everything they had and end of life before they did other things.
So the good news about the use of realign facility is they performed as expected actually better than expected and it continues to gain share but it's not big enough to offset the core flow control piece it's down so much.
Understood.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Our next question comes from John Quealy with Canaccord Genuity.
Good morning.
Thanks very much.
First for on-center can you give us a little bit on the metrics multiple it's SaaS versus perpetual license a little bit there thanks? They have a lot of license and maintenance and they've introduced the SaaS model so people are shifting over some to the SaaS model but a lot of the things that they do have to do with bids and estimation and actual architectural moving of walls and things that's just phenomenal what their system is able to do.
That's a business that's going to be a little less than $30 million of revenue with a little less than 50% EBITDA and it's positive leverage going forward.
It's quite high and the growth rate is double-digit.
So you can figure it out from there.
Perfect.
Thanks.
And then the future acquisition pipeline can you talk about with oil being severely depressed have multiples come in thanks? I wouldn't say that we've been following the multiples for acquisitions in the oil space for quite some time.
It's been a decade since we've made any acquisition in that segment.
I think Dynisco was the last one we made and it was in 2006.
And despite whatever multiples might be doing in that space that's really not where our focus has been.
We continue to remain focused on higher technology areas things that have exposure to in the markets that are cyclical like medical and other areas where we have a niche software or network type of business that we're looking at and that continues to be the types of things that we're looking for or some type of proprietary technology that benefits an existing area.
That continues to be our focus area rather than trying to bottom feet in something like oil and gas.
And our next question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Good morning Scott.
Brian I am curious to hear kind of your view of the world the last time we had your energy in industrial business is down this much we were following into a pretty big recession not far after that do you look at this time as having risk profile or at least similar characteristics what you've seen in the past when the world was about ready to fall part or is this too isolated to just the commodity itself oil? No no no.
We're debating -- we could have gotten more granular in our remarks but just I think it's so instructive about how good our business model is if you go back and you look at how the segments were in the second quarter of '09 and compared to the second quarter of '09 to the second quarter of '08 and then you looked at the comparison of the second quarter of '15 to the second quarter of '17 to see kind of the rates of change you would be astonished at how much better all these are.
The thing that is amazing in the second quarter of '09 our industrial tech business which is largely Neptune and flow control it had $32.5 million of operating profit on a reported basis and that was on a $136 million of revenue.
So its margin it was 23.8% in OP at a time when people were concerned the world was ending.
This time this reduction our OP and industrial is $52.2 million not $32.5 and our revenue is $186 million not $136 million.
So we have now OP margins of 28% in industrial in the quarter versus 23.8% in the second quarter of '09 and it's nothing like the second quarter of '09 in terms of the rate of de-escalation.
Second quarter of '09 over '08 our sales in the flow control segment were down 25.5% OP was 31.7%.
There wasn't a lot of currency issues either.
This time our revenue is down 9% not 25% and our OP was down 13% not 32% and if you look at the energy segment the energy segment in the second quarter of '09 it had $23 million or OP our $105 in revenue.
So it had OP margins of 22%.
This time it's got $37.7 million in OP on $145 million in revenue.
So the margins are 26% up 400 basis points from the second quarter of '09.
The sales trend in '09 versus '08 was down 27% this time it's 12% and half of that is FX and OP was down 35% this time it's down 15%.
So entirely different and then it's always for us painful because people ask these reader cost questions about these two businesses which represent less than 30% of our EBITDA.
Roper let's go to medical.
Medical in the second quarter of '90 we had $12.4 million of OP on $76 million of revenue 16.3%.
This quarter medical had $109 million in OP eight times nine times the number on $302 million in revenue and it wasnt down it was up 12% on sales and it was up 16% on OP.
Our margin in medical was 36.1% versus last year's second quarter of 16.3%.
Our challenge is simply to continue to grow these things as well as we can.
In our RF segment in 2009 our second quarter had $39 million of OP on $187 million in revenue.
So our margin profile was 21.1%.
Today RF had $79.9 million double OP and it had $255.6 million in revenue.
So sales were up 4% they were really up more than organically and the OP was up dramatically.
So you're looking at margins of 31.3% versus 21.1%.
In total Roper in the second quarter when people thought the business was ending had $96 million of OP on $505 million in revenue 19%.
This quarter had $252 million in OP on $890 million in revenue $28.3 million.
So we were up 930 basis points quarter-over-quarter in the as reported GAAP OP number.
So yet there is a sharp reduction.
Yes we got rid of 150 people.
Yes the investment in that restructuring will turn cash positive in the fourth quarter and no we're not really worried about it.
Okay.
I think that's clear.
As a follow-up can you give us a sense of -- you just mentioned about restructuring that was going to be my follow-up question in terms of how much the quote restructuring impacted the quarter so we can get a sense of About a $1 million pre tax.
Okay.
And going forward is that number -- do you feel like you've done what you need to do or is there more to be done.
Absolutely I think we have done what we need to do.
We'll see a little bit more that will come out in the third quarter just because of notifications and a lag and how that works.
So there will be a few other people coming out in the third quarter but all total we think its going to be in neighborhood of about a 150 people out of 10 000.
So its not very material.
Fair enough.
Okay good luck guys.
Thank you.
Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS has our next question.
Good mornings guys.
Good mornings Shannon.
Hey on the industrial business so ex Toronto it was flattish even with the surface pumps down 79%.
Can you talk about a little bit more the other pieces there that grew in the quarter and whats driving that? Well the core thing was our Struers business in Denmark which had nearly on a constant currency basis it grew nearly 20% but it really was up sharply.
We had researchers in the Germany.
Struers does sell somewhat into the technology side of auto.
So thats pretty powerful for them at the moment.
And they dont really see any shortfall in any of that activity.
I think Asia is more modest and Europe is up.
Actually Europe in total for the company was surprisingly strong in the quarter.
On a as reported basis its a down a bit but the currency was down 20%.
So if you look at the costs of currency performance its pretty solid.
And in fact Shannon you're exactly correct if you exclude the Toronto project the industrial segment was about flat organic.
And so that also speaks to the earlier question about oh my gosh is this broadly going to impact all these end markets? Well no is the short answer to that and no because what were seeing is not anything like what we saw last time where the decline is really only focused on those businesses that have exposure to oil and gas end markets and the other end markets that we serve in these two segments still performed pretty well.
No thats helpful thanks and then on medical in the second half I know you had a kind of tough comp.
This quarter it was only up 2%.
You got mid single digits in the second half.
Anything in particular you mentioned a couple of things but anything in particular accelerating versus the 2Q rate? Acceleration is going to be around some new product introductions at Verathon and it just continued its share gains a little bit of the meaningful use upgrades.
A few more of those happened in the second quarter for Sunquest and happened throughout the rest of the year.
And so we actually expect the Sunquest be to get better in the second half than it was in the second quarter but that was largely as expected for the way the year was going to roll out.
And the software module upgrade you are talking about there as more of a '16 thing could that be a big number? Time will tell.
I don't think it will be -- rounded out when we get to the '16 guidance.
So people in the hospitals just have to understand how much energy they have to devote for the meaningful use requirement for the government and for doing that were not doing a lot of other things and most of them have that challenge behind them And so this is our organization so we dont have to spend as much time in that phase the implementation with them and we can turn our attention to demonstrating the immediate payback of upgrades to a wide variety of various things we offer.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Youre welcome.
We will now hear from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
So I recognize that energy is clearly a smaller piece of the puzzle today but just want to focus on it for a second.
I think last quarter you talked about some projects in compressor controls that you were looking at.
I am just curious whether this project just got deferred or whether there is some cancellations and I am also interested in hearing anything that you can tell us about the inventory levels in the channel and what youre seeing from a pricing standpoint? We really dont have any inventory levels in the channel.
If you look at the energy systems business the largest component of that is compressor controls and it's always build for a specific application for the firm oil that goes along with the software that we provide to people.
Its really a systems business.
The little bit of products and they're really related to valves that we have which are for these diesel engine shut offs and certainly that had just come to dramatic reduction of about 50%.
So there is a little bit of inventory that they got to work off but not a lot in pipeline because the fact we basically sells direct and a lot of these products and they have very fast turnaround.
So there is not a lot of -- there really arent channel partners out here or stocking and reselling stuff.
The only thing that we have that gets stocked are standard Neptune water heaters and thats through our proprietary distribution network and certainly no inventory problems there.
As far as CCC is concerned its really around slowness in people deciding what they're going to do.
So they havent lost any projects.
We havent any projects that are canceled.
There just things are relatively slow as you would expect they would be for people to make big capital decisions right now.
Okay.
Thats helpful and Brain any color on pricing? Well our gross margins were up a 100 basis points.
Gross margins and energy are 57%.
Our gross margins in industrial are 50%.
So I wouldn't say we have a lot of pricing problems.
Okay.
And so what are your booking into backlog still appeared at least comparable to what you booked previously.
So probably you're looking at read-across stuff from others and thats not what we do.
We have very very specific applications.
Not a lot of competition but Denmark it's all up.
We catch a cold.
And that's what's happened but doesnt affect our -- we're not in a competitive market place where were overly concerned about pricing.
And in a market like this thats end market driven it doesnt market what youre pricing is.
People arent going to buy more because the price is well run.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Ill get back in queue.
Well now hear from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Steve.
On the acquisition pipeline any sense of a change at all? Is the market gets a bit more volatile or some financial issues perhaps globally maybe some of these guys pulling back a little bit from a private equity perspective.
Any change on pricing broadly? They have so much new money that keeps coming from investors that they're at least not worried about pricing with other people's money.
I can assure that they're just as aggressive as they've ever been and you still have lots of forms.
If we look at the large banks like the JPMorgan getting told lets watch how much on putting on debt staples here.
Lets not get above five times and so forth.
Quick then there are all these other kind of people out here.
Pension funds from unions in Canada they got all kinds of people that are happy to supply all kinds of debt.
So we still see 6.5 times debt on anything thats really a good business.
So that drives up multiple.
So multiples are still high but on-center the perfect example of the kind of things that we do here you've got a very well run business and a very nice markets.
It's pretty niche oriented thing.
Doesnt lend itself to and Oracle or SAP coming in and trying to take it over.
Its a business that Management wants to stay with and drive the business and they want to have a home that will invest in them.
And we fit that better than private equity.
So that all of these things work to our favor and then nothing like that has changed the acquisitions that we have right now are all similar to those kind of things.
So we dont see that as a constraint.
Got you.
And then just one last question.
I think this is little more just like top down I was trying to kind of learn about how you guys manage these businesses since your operating model is pretty unique and a little more decentralized.
So when like am oil and gas issue or an issue like this pops up it happened a couple of years ago as well when you had the nuclear business that fell off.
Are those guys coming to you and saying late in the quarter obviously hey we're weaker than expected here's our plan and you say okay good plan go to it.
Is there any wrangling.
Is there any top down from you guys more of a discussion where you kind of push more aggressive actions down.
I wouldn't think that's kind of the way that you guys manage because you have such great operating people but I am just wondering how this kind of -- how this makes its way up the pipeline to you guys and then what you do if anything to kind of tweak that they're responding to end market like this that's obviously highly unique and kind of a surprise? That's a great question.
We have an enormous benefit here in that each month the second after the month ends we know what their orders and their revenue were and we as you remember we run this place on both economics and accounting because GAAP accounting gives you such distorted information about what's really happening with cash nature of the business.
So we know what the breakeven of the business is.
Going into a quarter means what the marginal contribution will be after they've covered that on a revenue basis.
So we immediately two days after a month ends have a very good idea about what's happening to their trend and we will talk to them at the end of that month.
Theyll provide us a quadrant feedback about what's hot in the business what's happening in terms of what they're winning or difficulty that they're having.
How the quantitative nature of the business is in the month and what they're concerned about and so that becomes more of a socratic discussion but we're going to encourage them to take the actions that they need to take but never harm the business.
So we always start out with do no harm and we've done it so much for so long it's just a cultural kind of thing.
Nobody would hide stuff here.
It's not like your typical multi-industry company that many of our senior leaders grew up and we've all had really bad quarter to make sure you paint the plan.
So that's not how it works here and people know that.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And next we'll hear from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Brian just a couple question around the RF Tech piece of the business really two things.
One is on the EBIT margin there the 31.3% is that again is that very influenced by the non-tolling businesses just in general is there a mix issue there that got the profitability that high? And then secondly on Currently the non-tolling business we have software businesses in there.
They're high margin and the tolling services side of activity has lower margin but the technology product side with the readers that we deploy and that it has to go along with are much higher margins.
So they come in with abundant margin that's quite good but more like the rest of our businesses than the software businesses which are higher.
So as we have higher software it's good but right at the moment you've got quite a large piece of our activity is in tolling.
So it has a big effect and they certainly\ are much more profitable today than they used to be.
Okay.
And then is the -- the deadline for this interoperability is 2016 and is that aside from Riyadh in the tolling business are we seeing that influence or have we seen it or should it accelerate when it comes to TransCore? The benefit that TransCore has is we have the best technology.
So we have readers that are capable of reading what are called multiple protocols.
So we can read a wide variety of things.
The people who are sitting in Chicago and the people on the East Coast are stuck with a proprietary very old technology there out of the Austrians.
And you would have to ask them how they feel about their future but we're heavily engaged all the time with people around interoperability and ways that we can facilitate them.
The higher degree of interoperability when we have the best protocol technologies to read all the different things that are already embedded should be favorable to us.
The other thing I would say on that Ric is we've also recently introduced it's in the last year I believe not only the multiple protocol reader that Brian talked about but also a multi-protocol tact.
So we're actually selling tags right now to real customers and that tag can be used all across the country no matter where the driver most of these are commercial applications right now where over-the-road vehicles trucks etcetera.
We want to be able to have that single tag that can go through all the pieces and we're at the leading forefront of the weekend of technology there.
We're fully faster than others but also the change out coming from government sometimes is slower than they're suggesting.
Understood.
Okay.
And then secondly on the Medical Solutions Business it looks like MHA had a fantastic quarter and so two questions there.
One is can you just give us a sense of I presume that your market your favorable market conditions comment as maybe perhaps around pricing can you give us a sense of what the double-digit growth that MHA maybe how much of that was pricing pass through? And then secondly CBS Healthcare is buying OmniCare and some of the OmniCare drugs I believe go through MHA the specialty Pharma and I was just curious is that an opportunity that acquisition or is that a potential threat to MHA going forward? We certainly don't see it as a threat.
OmniCare is not out biggest customer but just so people understand we get a percentage of things that happen in terms of the billions of dollars of stuff we're processing.
The revenue that we get is just a percentage of that.
So we don't raise prices in terms of that percentage that we're getting from somebody but if generic drugs for instance go up in price versus where they were before then we will get a benefit from that because the activity comes out at a higher price if you have formulary drugs that get converted to generic and the price goes down that's a decrement for us.
We have benefitted by generic Pharma pricing being higher in the last two years versus the way we modeled it at the time of the acquisition.
So that has been a benefit and then you see today what is doing Teva's doing with $40 billion transaction.
Generally the things that are going on in the marketplace are favorable to us.
Okay.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good morning.
And I think you just kind of got to some of the questions I might have asked but how are some of the RF growth strategies playing out and how should we think about the compounding opportunity as you're building out this installed base further? Well in the software businesses they have very high marginal contribution rate.
So as they grow you got more cash to reinvest in other acquisitions.
They really don't need to consume more cash inside them.
So that helps us.
TransCore situation in RF because it's a big piece of the segment is slightly just better managed today than it used to be -- used to be on their service side of stuff particularly almost civil engineering and the design of things at the beginning of roadway exits and what have you they would have cost plus contracts but they would have retention issues and I think today TransCore is about 10 times better as an operating company than it was when we acquired it.
And so they don't -- they get pretty decent margins out of that but big revenue growth out of them on the service side doesnt have the same margin contribution that all the rest of our RF businesses do.
And the other thing I would say there is that on the tolling traffic piece.
It's not the same type of compounding that is on the software side but because we execute so effectively because the TransCore guys execute they're able to win projects in adjacent areas.
Our execution around our software for the New York City traffic control system was the reason why we won the Riyadh project in addition to our proven ability to execute in the region with our toll solution for Dubai.
So those things don't always kind of have a liner relationship in terms of building on themselves but the larger we become there the more opportunities that we see.
Yes definitely noting a big difference in that business.
And then on -- you noted the challenges on working capital improvement in times of disruptive oil and gas markets and sloppy payments and such and very complimentary deployments employees there.
What are the key enablers there? Is there a lot of customer selectivity historically or tough collections practices? I would say that the primary thing is that the things that we provide customers rely upon.
And so we provide the discipline for our businesses so they have the ability to say no to people.
That's one of the benefits that we're able to provide for folks.
And because customers are reliant upon this specific technology or the solution that we're providing it's not something that they can just say look I am not going to hold payment.
You guys can't ship to me anymore.
That's too important to our customers.
So it's good execution in terms of the discipline but primarily it's because of the position that we have in the end of markets that we serve.
Got it thanks.
I would say that the other thing having worked in very large environments if you go into typical multi-industry and you ask somebody who is responsible for receivables you will get a different answer than you will get here because if you go and you ask somebody running one of our niche businesses which remember may only be $80 million in revenue who's responsible for receivables because he is going to say [ridge Betty] [ph] and she's been here this long and she knows that and so there's a focus level here that is just very helpful.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I think John with that we're going to Yes I think we've reached the end of our -- the end of our time.
So I want to thank everyone for your participation today and we look forward to talking to you again in three months.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
The Roper Technologies' Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call will now begin.
Today's call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Wes and thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss our third quarter results.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci Vice President of Planning and Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The Press release also includes replay information for today's call.
We have prepared slides to accompany today's call which are available through the web cast and also on our web site at www.ropertech.com.
So if you please turn to slide 2 we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of today's call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to today's call in the context of that information.
Next slide? Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation available on our web site.
For the third quarter the difference between GAAP and adjusted consists of purchase accounting adjustments.
One to acquire deferred revenue and our recent software acquisitions that totals $2.2 million.
In addition we have an inventory step-up expense for RF IDeas of $2 million.
As a reminder these adjustments represent -- absent our acquisitions those businesses would have been able to recognize their profitability and revenue.
Now if you please turn the slide Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and after his prepared remarks we will take questions from our participants.
Brian? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
So we start here with our Q3 enterprise highlights.
We had a record third quarter which we thought was significant given sort of issues associated with the end markets and foreign currency.
Our revenue actually was modestly up from last year at $886 million and our book-to-bill was 101 and above almost everywhere with the exception of RF which is of course project driven.
Growth was led by Medical which was up 12% in revenue and RF Technology which was up 6% in revenue.
The declines that we saw in industrial and energy were virtually exactly as we had modeled.
FX was about a 3% headwind in the quarter and that result was a bit of negative organic as you can see it was about 2% with those industrial and energy headwinds.
Gross margins were spectacular they were up 130 basis points to 60.7% over last year and even up sequentially from the second quarter.
EBITDA margins were up 80 basis points to 34.4 both records.
Net earnings were up 4% and our diluted earnings per share were $1.61 versus our guidance of $1.53 to $1.57.
Our free cash flow was $220 million which was up sharply from the second quarter's $162 million and the $220 million of free cash flow represents 137% conversion.
We deployed $435 million in three acquisitions RF Ideas Atlantic Health Partners and On Center which we have discussed earlier and we just completed the Aderant acquisition on Wednesday which was $675 million net of tax benefit acquisition we will talk more about this morning and today we are announcing two more transactions CliniSys and Atlas Medical.
So it was really an outstanding quarter and of course great capital deployment for us.
Next slide; if you look at the income statement we are sort of laughing because its the old story about the ducks on the pond and they are moving along nicely but underneath these are moving wildly.
Lots of activity but at the end of the day we are up $1 million but you got to know that that's in the face of oil and gas being down about 3% of our entire revenue and FX about 3% and of course the City of Toronto roll-up another one so we had to overcome quite a bit of headwinds and still produce positive results.
Our gross margin was up from 59.4 a year ago to 60.7 and it really demonstrates the quality of our businesses because even in these difficult markets they not only are holding our gross margins but oftentimes increasing them.
If you look at the operating margin it too shows incredible execution 27.9% a year ago and 28.7% this year up 80 basis points despite having quite a bit of M&amp;A expense we took in during the quarter for all this activity.
You can see that tax rate was 30.4 which was a little bit lower than last year's 31.3 but I'd remind you our second quarter it was only 25.7 so there was a $0.12 headwind relative to Q2 on the tax rate and the tax rate gives about $0.02 favorable in the quarter.
And then you can see the DEPS at $1.61.
The compounding of cash flow if there is any theme around here it would be that.
We are in base a compounder.
You can see our cash flow -- operating cash flow is going up from $579 million during the first three quarters of last year at $660 million now.
Operating cash flow conversion was 141%.
Our free cash flow conversion was 137% and while we always ask people to look at even though we don't report on a cash earnings per share basis if you take a look here at our revenue free cash flow you will see that 25% of our revenue turned into free cash flow in the quarter.
Our year-to-date free cash flow is up 15% over last year at $632 million and we still do think cash is the best measure relative to performance.
We continue to look at the balance sheet and our asset velocity.
You will see that we have improved another 160 basis points from the third quarter of 2014 through the third quarter of this year.
Everything is better inventory is down receivables are down payables are up and so the net effect as we go from 5.8% at the end of the third quarter last year to 4.2% now and our governance process just continues to drive the working capital focus for every one here throughout the unit.
Next slide; we look at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with very strong balance sheet.
We had $700 million in cash while its outside of the U.S.
of course an undrawn revolver giving us sort of cash and undrawn revolver capacity of about $1.6 billion and our gross net number you can see there is at about $2.8 billion.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA is about $1.239 billion that's not pro forma that's just the actual number pro forma would be higher of course with our acquisitions giving us a gross debt-to-EBITDA profile of about 2.3.
Our pipeline opportunities are still really quite good so we are going to continue to see acquisitions flowing here in 2016.
We are rapidly getting to the point where we are going to have $1 billion of cash flow very soon on an annual basis and of course we tend to reinvest that at about 1.3 or 1.5 times that cash flow.
So we still look forward to another $1.5 billion or so of investment opportunity next year.
The Aderant transaction of course is going to be around $695 million in terms of the cash cost of that so that will take up the rest of our revolver and as a result we have upsized the revolver from its $1.5 billion to $1.850 billion and the CliniSys transaction will be basically funded out of non-U.S.
cash so there is no new borrowing required.
So it gives us a very strong balance sheet.
Here we just have a placeholder before we start talking about our segment deal and the outlook.
Next slide; if you look at the performance of all four of the segments they continue to be just marvelous.
I mean here you are with these headwinds and currency challenges and everything else in energy and yet our EBITDA margins in the quarter were 33%.
Our Industrial Technology which is only about 10% effective by oil and gas still had 31% EBITDA margins while RF had 36% and Medical 45.
So all of these segments have just incredible margins and if you think about it from a historical perspective going back to look just to 2011 not very long ago our collective EBITDA is up about 580 basis points since the third quarter of 2011.
And also you want to remember when we report EBITDA almost all of our D&amp;A is really just non-cash amortization and unlike depreciation that non-cash amortization has no call on future capital spending.
Also you can see Medical and RF are still over two-thirds of our total EBITDA.
Next slide.
So we look at the smaller segment Energy Systems and Controls we went into the year saying that about 60% of that segment would be in oil and gas and that's actually going to be slightly less than that just due to the sales but notwithstanding that we had a lot of FX exposure in energy with a lot of non-U.S.
activity so FX was a negative 5% headwind in the quarter.
The oil and gas markets were about as weak as we expected in fact when you look back about how they performed versus how we model them there was literally no variance.
The other served markets were flat with a few modest exceptions that were up.
We had really terrific margin performance as every body executed very nimbly terrific deleverage performance and the operating margin is actually up 60 basis points from a year ago and I think notably its up 330 basis points from what we reported in the second quarter.
So we have gone from 26% OP margin to 29.3% sequentially on effectively the same revenue.
So that's quite an accomplishment and I think those -- everybody in this segment for the most part deserves a lot of credit for that.
When we look at it it's trending into Q4 what we would see is sort of the same level of weakness but some incremental improvement just because of some seasonal programs that tend to occur inside Energy.
But with Energy being less than one in every $7 of revenue it won't have a big effect for us.
We had strong growth in our nuclear test business on improving market conditions.
There is a good deal of activity that's emerging both in China and Korea based opportunity in the Middle East and startups again in Japan for their nuclear activity.
So that's going to be a material improvement for us in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
The cost actions that we took earlier this year you can see have already improved our margins here in the third quarter and we expect the margins to improve still a bit more into the fourth quarter of this year.
Next slide; the industrial technology segment which is about 10% oil and gas by the way a little less in this quarter it had a 4% hit on FX.
We also have in the industrial technology segment the City of Toronto roll off from Neptune which we said this year would be in the neighborhood of $40 million or about $8 million to $9 million a quarter and that's about what it was in this quarter.
So that's most of the organic issue.
Neptune on the other hand grew mid-single digits excluding the completion of the Toronto so we were pleased with that.
Our oil and gas markets were almost exactly as we expected them in here but the margins remain really strong when you think about the challenges that those folks had.
They could have done a little better job on deleveraging and we have talked to them about that and I think we will see better performance in that respect in the fourth quarter.
We continue to have growth in our Material Analysis businesses and they are holding up very well given their European and Asian exposure.
In the fourth quarter we have already announced as of October 2nd that we completed the divestiture of Abel Pumps; that was a business that we sold for 95 million.
It has very strong fourth quarter so the buyer would be benefited by that we had it projected in our guidance at about $14 million in revenue and about $0.03 a share of earnings which of course now goes away.
On the other hand we get 95 million and have already effectively reinvested that money in the acquisitions we have just made in higher margin businesses that don't require the assets that Abel was going to require to sustain its growth.
Oil and gas is still weak but growth in the other markets is pretty good and is offsetting for the most part the oil and gas weakness.
We do think in the fourth quarter we will have better margins with better leverage performance.
Next slide; we look here at RF Technology.
We were up as you can see 6% of revenue and up 10% in operating profit.
If you look at that operating margin at 30.3% up 120 basis points I want to remind us that the EBITDA margin in this segment is 35.7.
So we have a lot of non-cash amortization and the 35.7 number demonstrates just how powerful the cash earnings profile of the RF Technology segment is.
Organic revenue was up 4 FX was a 1% headwind the growth continued in our Infinity Lane Systems both in Florida and Texas and we have a number of quotations out so that looks very favorable as we go into next year.
We had quite reasonable subscriber editions in our various Freight Matching businesses that supported growth in the quarter and then we acquired RF IDeas in September and that business has historically grown at double digits and we certainly expect that that will be the case in the future; both Rick and Craig who are driving that business have been there a long time.
They have created an unbelievable value-added reseller network and terrific direct connectivity with OEMs.
Primarily the business provides proprietary card reading technology so we can think of it -- doing for the individual what Neptune reader technology does for a big collective entity.
Lots of identification and authenticity ID that they have -- a lot of it is for single sign-on things like printers.
There are literally hundreds and hundreds of applications and thousands of customers its quite a decent balance sheet as you might imagine as our deals are.
If we look to the fourth quarter the software business as we think will continue to grow at mid-single digits.
We will get great leverage out of them and terrific cash flow performance.
The backlog and proposal activity that we have at tolling traffic is pretty good.
We don't see any slowing in that arena and we will finally get done with a couple of projects which have been -- things that have been challenging to say the least that it will be behind us and that's really good news.
And then we will have very strong segment margin performance we think continuing led by our SaaS and application software businesses.
Last Wednesday we completed the acquisition of Aderant.
Aderant is really an incredible company if we turn the slide here we can look at a detailed exploration of Aderant.
In a sense its just a great business.
It has lots of complementary notes that have come to us from various admirers of Aderant and Chris Giglio's team is -- I think we have never had as many unsolicited inbound notes about what a great business this is and thank goodness its finally in the home of a public company that will continue to invest and there has been an amount of fear maybe unwarranted but nonetheless very real for law firms who I am sure wouldn't shock you that they tend to be somewhat conservative who were not too happy to see Aderant in the hands of private equity previously and it always makes people worry about whether they can depend on continued internal development and growth.
Aderant has a really end-to-end platform of mission critical software that primarily goes to law firms now but could be expanded to other professional services organizations.
It has 3 000 of the world's largest law firms and professional services organizations and they really do a full suite of activity all the way from time capturing and billing to docketing.
They are in Atlanta they have got a great software business also in Auckland New Zealand which we were very encouraged by.
We think they are going to generate over $125 million in revenue in 2016 and beyond and of course it is as always a high margin business.
If you look at our acquisition criteria on the right you will see it has got an excellent management team.
In fact we are retaining everyone.
So that's a checked box [ph] high recurring revenue yet you can check that box over 95% customer retention.
Strong cash flow characteristics asset life well once again negative working capital so people pay us in advance for work that we are going to eventually perform.
Very deep domain experience inside -- in terms of people who are accustomed and used to working with law firms and what their needs really are and it has multiple growth opportunities including opportunities to do additional acquisitions at Aderant which is one of the things that we have been so encouraged by these last three larger transactions in the form of Sunquest which you see us doing continual bolt-ons to and MHA which we continue to do and now Aderant which is the third largest acquisition that we have made will have a very strong forward opportunity to continue to add businesses to this very good platform.
So another great niche software business for us.
Next slide; if you look at Medical Solutions and we haven't really dropped the reference to scientific imaging.
I mean the reality is that its no longer very material; and in the quarter the scientific image business had about a 6% decline all of which really was our rugged mobile business which we have been just gradually winding down.
As you recall we sold the Black Diamond business.
That was reported in RF it had a both DAP and JLT and these things should be pretty well cycled through before the end of the year.
If it weren't for that scientific imaging would have been flat in the quarter.
You can see that the medical businesses grew organically by about 5% while total revenue was up 12% because of the acquisition content.
FX in the segment was 3% headwind.
We had continued growth at MHA with significant customer acquisitions and Mike Sicilian and his team were able to acquire Atlantic Healthcare Partners which is really a vaccine GPO but it gives us a new channel direct to physician offices.
It will contribute meaningfully to our EBITDA in 2016 and it is a terrific acquisition and so congratulations to Mike and Jason Connelly and others there.
Our recurring revenue increased at Sunquest which was a good sign.
We really do believe Sunquest is going to be positioned for a strong 2016 and everything that we have seen as we continue to do these acquisitions we will talk about the second suggests we are putting together quite impressive platform of opportunities over a long period of time at Sunquest.
Our medical devices business were quite stronger than by new product introductions and the execution around introducing those at both Verathon and Northern Digital those certainly outperforming the rest of our medical product businesses.
Our recent acquisitions that we have done this year all of which are performing above our internal plans for how they would do.
We signed an agreement just sort of virtually within the last couple of days to acquire CliniSys Group U.K.
its a leading provider of hospital laboratory software and so just think about it basically as being the Sunquest of Europe.
It has sort of an elongated customary merger control review process that will happen in the U.K.
and Europe.
We expect that we should be able to get that all closed out and it ought to be inside our reporting entity by the -- maybe the end of January or certainly early in 2016.
We invested 170 million in that business but all CliniSys will be paid for from our non-U.S.
cash.
In the fourth quarter we think we will continue to have kind of like mid-single digit organic growth in the medical businesses.
But we think those margins will continue as incredible as they are today; and once again you will look at the op margin where we reported 36.6 but remember that the EBITDA margin is 45%.
So lots of non-cash detractors on the op margin can confuse people about how great and powerful these businesses are on a cash earnings basis.
We continue to have outstanding margin and cash flow performance in the fourth quarter.
Our Atlas Medical acquisition which literally we finished yesterday will also expand our laboratory connectivity.
This is really an amazing business that has been developed by founder Rob Atlas who is extremely well known in the hospital arena and Rob will be joining the Sunquest team.
Atlas Medical whose business will really be a bolt-on for Sunquest but it provides a support mechanism to both Sunquest and Data Innovations.
Connectivity Solutions are basically thinking about the lab to the physician outreach that a hospital would have and then within the hospital the concept of lab-to-lab communication where oftentimes people can't see the data they want it results in unnecessary additional tests.
We like the whole concept of coordinated diagnostics inside the hospital.
We really believe that this gives us a pretty eminent edge over what other people do in this category and over time you will hear us talk more and more about Sunquest and Atlas as a combination.
Next slide; here we will look at the guidance for the year.
Next slide; we updated our guidance -- actually raised the guidance for the full year to $6.69 to $6.75.
Previously it was $6.61 to $6.75 so this moves the midpoint up from $6.68 to $6.72 so its a $0.04 a share increase.
But remember this is despite Abel leaving and Abel will cost us $0.03 maybe $0.04 during that.
So if we had not sold Abel we would have raised the high end a little more but we have to absorb that offset.
And again when you look at the cash conversion this third quarter it was 137% cash conversion for the year certainly shouldn't exceed 130% so the DEPS number is one thing but the cash performance is quite much more important.
We also raised our operating cash flow target to between $9.25 to $9.40 for the full year and that's another projected increase from what we have suggested in the past and CapEx is not running very high this year less than $40 million so its going to promote a lot of free cash flow.
Next slide; so we go to the summary here for the third quarter really a record quarter despite the headwind.
So not sure we could have expected to do as well as we did but we are quite pleased with the performance.
Book-to-bill at 1.01 is a good sign for the fourth quarter and gross margins reaching 50.7.
I went back to look at where we were in the third quarter in 2011 and we were at 53.7% gross margin so we have added 700 basis points to our gross margins in the last four years here in the third quarter.
Our operating margin is 28.7% and our EBITDA margin is 34.4; and if you go back to the third quarter of 2011 you will see EBITDA was about 28.6 and now its 34.4.
Our DEPS $1.61 exceeded our guidance.
Free cash flow 25% of our revenue and 137% conversion.
Full year DEPS raised and cash flow guidance raised; we deployed $435 million in three terrific acquisitions and then just as we began this quarter we acquired Aderant our third largest transaction in our history and yesterday signed an agreement to acquire Atlas Medical.
So we were able to confirm everything we thought that would happen in the fourth quarter and really believe we are very well positioned to have a record 2016 but we won't provide guidance around that until we report earnings in January.
So with that John I think we are ready for opening up to questions.
So Wes I think we are ready for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions].
We will take our first question from Shannon O'Callaghan at UBS.
Good morning guys.
Hey good morning Shannon.
Hey Brian as you further expand into software right we are in medical now we are adding legal and you mentioned the ability to go into potentially other professional services.
I mean is there any eventual barrier where a certain industry has some level of domain expertise where you guys couldn't acquire and succeed with the software business like this in that industry? Maybe just a little understanding of why can you succeed in legal or why could you take this to other areas and is there ultimately somewhere you couldn't go? Well I think that we are always funded by these niche transactions right so we don't want to go into some situation where people are going to write software off of our software.
We are really providing some kind of service to somebody we happen to be using software to achieve the benefit of what it is.
But you have to have domain experience.
So our guys at the core are software people they are domain experts who use software to create a solution for somebody that's efficient and effective for them.
So as long as we continue to see things that are in those spaces we will be able to make the acquisitions.
Couple of sessions ago I said when we did Sunquest and we did MHA they were really-really as important for the future of Roper Technologies as Neptune and Transcore back in 2003 and 2004 for Roper Industries.
Sunquest and MHA gives us world class leadership organizations that allow us to do bolt-on acquisitions and things that are complementary to them and most of what we have done this year has something to do with one or the other of those organizations.
Aderant is similarly positioned to do that.
Its a great organization.
You can go back and look at Chris Giglio he did a YouTube video on the day of the acquisition that was just brilliant and you can see how he is expressing the fact that now being owned by a public company his customers could have confidence that they will get the continued investment for his program to continue to become the most important player in that area.
So we are always kind of agnostic about what it is the business does.
So we don't really have a boundary around the business as long as it hits the excellent magic high recurring revenue great cash flow prefer to have few if any assets and domain experience then we are pretty wide open on where we would deploy our capital.
Now we also have some internal things we always want to be able to add value to the business in some meaningful way that we can understand and we want to think that people working our government system will perform better than they were when they weren't in it.
And if we think in our diligence process that neither of those would happen then we would abandon the deal.
Okay.
That helps.
And then on some of the pressure against the -- or the performances amidst the oil and gas pressure you talked about the sequential margin improvement that you got in energy but a little less happy with the margin performance in industrial tech in the quarter.
Can you just talk about the differences in terms of -- maybe just basic blocking and tackling of costs out or maybe just a little bit more on what drove that and what you expect to improve in the fourth quarter? Well I think that what we got out of deleveraging and energy was more traditional in the sort of 30-35 38% type of stuff that we saw in most of the businesses.
We didn't think that upstream guys in oil and gas and industrial which by the way was less than 10% of our revenue.
They delevered it more than 50% which we though was unacceptable and we have shared that with them [ph].
So they were moving pretty quickly but they haven't been as used to that kind of change because they have been driven really by the fracking opportunity and there really wasn't any cyclical uptick -- it always has gone up they have never really gone back for a long period of time and they just didn't do quite as good a job as quickly as the energy people did.
But that problems are behind us.
Okay.
Great thanks guys.
You have the City of Toronto cycling through so that's an $8 million or $9 million negative income thing which isn't useful.
Right.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks guys.
We will take the next question from Deane Dray at RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Deane.
I'd like to stay on the oil side of the business for a moment and you mentioned that in the energy segment you were expecting to see some cost savings benefits flow through as well as fourth quarter seeing some seasonal benefits.
I was hoping you could provide some color there? Well usually you get -- typically our Petroleum Analyzer business will get and [indiscernible].
They get fourth quarter seasonal activity that is oftentimes MRO that's left over.
These things we have are really not capital sales and so they have every year even -- I think now every year they have an increase in the fourth quarter.
So that will just give us a little bit more revenue in Q4 than we enjoyed in Q3 and with that get a little bit better margin.
They have been very nimble in responding I don't know John if you want to add anything to that? Yeah I mean what I would tell you is that we are expecting some sequential increase from Q3 to Q4.
Not as much as what we have seen in the past in terms of the dollar increase.
If you look back at kind of how this segment has performed in 2012 and 2013 and 2014 well we tried to add a nice jump up there.
We are expecting some but not as much as in the past just because of the other headwinds that are present in new oil and gas markets.
And how about the cost savings benefits? The cost savings benefit will continue to just manifest itself most of the costs out would happen in the first half.
And so that that flowthrough just continues in the fourth quarter against last year cost levels.
I do think from a read-across [ph] basis everybody believes there [indiscernible] of what they are seeing from a revenue viewpoint.
We went through our quarterly review process and people certainly didn't have any optimism for the fourth quarter but they all though things should pretty well bottomed out and they were feeling better about Q4 than they did in Q3 and we don't yet have their forecast for 2016 but in the verbal discussions people feel a little bit better.
So the good news for us is its getting to be such a small portion of the enterprise that it doesn't have much effect as you can see here.
Because upstream is probably down 35% this year and even with that kind of drag we had record revenue and record cash and earnings performance in the quarter.
Thanks.
And just to follow-up on Aderant did you disclose what the growth has been for Aderant and the renewal rates? The renewal -- we said retention was about 95%.
I don't think we have said a lot about growth.
But its going through a little bit of a growth spur as its gaining share against its primary competitor who has got some issues.
They will have to deal with terms of the software that supports their system historically.
And also remember that this is another business that has a substantial install base so you get a lot of maintenance revenue right.
So this is not a SaaS business.
They have a small SaaS offering which we think has very interesting prospects.
But the majority of this business is a traditional license and maintenance model and so when you talk about what's the growth rate -- the underlying growth rate of the ongoing maintenance which is kind of in the low single digit range but then you have the upside opportunity as well as what they are capturing today which is new share and new applications which is growing much faster than that.
So you blend it all together and it has a similar to Sunquest kind of in the mid to high single digit is what we expect of this business going forward.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Scott Davis at Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
I have been following your stock for a long time.
I don't think I remember a time period where you have had such a flurry of deals and pretty attractive stuff on the surface at least.
But talk to us a little bit about what would you attribute that to? I mean sometimes maybe these things work out in the timing.
But is there an acceleration on part of sponsors to try to pare some assets off their books at this time and you're benefiting from that? I think that might be the case more so in the next 18 months than it has been in the last 18 months.
There has been a lot of stuff for sale but there is always a lot of stuff in the pipeline.
But I do think you are starting to see the signs of people getting worried about -- to get any kind of uptick on the risk premium around CCC credits and financing.
People are going to start to worry about their exit multiples versus what their entrance multiples order.
So I think everybody is wondering about what their exit time ought to be if it should be moved up.
But boy the guys that we work with and talk to all the time I mean they are still deploying capital like crazy.
So you see them making big bets and the launch of [indiscernible] very high trailing multiples at least for what they hope will be able to grow into.
So I don't think that there was anything particularly unusual I think that we have owned Sunquest long enough that we have a real purposeful strategy about what we are building out there that's just starting to be able to be seen.
We are still going to tell everybody exactly what we are doing.
But when you look back and you see what we have done with data acquisitions and with strategic healthcare partners for MHA and Atlantic Healthcare.
For MHa and what we are doing here with CliniSys and what we are doing with Atlas a couple of years from now I think people will -- we won't ever get another question about what ring counts look like.
Understood.
And just to follow-up -- and I understand that's business as well.
But you talked about CliniSys being kind of the Sunquest of Europe.
I mean is the product offering comparable enough that you could consider merging these two entities or having commonality in management or any kind of synergies that would be not traditional or less traditional for Roper? Well the problem of course is the U.K.
health system right.
So Germany is different U.K.
is different.
So there are regionally specific regulated industries that require different kinds of performance criteria versus what Sunquest faces in the U.S.
There certainly will be synergies in the sense of improving our software development capability for those entities and that's good.
I can see John's anxious to add too.
Yeah I don't think there is any -- in fact I know there is no plan to merge those things.
What we do see is the opportunity for these businesses to work together to bring new solutions to the market.
There are kind of similar unmet needs and opportunities to do things whether its around blood bank or other solutions.
So there may be opportunities for the two businesses to work together in the future.
But as far as the core offering its very-very niche and kind of purpose built and we don't expect those things to have any overlap.
Fair enough.
Thanks good luck guys.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Joe Ritchie at Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Joe.
So you guys operated really well this quarter despite organic growth turning negative and I guess I am just trying to parse out some of the comments for 4Q and beyond.
Do you guys see the third quarter as a trough in your organic growth? And as you kind of think about 2016 clearly there are some headwinds this year with energy the Toronto Project tough software comps and Sunquest.
I am just trying to get a sense for just general comments across your portfolio on your organic growth in 2016? Well I think 2016 is going to be a lot easier for us because the headwinds that we faced this year should all subside.
So I don't think that oil and gas would be worse in 2016 in a material way than it has been in 2015.
Its likely to be stable or perhaps up a little bit on some of the areas.
I think our fourth quarter will be kind of similar to the third quarter but 2016 is a different story.
So we are going to enjoy some of the acquisitions that we have made will become organic in 2016 and that always helps.
So just about everything is favorable.
In 2016 you get rid of the City of Toronto drag which to bear we get rid of the Rugged Mobile kind of winding that has been down.
We do get rid of a lot of drags.
And so organic these will be more favorable next year.
Okay.
That's helpful Brian.
And maybe on my follow-up it seems like this year you have been a little bit more apt to take a look at your portfolio little bit closer with the divestitures of both Black Diamond and Abel.
I am just curious whether you guys are -- as you think over the next couple of years will there be continued portfolio pruning as you continue to become more of a software type entity? Well we still love our cash generation businesses out there.
They don't have any amortization.
I don't know maybe one of these days we are going to report it on our cash earnings.
It would be a different story.
But man the EPS we get out of our historical business is pretty spectacular 33% EBITDA and fluid handling.
Its hard to bind something with 33% EBITDA right.
So these businesses are really great.
We think they are valued pretty highly inside our overall portfolio.
I think people approach us -- I mean our phone rang off the hook when people saw -- we sold Abel everybody in the world is calling us up about hey can we buy your pump businesses can we buy your energy business can we do this can we do that? And the answer is no.
I mean what are you talking about you guys traded at a multiple that's lower than the imputed value on our business.
And if we are going to do it then we are going to do it for shareholders so that shareholders get a premium to what they would be.
So I do think there are creative things that people kind approach us on and I was willing to listen to various things but we like the businesses that we own today for the most part.
Thanks Brian.
Helpful color.
We will take the next question from Christopher Glynn at Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I will resist the temptation to cease this leading [ph] opportunity to ask about rate comps [ph].
Speaking with energy you did have a really dramatic sequential improvement on flat revenues with margin there so just wonder if there are any trade-offs with that kind of material really bring up some margin upside? And then how to think about what that says about the leverage or the margin performance as those markets actually return? All good news.
As they -- let us know when they are going to return by the way we are not aware of that yet Chris.
But if they do come back we will be printing money there.
There is no question about that.
We are already printing money in a hideous market.
So yeah that's all good news.
But there is a little bit of a loss [indiscernible] numbers.
The difference I think if you look at the op and energy in the second quarter and the op and the energy in the third quarter we are up about $4 million in operating profit quarter-over-quarter on the same revenue.
So you get sort of a nice kick there.
And also Chris -- so structural.
So the structural piece of these businesses is the fact that they have a highly variable cost structure.
So we don't have a lot of fixed costs that are hard and expensive and time consuming to take out and then also hard and expensive and time consuming to put back in.
So these are primarily people related expenses and so I don't expect that to be structural from that standpoint.
Its flexible and that's the important thing for those businesses and to make sure that they are able to flex very quickly with volume decreases but also be able to capture opportunities when volume comes back.
Makes sense.
Great.
Thanks.
We will get next to Jeffrey Sprague at Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey good morning Jeff.
I just wanted to circle back to kind of the deal activity again.
A lot of moving pieces there.
First just to help us get our head around everything? Can you just kind of square us up? I am sure you don't want to go through every deal individually but collectively the $1.7 billion you're spending here in 2015 kind of what the combined EBITDA multiple might be or the run rate revenues from this basket of deals? Well we get some tax benefits in there but on balance I'd say our purchase price for these things has been around 11 times first year EBITDA.
So you can kind of use that as a guidepost into what we would expect for next year.
Net of revenue? In terms of revenue for our first 12 months of ownership for all of that right? So the first 12 months for Strata and SoftWriters and Data Innovations is largely in our numbers this year.
But when we add all of that up we get to something in the $375 million range.
Right.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then just a -- actually just a quick modeling question John has the tax rate got a downward bias here is that part of the guidance construct in the Q4? Not really.
Probably 31% or something like that into the fourth quarter right? 31.5.
But its hard to feel you have a downward bias when you pay our tax rates.
We are not in aversion we just don't have any kind of things that are going on around the world.
So our tax rate pretty much for the year if you look back historically its going to be around 29% to 30% most of the time.
Right.
And then just one other one Brian I totally get your point on the industrial businesses right they get a Roper multiple instead of some other multiple which makes it difficult to exit and you got a lot of cash you can deploy.
But can you just give us a little bit of additional color on why Abel and why that might be different from the others and how you will be looking at this thing; because I am sure you do have an open mind around value over time.
What's just kind of the overall thought process there? So Abel is really unique.
In terms of the pumping technology it uses it is unrelated to what we do at Cornell and its unrelated to what we do at Roper which are our other two pump businesses.
So it really offers us no surges of any kind from a technological development viewpoint.
The PP&amp;E that's used to generate an Abel pump these are really large.
They are more like Flowserve or Dresser-Rand or something like that or just totally -- typically in large test facilities mostly witness tests.
A lot of their growth which should be quite good will be in India related to power generation.
So the end markets that they serve we are going to require additional capital deployment for us to continue to grow those businesses.
And it wasn't the place we felt like we should invest therefore we really felt that that would be better if we cut this loose to somebody who is seeing it as a growth platform which it can become.
I think its a good acquisition for the people that bought it and I think it will perform quite well for them.
But we are able to get out if it at 95 million and would be hard pressed to say sort of 12 times trailing number was something we should turn down.
All right.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Richard Eastman at Robert W.
Baird.
Yes.
Good morning Brian John Rob.
Hey good morning.
Brian a quick question.
TransCore has had some really nice wins recently in Massachusetts Central Florida.
There has also been some commentary about Saudi Arabia and the Riyadh maybe dialing down the metro spend in Riyadh.
And I am just curious when you sit through all that and put the wins there with potential -- a little bit of softness in Riyadh how does that business look over the next 12 months? Is the backlog support -- comfortably support a mid-single digit growth rate for TransCore? Yeah.
I think so.
I mean its cyclical up and down in terms of projects its not sort of cyclical with the economy but we are certainly not seeing any slowness.
In Riyadh they are expanding the project.
Somebody said to me I think this morning oh my goodness Saudi Arabia they need to borrow money they want a bit of cash they can't do any of that.
I mean wow people do react on a lot of various things.
I do not think Saudi Arabia is going out of business in the next month and a half and I don't think Riyadh is either.
So this is a multiyear contract and once you have the work deployed people have to have the backroom operations they can't do it on their own.
So there is a lot of different things that happen.
Now this is mostly a traffic translink project with a lot of upfront opportunity that's more civil engineering and as that gets behind us then actually margins will improve.
Okay.
And then again with the wins it seems like most of that is incremental in new wins so you have to feel pretty comfortable about the business then? We have ample opportunities to go through with TransCore and the rest of our businesses to see what the next 12 months or the next three years looks like and we will be able to share that totality of that picture at the fourth quarter when we initiate guidance for 2016.
So I mean just taking out one piece yeah we feel very good about that.
But wait for the whole picture.
Okay.
And then can I also just ask you internally with Atlantic and mHA and all the conversations going on around generic pricing on the drug side what have been the internal discussions there on the price component at those two GPOs? It sounds like you had some new customer wins here which is really a positive but any internal discussions around this generic pricing issue and the impact positive or negative it could have on those two businesses? I mean so far it has been modestly positive.
But I would say that we are not in those conversations.
We don't set prices we help our members negotiate the best pricing and the best supply chain solutions that they can obtain.
So it has been modestly helpful but not by any stretch is it the largest piece of the MHA growth that we have experienced.
Okay.
Nice work and congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
We will take the next question from Joe Giordano at Cowen.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
I had a question on CliniSys and maybe if you can help frame that market generally.
You have your positioning in Sunquest kind of niche in the United States and then CliniSys you said is the Sunquest of Europe type property.
Maybe some color on how many -- if we look globally what does this market look like how many major players of that kind of size really are there? Here is a situation we just signed the agreement.
When we are filing-- a lot of material like either we do here with HSR so that's all going into customary merger control reviews.
So we have agreed with the seller that we are not going to provide any information until after the deal closes.
So I can't tell you a lot about that.
But the end markets are quite similar to what happens here in the United States the hospitals.
While people think that there is universal healthcare in the U.K.
there is actually a wide variety of potential providers that side that system and CliniSys allows these people to have a uniform operated platform around all the things that go on lapse.
And we will be able to make them be more efficient for the healthcare system because they will now get access to our Data Innovations technology and they will get access to some of the ways we do things at Sunquest.
So we think from an end user viewpoint the owner who has built this very good business in the U.K.
and recently acquired business similar to it -- and Germany will benefit from providing additional services and clarity to the people that use hoar [ph] system to try it in laboratories.
So we are bullish about that but that's about as far as I can go Joe.
Fair enough.
You mentioned a slight strength in the materials analysis and industrial tech and I am just trying to get a sense of how much is that market dynamic or how much is that unique to your businesses there? Maybe we can touch on that for a second? Its probably about 50-50.
As you see global industrial production whether that's around steel or automobile so that is -- Joe we have got a little bit of positive tailwind.
But you also have a lot of new and upgraded products and the expansion of Struers' global reach and so it puts them in a very good position to continue to take some share.
And we also have a very good line of other things not just on the material analysis their traditional area but also some new things around hardness testing and some things they are introducing there that has helped them.
So its a little bit of both little bit of market little bit of self-help.
Great.
And then just lastly one quick housekeeping one; are you guys having any impact of Aderant in the fourth quarter guidance that you put up? Sure.
Like on an adjusted level you have adjusted accretion in there? Yes.
I mean it will help us out by a couple of pennies.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
You're welcome.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all for joining us this morning and we look forward to talking to you again in late January.
And that concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Roper Technologies Fourth Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
Todays call is begin recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Humphrey Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Diana.
And thank you all for joining us this morning as we discuss our fourth quarter financial results.
Joining me this morning is Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul Soni Vice President and Controller; and Rob Crisci Vice President of Planning and Investor Relations.
Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
The press release also includes replay information for todays call.
We have prepared slides to accompany todays call which are available through the webcast and also on our website.
Now if you turn to slide two we begin with our Safe Harbor statement.
During the course of todays call we will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page and as further detailed in our SEC filings.
You should listen to todays call in the context of that information.
Next slide: Today we will be discussing our income statement results for the quarter primarily on an adjusted non-GAAP basis.
A full reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted measures is in our press release this morning and also included as a part of this presentation on our website.
For the fourth quarter the difference between our GAAP results and adjusted results consists of three items: First we completed the divestiture of Abel Pumps during the fourth quarter resulting in a pre-tax book gain of $70.9 million; this was partially offset by an impairment charge of $9.5 million relating to an imaging investment we made in 2007.
Second a $4 million purchase accounting adjustment to acquire deferred revenue relating to software acquisitions made in 2015.
This represents revenue that those companies would have recognized if not for our acquisition.
Finally we have a $2.6 million inventory step-up expense relating to the acquisition of RF Ideas.
Now if you please turn to slide four Ill turn the call over to Brian Jellison Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
And after his remarks we will take questions from our telephone participants.
Brian? Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
So well start off here with our Q4 results.
They were flat to last year; we talk a little bit about that.
At $948 million its exactly the same number as last year but there is a lot of activity to get you there.
We had another 2 points of FX headwind in the quarter and then the acquisitions net of the Abel divestiture offset the organic shortfall in Energy primarily.
The industrial and energy markets declined in the fourth quarter and really had less seasonal adjustment favorably in the fourth quarter than normally and well talk about that when we get to that segment.
But we had very strong growth in Medical and the RF segments.
Our gross margins continued to escalate; they were up 190 basis points in the quarter to 61.8%.
Our EBITDA margin also hit 35.9% thats the EBITDA margin not the gross margin.
And EBITDA was up another 2% to $341 million which is sort of an annualized run rate of $1 364 million.
Our free cash flow was up to $261 million and is 140% cash conversion.
And we also issued 5 and 10-year bond which totaled $900 million in the month of December and deployed over $700 million in the quarter and some very attractive acquisitions.
So we enjoyed both good execution in the quarter and terrific disciplined capital deployment.
Next slide: If we look at the income statement in the quarter you can see that while the orders and the revenue were exactly the same as a year ago no two businesses would have been the same.
So this was a case of watching the ducks on the pond but a whole lot of paddling going on underneath it.
The book-to- bill at 0.98 is actually pretty good for a fourth quarter.
Just to give you some sense of history in 2011 our book-to- bill in the fourth quarter was 0.94; in 2012 it was 0.95; and in 2013 it was a flat 1 or 1.01; and 14 was 0.98; and this year was 0.98.
So from a historical perspective its about what we would expect to see.
Our gross profit as we said was up 59.9% to 61.8%.
And operating income the margin was 30.1% and that absorbed 70 basis points of higher non-cash amortizations as acquisitions came in.
The interest expense was up $5 million due to the bond issuance and a little bit more drawn at the revolver during the quarter.
Net earnings were down 1% from a $187 million to $186 million which you could see just from the interest.
Next slide: Here we shift into the full year enterprise results so next slide.
On the enterprise results the whole point of the year really was our ability to demonstrate nimble execution in the field and then deploy capital in really a top acquisition market with great transactions.
So if you look at the records everything once again was a record.
We had the most orders the highest revenue the best margins the highest net earnings and the best EBITDA and cash flow of any year in our history.
The growth was led by Medical and RF.
We had continued margin improvement through the year.
The gross margin was up a 140 basis points on a year to 60.7 and the operating margin was up 80 basis points to 29% operating profit margin and of course EBITDA was higher.
A very strong cash flow we were up 11% in cash flow for the year and that was 26% of revenue.
Our cash flow was also up 11%.
And our cash conversion on a free cash flow basis was 132%.
We deployed a $1.8 billion in acquisitions in 2015 with almost entirely a focus on software and medical technologies.
All of our acquisitions are really very high margin businesses; they are all asset light; theyre very specific leaders in niche markets; and they have high recurring revenue and strong management teams at each one of these companies that we acquired.
And on our recent acquisitions have been growing in excess of 10% a year which gives us as they become organic rather acquisitions a benefit to our organic notes.
Next slide: If we look at this bridge we put together I think really help people understand about the performance in the forward nature of what well do in 2016.
If you look at the base revenue in 2015 it was $3 552 million and it ended the year $3 593 million but thats not the story being up 1%.
The story is that we had organic growth in our RF segment; we had organic growth in Medical; and we had substantial acquisitions even though we divested Abel which was $20 million plus revenue business.
So those three components added 7% to our trailing revenue number of last year.
But we had a 3% currency headwind almost all of which was in the Energy and Industrial segments.
And that 3% brought the number down and then we had $35 million of negative organic growth in Industrial almost all of which was in Roper and FTI which are our upstream fluid handling businesses.
And then we had $72 million negative organic in Energy the vast the majority of which was again upstream although in the fourth quarter we didnt get the seasonal push that we normally would get.
So we had a little bit of fall off in the fourth quarter in the mid and downstream business.
So about 2.5% of the 3% negative organic in Industrial and Energy was related directly to oil and gas.
Also something that gets us obscured a bit by the numbers is our organic growth in the first quarter of 15 was 6% excluding oil and gas.
And we actually grew 2% in the second third and fourth quarter excluding oil and gas.
So those headwinds that we had to contend with in 2015 around oil and gas markets will be dramatically smaller in 2016 than they were this year although there is still some real challenges.
And the currency isnt going to be $104 million; it will be probably 80% less than that negative number.
Next slide: If we look at the outstanding margins you can see on the left hand side the gross margins in 2013 we were at 58.6 and those were raised 70 basis points in 14 and then raised twice that a 140 basis points this year to 60.7.
And our EBITDA margins in 2013 were 32.8; they were raised 100 basis points in 14 to 33.8 and another 80 basis points this year to 34.6.
So the continued margin expansion just comes really from a focus on our asset light businesses being able to reinvest for growth for and themselves and we had great leverage throughout the enterprise as a result.
Next slide: To get to really whats the core of our entire business model is compounding our cash flow.
And this compounding you can see continues to be outstanding in a year where we really only had 1% revenue growth.
Our free cash flow is up 11%; our free cash flow at $929 million is up $89 million from the $840 million.
So we had a great quarter in the fourth quarter with $269 million in cash but we had a terrific year with $893 million in cash in our view still the best major performance.
If you look at our cash guidance youll see our cash guidance tells a different story than the EPS guidance.
Next slide: If you look at the financial position of the Company here you can see cash at the end of this past year closed down at $779 million up from $610 million a year before and up from $460 million in 2013.
Now weve deployed almost a third of that here in January to close the CliniSys acquisition which is a little bit over $250 million and that happened in the month of January.
We also upsized our revolver; our revolver use to be $1 500 million our revolver is now $1 850 million and you can see on our undrawn revolver we have 1 670 million.
So between cash and undrawn revolver is about $2.5 billion of powder there.
Our trailing 12 months EBITDA 1 250 million of course will be -- thats not a pro forma number and it will continue to get bigger as the year goes on.
But even at 1 245 million our net debt to EBITDA is only 2; at the end of 13 it was 1.9.
So weve done over a couple of billion dollars of acquisitions and only have net debt of about $500 million.
So we still have a great deal of ample liquidity to do anything we want to do in the acquisition front in 2016.
Next slide: Here we will start to look at the specific segment detail and outlook.
Next slide: If we look at the four segments the Energy segment; the Industrial; the RF; and the Medical segment you will see that they all are -- performed phenomenally from an EBITDA and gross margin basis.
So even though you have a year where Energy and Industrial together came in at $1 333 million which was down 12% from the prior years 1 519 million they still delivered 31% EBITDA margins in both years and both were over 50% in gross margins.
In our RF and Medical space those guys were up 11% from $2 billion roughly to $2.260 billion and of course they have even stronger margins with 36% EBITDA for RF and 45% EBITDA for Medical.
And the Medical and the RF businesses are now already 70% of our total EBITDA even though all the segments have extraordinary margins.
Next slide: So we will start first with Medical which is our largest segment.
And here you can see in the quarter we had organic revenue of plus 3% acquisitions of plus 12% and foreign exchange a negative 3%.
The SHP and IPA acquisitions from 14 finally went to organic and they delivered double-digit growth for us in this quarter.
We had very strong sales out of nearly double digit with new product launches that we had talked about earlier in the year continuing to gain tracking.
And our Northern Digital business had an outstanding year were up more than 10% with very strong revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
Atlas Medical which is small acquisition that we bolted into Sunquest in the fourth quarter its integration activity is doing well and we expect that to contribute in 2016.
And Id say we should comment on completed all-time record year is just compounding their growth and everything going well in that arena.
In 2016 the way we see the year unfolding is that we will continue to be nimble.
And when I say our operating leverage for the full year in Medical was 50% so as these grow they contribute outsized incremental gains for us.
We think we will have mid-single digit organic growth in Medical throughout 16 and we think that will get stronger as the year goes on.
Sunquest has a number of version changes and software release updates that are rolling out in the second half that will be quite beneficial.
And then Strata Data Innovations and SoftWriters which are growing rapidly will become organic in the second half.
Verathon and Northern Digital are going to continue to grow at a relatively high rate in 16.
And then we closed on January 7th the CliniSys acquisition in the UK which is European hospital laboratory software provider and it will add to our acquisition sales growth in 2016.
Next slide: Here we look at RF Technology.
And RF Technology was up in the fourth quarter 4% organically and had a negative FX of a point and acquisitions and divestitures added 15%.
So their revenue was up 18% operating profit up 30% and the operating profit margin 31.1%.
Software throughout the segment performed exceptionally well in the fourth quarter as we returned to pretty good growth at iTrade and double-digit growth of Freight Matching.
Aderant was acquired in October and its off to a great start with the Aderant team.
And in fact some of us are working with them in terms of coordinating some of large clients being more secure going in with Aderant in the future as opposed to the fact that they were run by private equity in the past.
Toll and traffic projects are progressing really quite well Riyadh is doing alright although the startups in traffic in Riyadh tend to be a more civil engineering at the beginning before we get all the software revenue but theyre still fine.
And our Infinity Lanes that weve been rolling out in Florida and Texas are on schedule and contributing substantially.
We think well have mid-single-digit organic growth for the year with stronger growth in the second half for RF primarily because TransCore is finally out of an arrangement where we were providing tolling administration in Puerto Rico and thats been quite a challenge in last half of this past year and will be completely out of our business model this year.
So its a little bit dilutive to our revenue but its very much accretive to our sanity as trying to get money out of Puerto Rico as you know is not an easy task.
But that will put a drag on revenue in the first two quarters about 10 million bucks each quarter but thats revenue were happy to avoid.
Our operating leverage for the segment by the way in 2015 was up 56%.
So here again as we get incremental revenue and we expect to have that in 2016 youll see continued margin enhancement.
The software businesses we think will grow at kind of mid-single-digits but they do have exceptional margins that allow us to use cash to reinvest in other transactions.
And then the recent acquisitions that weve had Aderant RF Ideas and On Center are all growing at a pretty strong rate and they have excellent cash flow performance and eventually they too will become organic.
Next slide: If we look at Industrial Technology here in the fourth quarter organic revenue was down 8%.
Its all pretty much all oil and gas upstream with our businesses that are related to that.
To get some context about this in 2014 the oil and gas portion of Industrial Technology was about 12% of revenue and unlike RF where its zero and Medical where its zero.
And Industrial Tech was 12% 14 and this year that dropped down to 9% of revenue; and in our forecast for 16 we think it will be down about 6% of revenue in the segment.
Its almost exclusively upstream activity for surface and water pumping projects.
We also had the divestiture which came full circle with Abel with about in the low-20s of revenue that contributed nothing in the fourth quarter of this year and of course will be out all of next year.
Neptune grew really quite well double-digit growth in the U.S.
in the fourth quarter.
The Toronto project was still there as a headwind as we told last year its closed to 10 million a quarter.
But it finally sunsets in the first quarter of next year.
So Neptunes growth in 2016 will be outsized compared to the way it has looked with the Toronto headwind in the past.
Were forecasting continuing declines really in the upstream oil and gas.
It was off about 30% for 2015 and we think it will be off another 30% in 2016 but of course it gets to be down to a smaller number.
So its about a $20 million headwind for the segment going into 2016.
And the rest of the businesses we think will grow at kind of low-single-digit numbers maybe a little bit better than that.
So we go to the next slide.
I should say that OP leverage and Industrial for the year it deleveraged 40%.
So with gross margins about 50 and delevering at 40 we think that was pretty good performance.
Next slide: On Energy Systems &amp; Controls they had this continued fall off as one would expect particularly in the upstream arena.
Their operating leveraging for 2015 though was really quite good negative 39% and their gross margins were 58%.
So I think everybody performed quite nimbly although in the fourth quarter Compressor Controls started to see really deep dive on their project work and hadnt really restructured around that yet and that activity will happen here in the first quarter.
So they contributed terrifically over the last several years but are going to have to face the reality of a major decline in project work.
Its not going to reoccur for some long period of time.
Now in the quarter organic growth then was off as you can see 17% FX by 4%.
Our seasonal improvement actually did occur sort of as we forecasted just not quite as much.
We were up 9% seasonally in the fourth quarter energy but normally were up kind of 17% to 20% and occasionally 25% in the fourth quarter.
So we had thought wed be up maybe 15% in the fourth quarter and by only coming up that kind of pulled back our revenue tad in the fourth quarter which was direct result of being little less revenue than we expected out of that.
Certainly backlogs are reduced in the segment and that oil and gas project businesses are kind of rapidly deteriorate although thats not a surprise.
The unbelievable growth in Zetec as both South Korea and Japan and Middle East are roaring back and in fact we are up quite dramatically in Zetec and we think that will accrete to very strong performance for Zetec in 2016.
The operating margin which really speaks to the nimbleness of the operating people we have in these businesses was still 32.7% even though the segment was down substantially in revenue.
As we look at what we are talking here for 2016 you can see sort of high single-digit organic decline for the segment; oil and gas we think will be down about 15% which will be about $50 million drag on the settlement so about $20 million out of is Industrial and about $50 out of Energy.
The project activity is going to be force Compressor Controls to do some aggressive restructuring.
And I know that its a challenge for everybody but there is no question the market requires us to do that.
And then we think well have modest growth in the rest of the areas in the industrial and nuclear arena.
Next slide: So here is we get into the 2016 guidance.
Next slide: We created another bridge for you here for 2016 so you get a sense of whats really going on and the health of the overall business.
You can see we finished this last year 15 at $3 593 million.
We expect revenue to be up between 8% to 10% in 2016 and we think organic revenue will be between 2% and 4% in the coming year.
So well get mid single-digits organic growth out of RF and mid single-digit organic growth out of Medical.
I think well have a low single-digit organic growth out of Industrial whereas last year you might remember it was negative number.
And then already completed acquisitions net of the Abel divestiture are going to contribute sizeable portion of revenue in 2016.
We think well still have the high single-digit organic drop in Energy but thats a big improvement over last years organic drop.
And in foreign exchange which was a $104 million last year is probably going to be about 80% less headwind for us in 2016 so maybe something in the $20 million to $25 million arena.
And that makes just as we showed you we grew last years 7% until you hit the oil and gas number.
Just easier comps throughout the year for us once we get past the first quarter.
Next slide: So if we look at the 2016 guidance you can see for the full year were saying operating cash flow we would hope would meet or exceeded $1 billion.
And operating cash flow is going to have just a very limited CapEx drag for it to convert to free cash flow.
This past year I think CapEx was $36 million; we wouldnt expect it to be any higher than that this year; so certainly less than 1% of revenue probably quite a bit less than 1% of revenue.
Full-year adjusted DEPS were saying are $6.85 to $7.15.
And the key assumptions around that is we get for the full year revenue growth of 8% to 10% organic growth of 2% to 4% comps ease after the first quarter and in the first quarter weve got a lot of headwinds.
So weve got revenue drag out of Puerto Rico weve got oil and gas had not really hit us in the first quarter of last year and then we had some unique revenue coming out of Roper Pump; that wont continue and weve got little higher interest cost because of the bigger drop with acquisitions but we also get benefit in earnings.
But Q1 last year at 6% organic and the last three quarters had 2% organic so we certainly dont expect 6% organic net of oil and gas in the first quarter.
Our non-cash amortization increases by $30 million so our non-cash amortization will be a $195 million in 2016.
And if you want to use cash earnings you can add that back to the net earnings number.
Interest expense is about $25 million higher than last year to $109 million.
Our tax rate is going to be somewhat similar to this past year in the 30% to 30.5% arena.
And of course none of these includes any new acquisitions and we do expect to be pretty active in 2016 and add in additional high quality businesses.
In the first quarter we are going to establish guidance at $1.42 to $1.47 because of those things that we have to face in the first quarter that what were not at the end of last year.
But well get improvements throughout the year on those things with quite dramatic improvement in the second half which is not based on hope but just the reality of when we know to be the case.
Next slide: As we look at 2015 summary and then the outlook for the year we delivered record annual results for orders and revenue and margin and net earnings EBITDA and cash flow in 15 and that was despite probably the biggest headwind period we had with so much coming from currency and oil and gas.
Our operating cash flow was up 11% free cash flow also up 11%.
We had terrific margin improvement with gross margins up 140 basis points to 60.7%.
EBITDA margin is up 80 basis points to 34.6%.
And free cash flow at $893 million represented 25% of every dollar of our revenue and 132% cash conversion versus the DEPS number.
We deployed $1.8 billion in really attractive acquisitions and we increased our dividend by 20%.
As we go into this year we expect to deliver record performance in 16 with that revenue growth we mentioned just the slide before 8% to 10%; operating cash flow around $1 billion.
We think well deploy well over $1 billion in acquisitions that can easily be higher than that.
And weve already closed our first one with CliniSys for about $250 million in January.
Weve got a very attractive pipeline.
We are looking at a transaction on Friday and another one on Monday.
And so there is just a great deal of activity going on probably the most that we have ever seen in terms of pipeline.
We continue to compound cash increased shareholder value last year you got a lot of alpha [ph] off us in 2015.
And were just going to think we can continue to increase our cash as we look at 2016.
So with that John I think we are ready for questions.
I think so.
So Diana we are ready for the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
Thank you.
[Operator instruction] Now we will take our first question from Shannon OCallaghan of UBS.
Brain just on the assumptions on the oil and gas of the down 30 for Industrial Tech and down 15 for Energy maybe just explain a little bit more the differences between those two decline rates and then some of the other businesses around the oil and gas stuff within the energy segment that you have a better outlook for.
Well in industrial basically Roper Pump is almost exclusively oriented around upstream oil and gas.
So its not a huge business but it has a big big drawback when you have change in tracking and its primarily U.S.
business.
So if oil and gas component was down 30% in 15 from 14 and we expect it will be down another 30% in 16 15 but its still fairly small number.
So its about $20 million revenue drag that were modeling into 16.
None of the other businesses in Industrial Technology have anything to do with oil and gas.
Theyre instrument companies or over half is the Neptune and water meter business which is going to grow next year.
So its just that one isolated.
And there is no midstream and downstream activity really in Industrial.
When you get into Energy much much bigger total dollars of what you are talking about about 60% of the segment is oil and gas but only some of it is upstream primarily upstream portion or couple of very small businesses Viatran and little bit of Amont [ph] and then quite a lot of Compressor Controls.
So Compressor Controls has been living off of a great project backlog.
Their service work we expect could be a record this year in 2016 but we think their project work will drop really dramatically it could drop $30 million to $40 million.
And the midstream and downstream activity for the year has been really decent all the way along; the only drag has been the currency.
But then in the fourth quarter we didnt get as much of a seasonal uptick in those downstream businesses as we normally do so mostly testing businesses.
So that bodes for slight deterioration probably in 16.
The rest of the Energy businesses the 40% are really mostly test and measurement kind of businesses and then were up really sharply at Zetec.
So that helps offset -- thats we are saying 15% for Energy but its 30% for the upstream portion of Industrial.
And then within Industrial in terms of getting from organic declines to starting to grow there again what is the Toronto comp impact; what was it in 4Q; what is it in 1Q? And then whats driving that double-digit Neptune growth; I mean is that kind of a sustainable rate or whats the Its certainly going to be very solid growth in 2016.
Its about $10 million dividend [ph] each quarter for the Toronto project as its fell off.
There is a little bit of revenue we are still getting out of Toronto for last minute adjustments but its not very meaningful.
Its just domestic growth in commercial water meters and new wins in projects.
We are going to have some -- I mean we are having share gains that are really obvious to us when we look at the data and we are going to have further share gains in 2016 that we are confident of based on all of our contacts and with our bid process.
Yes.
Shannon Toronto project really completed substantially in the first quarter of 2015.
So its still kind of in that $10 million comp range in the fourth quarter against the fourth of 14 and it will have a little bit of a headwind in the first quarter on a year-over-year basis.
But then after that its going to be more normalized.
So its not an acceleration that were looking for; its really some headwinds that start to go away.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Deane Dray of RBC Capital Markets.
Id like to go back on to the oil exposures for Industrial and Energy and just talk about if you could your visibility in the businesses specifically around orders in the quarter.
And then on the organic assume declines; maybe discuss what volume versus pricing.
There is a lot of supplier squeezing thats going on in the sector and wouldnt be surprised to see if youre seeing some pricing pressure as well.
Well if you talk of ourselves Ill tell you its massive pricing but there is no pricing pressure.
Thats not the issue at all just pure -- the biggest component of course is currency but then from a unit situation its the project work at Compressor Controls this year.
Its really easy to detail that out.
So those numbers are pretty good.
Last year we actually said when we initiated guidance we thought upstream would be down about 20%.
You correctly challenged us about CapEx is down 30 might it not be down 30 and we said well it could be down more than 20 but we thought we had a particular arrangement around surface drilling which is new technology which has rapidly gained share and it was doing that at the time and we thought that would continue in the second quarter.
But in the second quarter they basically stopped all ordering and consumed all inventory they could and that hurt us a little bit.
And then in the fourth quarter we didnt get any seasonal bounce -- well we did but not as much as normally would.
So were very comfortable around guiding down 20 million on oil and gas and industrial and around 50 million in energy.
I think thats quite correct.
And then there would still be a little bit more drag on a nominal number basis with currency but its definitely not pricing.
And the guys have been pretty correct all year along except for that Q2 situation Roper Pump where our supply agreement got suspended for that quarter.
What were orders in the quarter for both? The segment book-to-bill was like 0.88 for energy in the fourth quarter.
And it was 0.97 for industrial.
So on the industrial side that 0.97 is the kind of typical for a fourth quarter but its definitely wider.
So you asked about visibility also.
So for the products businesses particularly around upstream and even on the mid  downstream those are generally going to be book and ship inside of a relatively short window two months or so.
Where we do have better visibility and where were talking more about this is on the Compressor Controls right because its more of a project business and thats where we saw an order shortfall in the fourth quarter leading to that 0.9 book-to-bill area and why were expecting that to be a tough year for the project based business because we have good visibility in that area.
Brian your referenced back in the second quarter some of our expectations that upstream could be worse.
Just to kind of give you a data point we had launch on Friday with the CEO of Schlumberger and their expectations is upstream could be down 35%.
So were in that right neighborhood.
And just last question for me would be these businesses so we talk about Roper Pumps or Compressor Controls; these are legacy Roper Industries businesses and certainly not something that you would be looking to invest in today.
Now in the teeth of the oil pressures here certainly not a time to talk about divesting but would there be an opportunity at some point to separate the Roper Industry legacy businesses from Roper Technologies where youre focusing today? Its certainly possible; we talk about it quite a lot.
And there are a lot of different avenues for achieving that.
It could be spun off as an independent entity where people would be able to make kind of one-for-one decision about whether they wanted to be in that space as an investor and it could be put together with another business and some kind of merger.
Again its not something we would likely sell because the tax [indiscernible] sale is just pretty prohibitive.
And the businesses are very good.
I mean the oil and gas businesses we put the whole thing together and they have an EBITDA margin of 34%.
And they dont take a lot of assets; they are very very cash accretive to our number.
And for those people who like EPS they give us terrific EPS because there is no amortization.
But youre right.
I mean its something were always going to look at.
And certainly there have been more than one phone call in-bound about people who like to do something but selling them is not the best thing for our investors finding tax free alternative to that would be more attractive.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Joe Giordano at Cowen &amp; Company.
So what Ive been trying to get with everyones guidance is kind of separate how much is the progression throughout the year is anticipating a market upturn like an underlying market upturn and how much is specific to the company as cadence of revenue thats already in hand orders that you already have in hand.
So how do you separate your expectations with better second half versus what you know and what you are hoping? Its a whole lot more of what we know and what we hope.
We dont really have very many businesses only one or two that have any tide at something thats kind of a larger macro in the markets.
The markets that we serve are so niche.
They end up being more driven by our activity around new products or new software releases rather than hope for some macroeconomic recovery.
We are not really expecting any of that; thats not something that we try to forecast.
It really doesnt drive many of our businesses.
But its not as simple as orders in hand because we really dont have orders in hand for products or for activity thats going to jump in the third quarter or fourth quarter.
So were not a projects type of E&amp;C business like that.
But its really around things that we know that were going to able to introduce to the niche markets that we serve and again new products growth in those areas.
And then as you look at your pipeline into 2016 what have you seen in terms I guess across the various sectors that you play in and in terms of bid ask spreads and how they are moderating or how they are moving which areas are looking increasingly more attractive or increasingly less so in terms of valuation? In terms of acquisitions? Yes.
The bid ask spread is wide its always wide.
We were able to deploy $1.8 billion last year and weve already got a quarter of $1 billion done now.
So we dont anticipate any difficulty at all.
I do think that the notes out today are interesting.
So there werent any IPOs in January.
So if you were a seller of private equity you might continue to say whatever you think somebody is going to listen to.
But the reality is their debt costs are going up and their active strategies are diminishing.
We remain the best mid market acquirer of assets on the face of the earth.
So we are not going to have any difficulty in finding high quality businesses at rational prices.
At what point does it -- do you start looking -- you guys are ahead of getting away from some of these energy industrial type of applications into where you are with your medical businesses? At what point do you start to look opportunistically a little bit more aggressively at some of these sectors that have been down a little bit more? What we always look at is the cash return we can get out of an investment.
And so what happens is its hugely difficult for an industrial asset to have the kind of cash returns that we are going to demand.
But whenever we see them we are willing to make investments in those.
We bought a pure product company in RF Ideas this year which is just a world class business with terrific leadership very high margins relatively light assets but they are certainly making stuff and they are selling stuff.
So it depends on the quality of what it is we see.
But we would never buy something at a public market deep discount.
Lets say some energy business dropped 30% we wouldnt buy something because it dropped 30%; we would only buy something because its forward cash returns were extremely attractive.
And as generally as a rule people overpay for low quality assets under the theory that they are going to find some way to make it better.
So well leave the buying of distressed assets to others.
We want to buy businesses that have consistent growth and recurring revenue and light assets models.
And we havent seen any other than RF Ideas.
We havent seen anything in the last two years in the Industrial segment that qualifies for that.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Richard Eastman of Robert W.
Baird.
Brian could you just speak for a minute or two to the medical segment in general? Again given the 16 guidance mid single-digit growth and the core order growth of 7% in the fourth quarter it looks little attractive.
Is there anything in the mix to be alert for in 16 between medical products and software and imaging when you are talking about mid single-digit growth either of those or any of those kind a leading core growth and could give us an upward bias on the margin line for medical? Its a good question.
Sorry I have to dissect it.
Remember that in the medical and software we have a huge amount of recurring revenue right? So the recurring revenue its not going to grow by a higher number.
So when we say mid to high single-digit that has to be something that takes a whole segment into consideration.
So the product portion in the new software sales have to be higher than that in order to get the whole segment up to mid single-digits.
I dont think that there is any -- certainly Sunquest in the second half of the year should have outsized growth to what it had throughout 2015 because we had the meaningful use improvement in 14 and the beginning of 15 that is a comparative drag and that will go away as 16 matures.
I dont think there is really any particular driver we -- in the medical software -- in the software businesses and RF component there some drivers that have had escalating growth.
I dont know John if you want to add anything.
No I dont think so.
So I think it really will be.
We expect 16 to be led by more higher V [ph] on the medical product side with some continued new product introductions; we introduced some things at Verathon in the latter part of 15 so those start to really ramp up.
We have other new products that are being introduced to the market as well as well as continued growth around some image-guided surgery applications that Northern Digital continues to just perform phenomenally well on.
And then as Brain mentioned in the software and services side thats kind of a mid-single digit grower anyway because of the huge amount of recurring revenue.
And thats what we expect in the latter part of 16.
We are not expecting a whole lot of recovery at all in the imaging world.
I think thats expected to be flat to maybe up a little bit.
And then just one last question John when you kind of speak to 16 overall again we -- we all have our estimates as to what acquisitions completed will contribute to the EBIT line.
But on that 2% to 4% core growth whats just kind of a mid-point conversion rate that we should see on the 2% to 4% for the core business? Conversion you mean like leverage? Yes to the EBIT line? Its not a come up to your own we expect that to be somewhere in the 40% to 50% range.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Robert McCarthy of Stifel.
So two questions one is just kind of the old chestnut that people asked about Roper and M&amp;A.
And clearly given the environment we are seeing and I guess one of the cofounders of Apollo [ph] just talked about the financing markets shutting down and the sky is falling.
But in terms of just coming back to that question is there particular types of companies that you are kind of looking at now that really lend [ph] themselves to be acquirer in these environments for really there is a crowd out of traditional private equity and really you can kind of sweep in besides just normal is there particular vertical or end market where you are really well-positioned or well-advantaged? And does this allow for bigger deals of size or of a certain deciles and shaking out this environment? Well it is certainly true that there -- on things that are relatively large in potential acquisitions maybe there will be less competition for those assets as the year unfolds than there have been in the last three years.
I noticed on some of the large things that we looked at if they get bought back private equity it isnt one fund its three guys going together.
But debt staples were still out there.
I mean we are looking at a deal Friday that has a six and half times debt staple.
So as long as debt staples are that high and we wouldnt use it the private equity is going to use that.
They can put in four turns at EBITDA and you are still 10.5 times EBITDA.
So that kind of businesses that we acquire they were public they tend to trade at 25 times enterprise value to EBITDA or more.
I know its hard for people to follow that because theyre looking at traditional multi-industry stuff but multiples are dramatically less.
So we are going to continue look at these things are with a great deal from an arbitrage perspective in a public market versus what we have to pay for them.
And those tend to crowd out the lesser quality businesses where people pay eight nine 10 times for something thats worth 10.
And we tend to pay 11 and 12 times for something thats worth 25 and thats really how we get all this out for performance consistently over a long period time and thats going to continue.
Last year we did something that I wouldnt have forecast which is we did six or seven deals to get the $2 billion; we would have rather done $1.5 billion deal and a $500 million deal.
But the small deals were unbelievably compelling and they are all growing double digits.
So I think it was a good thing to do.
We are still seeing a lot of those kind of opportunities.
So as the year unfolds it will be a battle between sort of saving our powder for really large transaction and were going ahead and investing early on things that are somewhat modest.
At the end of the day for our shareholders the result is about the same.
Its just easier for us to do a large deal than five small deals.
But it should be an easy year for us to deploy capital very favorable.
And as a follow-up I mean just obviously in ramping up coverage of you all again after a long dormancy.
The cash return on investment kind of metric you use and kind of animates your M&amp;A and capital redeployment strategy obviously makes a heck lot of sense.
And I certainly have drunk the Kool-Aid with respect to the discipline around it.
I think the most important epiphany coming out of it is basically the strategy and the metrics are kind of completely aligned.
In another words you dont stretch for what is perceived as a strategic deal because a strategic deals one which meets the metrics right? So I just the only question I have is where do you think there are risks to the CRI discipline or maybe the businesses youre looking at? Do you think its may be an assessment of the code? I know you use a third-party consultancy to kind of look at the -- kind of related intellectual property and software and association with deals and there can be obviously risk there can be risk of technological substitution.
Maybe you just talk about where you just level headedly think about the risks in association with your capital redeployment strategy? Well lets maybe just for a second if we have think about risk in general if you look at transactions because people were asking questions about when we buy some cheap stuff.
So the cheap stuff in industrial and there is all kinds of stuff and their public stocks are going to continue to deteriorate and you could buy them.
Hey whats wrong with those as they can get working get disintermediated from distribution channels.
They can wind up with the premium model out of Google on some bizarre thing; they wind up with Amazon selling past their competition at low-price point.
So all kinds of things that happen they desperately need absorption.
So if revenue falls off there is nothing they can do without big restructuring charges.
When we get to our space its really around whether or not the people in the niche that we acquire have domain expertise which is very hard for somebody to break into.
And so the entry barriers for their success are entirely different.
So the risk is that we continue to assess the quality of the management teams that we acquire well and we understand whether or not there are technologies that could leapfrog what they do.
So that we spent most of our time around the people aspects of the business and then around big risks that those people dont see that we would put kind of a different factor on.
We tend to discount their forward growth projections because we dont pay for synergies or forward growth we only pay for what we think the business is going to deliver at the time of the acquisition.
And that really puts a huge dampening effect on the risk that we might otherwise have.
And weve been kind of blessed to be fortunate in that arena.
But I think our disciplines are such because we actually start with somebodys balance sheet and then we start with what it takes to run the business.
We dont do like what a private equity people do theyll buy a software company and theyll mandate an immediate 10% reduction.
One of the private equity firms out there actually goes in and does a listing up the highest pay people and they whack off the highest paid people and put new college guys and big salary reductions.
And then that kind of hideous serious activity doesnt manifest itself in the business for four or five years.
So you have to understand what each private equity groups business model is when youre looking at the assets they hold and youre acquiring it and I think we knew that better than anybody.
Well take our next question from Christopher Glynn of Oppenheimer.
Just wondering in medical here the product cycles in the devices seems to be coming on pretty well.
I wondered Northern Digital Verathon you look at hose to be able to climb for double-digit rate at some point and are the product cycles that have been notable the past few quarters is that sort of a couple of year dynamic do you think? Yes I do think so.
What were really seeing out of Verathon is a refresh.
So its not a completely new product category which actually reduces the risk for us.
These are really upgrades and extensions of their existing live scope like in 2015 in BladderScan and 2016.
So those are kind of a couple of year adoption rates that go on there.
Northern Digital doesnt have to get up to double-digits; they just have to continue double-digit growth.
Theyve been growing at double-digits here for couple of years as theyre really the leader in both the optical tracking as well as the electromagnetic tracking for computer assisted surgery applications.
And those continue to just expand.
Those applications just expand.
And whenever there is new that an OEM customer wants to design they always come back in Northern Digital because theyre the world leaders in that technology.
And then just if there is any room left there so wanted to expand on Robs question a little bit where you had a record year last year in deal flow and talked about I think record pipeline volume or breadth.
Have you transitioned more kind of wholeheartedly to CRI and is increasingly tolerant definition of strategic part of the reason why your pipeline and your yield has kind of accelerated to somewhat unpredictable levels? No no.
Lets go back and think about with -- reason I said some time ago that the Sunquest and question MHA acquisitions were more transformational than the Neptune and TransCore transformations were.
Because at Neptune we paid four times EBITDA of the enterprise in December of 2003 to acquire Neptune at what somebody probably thought was a high price for $500 million.
The next year in 2004 we just paid about four times again the trailing revenue of the firm 3.5 or something for TransCore 600 million.
Well neither one of those businesses have lend themselves to adding exciting bolt-on activities to them or giving new domain experience in an area that was easily widened.
When you acquire a leading laboratory software provider in a world thats going to have more and more laboratory instrument usage and will move to genomics in the immediate future you have big upside ramp.
When you have MHA with senior living and nursing homes and all the things around non-acute hospitalization shifts and demography these things just give you all kinds of opportunity.
Well good heavens we have acquired now SoftWriters for MHA which is growing at double-digits so its a terrific acquisition.
Weve been able to acquire CliniSys which we connect really with Sunquest.
We acquired Data Innovations which is phenomenal company that guides all the instrumentation in the hospital into various systems and yet its part of Sunquest.
So thats why we can look at these things which are somewhat synergistic at least in the marketplace or in the information technology side of them that we couldnt do with the industrial and energy businesses.
That will end our question-and-answer session for this call.
We now return back to John Humphrey for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And thank you all for joining us.
I know there were a couple of folks on line for follow up questions; we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Otherwise well look forward to talking t everyone in three months at the end of the first quarter.
That will conclude todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.