Good afternoon and welcome to the first quarter conference call for investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for this afternoon's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon.
Thank you Jacqueline.
Welcome and good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' first quarter 2011 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our first quarter performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today’s call contains forward looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material that we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is April 28 2011.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Based on our first quarter performance Republic Services is on track to achieve the financial guidance provided in February.
Financial and operational highlights include revenue of approximately $2 billion for the quarter.
Total price growth in the quarter was 2.6% with core price of 1%.
We secured core price increases across all lines of business and continued our focus on retaining existing business that generates appropriate returns.
Volumes declined 0.7% which is a sequential improvement of 40 basis points including 110 basis point improvement in Collection.
This is the fourth straight quarter of sequential volume improvement in the Collection business.
Our first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.42.
Our first quarter adjusted free cash flow was $273 million.
We repurchased 5 million shares in the first quarter for $148 million.
We are on track to complete the existing authorization before the end of 2011.
We returned $225 million to our shareholders during the quarter.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
We recently closed a new 5 year $1.25 billion credit facility.
Republic continues to extend debt maturities and lower interest costs.
Moody's recently raised the outlook on our credit rating to positive.
Republic is committed to a strategy of growing our business improving return on capital returning cash to shareholders and a strong credit profile.
We recently purchased 2 recycling facilities in the Midwest to enhance our recycling capabilities.
Our field organization continues to effectively manage our cost structure.
All controllable costs remain flat or decreased as a percentage of revenue including labor and maintenance expenses.
We achieved year to year labor productivity gains in all Collection lines of business.
We saw a reduction in frequency of insurance claims.
Our accident and injury frequency improved by approximately 15% as compared to 2010.
I would like to thank our field operations for their commitment to a high level of performance in all aspects of our business.
Tod and Ed will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
First quarter 2011 revenue as Don indicated was approximately $2 billion.
Change in revenue from the prior period includes the following: First our core price growth of 1%.
In total the Collection lines of business saw a core price increase of 1% with all lines of business reporting positive price increases in the first quarter.
Our total disposal core price increased by 1.3% which includes landfill MSW of 2.1% which was partially offset by relatively lower priced event C&amp;D and event special waste driven work.
This level of pricing is in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Since our price on index based contracts tends to lag we are still impacted by lower CPI environment that occurred in 2009 and 2010.
This has not yet anniversaried.
In 2011 we expect core price of approximately 1% in the first half of the year and in a range of 1.5% to 2% in the second half of the year.
Second our commodity revenue increase of 1%.
Commodity prices increased by 19% to an average price of $149 per ton in the current quarter from $125 per ton in the prior year.
Q1 recycling facility commodity volume of 478 000 tons was up approximately 13% from the prior year and up 8% on a same store basis.
As Don mentioned we've recently purchased 2 recycling facilities.
As a reminder our 2011 guidance was based on December 2010 average commodity prices which at that time was about $143 a ton.
If prices hold at the current April levels of about $152 a ton our EPS would increase for the year by about $0.02.
Now for reference purposes a $10 change per ton in commodity value equals about $0.02 of EPS and that is net of the impact of rebates.
Let me talk briefly about our fuel recovery fee which increased by 0.6%.
The increase in fuel recovery fees relates to an increase of fuel costs obviously.
The average price per gallon of diesel increased to $3.63 in the first quarter of '11 from $2.85 in the prior year about a 27% increase.
Our 2011 guidance was based on an average fuel price of $3.42 a gallon.
If prices hold at the current April levels of $4.10 per gallon our full year EPS would decrease by about $0.05.
Again for reference purposes a $0.10 change in diesel fuel per gallon is slightly less than $0.01 of EPS which includes the impact of the fuel recovery fees.
Now let me turn to volumes.
Volumes were down 0.7% year over year.
As Don indicated this is a sequential improvement from the fourth quarter 2010 of 40 basis points.
We continue to see volume improvements in the Collection business which is now down less than 1% over the prior year.
Volumes improved in all Collection lines sequentially including a 220 basis point increase in the Industrial business and also 100 basis point sequential increase in the Commercial business.
Our volumes improved despite the severe weather early in the quarter.
Our landfill and transfer station volumes had year over year growth of about 2%.
This continues to reflect the positive contribution from both permanent and temporary special waste volumes.
Our outlook for special waste activity remains strong and we remain confident that we can replace or slightly exceed the volumes that we received in 2010.
Now let me turn to our margins.
First quarter year over year margins.
The first quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA margin was 30.6% compared to 31.7% in the prior year.
This decline in margin is primarily due to the 27% increase in the cost of diesel fuel.
That's 120 basis points of negative margin impact.
The average price per gallon again as I'd indicated increased to $3.63 in the quarter from $2.85 in the prior year like quarter and again with the current prices at $4.10 a gallon.
Partially offsetting the increase in fuel cost was an increase in related fuel recovery fee revenue resulting in a net decrease in EBITDA margin of about 80 basis points.
If prices remain at this level for fuel we will have margin headwind for the balance of the year.
Other significant changes to margin include transfer and disposal costs.
We actually had a 30 basis point improvement here which primarily relates to the margin benefit of incremental landfill volumes that carry little or no associated disposal cost.
Next transportation and subcontract expenses.
We had an 80 basis point improvement in margin results from redirecting waste streams within our transfer and disposal network.
Also the loss of the Toronto disposal contract which had a high level of transportation cost and the divestiture of 3 New York City transfer stations in late 2010 helped our transportation subcontract expenses as a percentage of revenue.
Risk management.
Here it's a little lumpy.
The 40 basis point increase in expense relates to the change in actuarial estimates.
As we've said before we perform actuarial assessment of risk reserves each quarter which can create volatility.
We could very easily smooth the numbers through the year but we believe this is the best practice.
In 2010's first quarter we benefited from favorable adjustments to prior plan years.
The favorable adjustment was repeated in the first quarter of 2011 but not at the same level.
Our net benefit was probably in the range of $2 million to $3 million.
Next recycling cost of goods sold.
The unfavorable 50 basis point increase in expense relates to increases in rebates to customers for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold at our recycling facilities increased to an average of $47 per ton from $38 in the prior year.
Commodity revenue increases more than offset this increase in cost resulting in an increased spread of approximately $15 per ton.
The net impact here was obviously favorable 40 basis points in EBITDA margin.
And finally SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A expense excluding the cost to achieve synergies was 10.4% of revenue compared to 10.2% in the prior year.
The 20 basis point increase in expense relates primarily to investments in programs designed to lower cost drive efficiency and increase productivity.
We expect full year 2011 SG&amp;A expenses to approximate 10% of revenue.
Now let me talk briefly about our DD&amp;A.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was relatively comparable at 11.5% in the current year versus 11.4% in the prior year.
And of course as we said before our DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles resulting from the merger.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ed to discuss interest expense free cash flow and the balance sheet.
Thanks Tod.
Q1 2011 interest expense was $116 million and that includes $22 million of noncash amortization.
As we continue to refinance our debt the portion related to the Allied debt discount of $9 million will decline.
On April 20 we closed a new 5 year $1.25 billion credit facility.
This new facility has a fully drawn cost equal to the facility being replaced.
Republic has total bank market capacity of $2.5 billion that can be used for issuing letters of credit short term borrowing and general corporate purposes.
During Q2 of this year we expect to refinance debt that matures throughout the year.
As you remember we started having debt maturities last November and that'll continue through August.
Notes due in May 2016 were called on April 15 and the notes that we offered to tender due in 2021 and 2035.
Our EPS guidance provided in February included the favorable impact of refinancing this debt but excluded any premiums paid or debt discounts written off in connection with extinguishments.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Q1 adjusted free cash flow was $273 million which consisted of first cash provided by operating activities of $434 million less property and equipment received of $169 million plus proceeds from the sale of property of $7 million plus merger related expenditures net of tax of $1 million.
And therefore adjusted free cash flow is $273 million.
At March 31 our accounts receivable balance was $840 million and our days sales outstanding was 39 days or 24 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $6.8 billion at March 31 and excess credit availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.4 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Before we get to Q&amp;A I would like to make a few comments on our guidance and cash utilization plans.
We are reaffirming the financial guidance provided on our February call including adjusted EPS of $1.86 to $1.89 adjusted free cash flow of $875 million to $900 million net capital spending of $735 million.
At our next board meeting in July we will review our dividend policy and expect to approve an increase of 5% to 10%.
We have completed almost 50% of our current share repurchase authorization.
Our board will authorize a new program at the October meeting to carry through 2012.
At this time operator I would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Hoffman Wunderlich Securities.
On the dividend you are running at about 40-ish percent of your free cash today.
And is there a feeling that you would want to drive that to a higher percentage get to more 50/50? And if you were going into that direction that would sort of auger closer to the 10% or maybe slightly more growth in the dividend? Well I think I said in my comments Michael we'll be talking about cash utilization strategy with the board in July as we always do every year and we'll be looking at raising the dividend as we normally do and we'll discuss all that cash utilization then and then again talk about share repurchase in October.
Okay.
And then on the volume side the 0.7% given the weather issues it would suggest that you would've been at least flat maybe even positive so it bodes well for structurally in the business broadly across the country.
But having said that are there still sort of pockets that we should be mindful of? No I think we're seeing pretty good volume consistent with our plan across the nation.
We still have probably more economic softness in the south and the west as we said before.
It is a big highlight for us.
We've seen now 4 quarters of sequential volume improvement in the Collection business.
And while we did have a little weather we chose not to really highlight it.
We have weather all the time probably a little more than we normally do but we feel pretty good about where we're heading as far as our February guidance.
And our next question comes from Scott Levine of JPMorgan.
So with regard to your pricing if you could talk    it sounds like you're expecting a back ended year and that is largely driven by inflation index pricing.
If you could comment on pricing trends in the competitive side of the business and maybe any regional color with regard to areas of strength or weakness there.
Why don't I let Ed talk about CPI and then I'll cover a little bit of the color.
Scott it's pretty consistent with what we said in February.
Keep in mind during the first half of this year we're still working through the lower CPI environment we saw in 2009 and into 2010.
As we get to July 1 in the second half of the year we'll anniversary out those lower CPI numbers and then we'll see CPI numbers that reflect more the full year average for 2010 which was about 1.6%.
So we will see kind of a lower CPI in the first half of the year a step up to that mid 1% in the second half of the year.
And then as we see CPI develop this year and I know we've seen a few months here getting a little bit higher pushing above 2% we really won't see that kind of blend into our numbers until the second half of '12.
As we usually state it takes about 12 or 18 months for that CPI trend to work its way into the average price.
And as we discussed on the other call Las Vegas is a very large market for us and there's probably one that has a longer lag than others but because of its size it doesn't impact the corporate average.
And in Las Vegas they use a calendar year CPI and you get that price increase the following July 1.
So therefore on July 1 of '10 we actually had to roll back our pricing by 0.4% which was the '09 CPI number.
And then what will happen this July 1 we'll get a price increase of 1.6% and that'll be your price increase for that marketplace starting July 1 of '11 through June 30 of '12 and then potentially we'll see that higher CPI pricing come into our numbers beginning July 1 of '12.
And Don you want to talk about open market pricing? Yes sure.
So remember in the other part of the business is open market and we have an internal process that we call RPM which is just basically taking those old market customers and we spread them across 12 months and we review and accordingly adjust those customer prices at least annually.
And so we had positive pricing across all lines of business in the quarter and pricing in that arena is going well for us.
And there's always pockets of pushback based on competitive behavior maybe locally or something along those lines but no really change in what it's been.
So we continue to review all of our pricing.
Every customer gets reviewed annually.
We continue to do that while we continue to defend our business and look for signs of life in the economy to grow our business.
So all in all I think the 1% pricing in the quarter was a pretty good number for us.
Got it.
And as my follow up maybe you mentioned some efficiency spend in the SG&amp;A number.
If you could talk a little bit about some of the areas that you see as offering maybe a little bit more near term promise in terms of cost takeout or productivity efficiency what have you.
Well we continue to gain productivity on the Collection side of the business in the labor and so forth with just improving routing more automation.
We've talked quite a bit about moving more of our residential fleet to automate it.
That's worked well for us.
On the SG&amp;A side we've got some additional resources deployed working on some of these cost programs like we've talked about our maintenance program our national account initiative and some of those things.
Right now we're probably again as Tod said having more cost than we are benefit.
We'll start to see some benefits in '12.
And by the end of '13 we'll see some real benefit from those programs but we're going to carry a little SG&amp;A between now and then.
Got it.
And our next question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Crédit Suisse.
First question is just on pricing.
What are you pricing your landfills at right now? And how aggressive can you be if you do see strong seasonality at the end of May? And is there any low margin business still in your portfolio that you need to get rid of post merger or that's done? Yes.
First remember that on the landfill side half of our landfill business actually a little more than that is index priced right.
I'm thinking specifically about the MSW because that's what really matters and we talk about overall pricing.
So half the business is index priced.
Those are tied to contracts.
They have term dates and they follow that kind of CPI mentality if you will most of that just like Ed just described.
So that's half.
The other half is open market a little less than that.
So we have -- those projects [ph] come up periodically throughout the year and we will continue to price those.
I think in MSW this year or the quarter we had a little better than 2% price on MSW.
We sort of would like to see that go a little higher.
We had a little bit of volume defection in a couple of markets in landfill where we moved price to competitive MSW haulers in the marketplace.
And we were not willing to give price concession so we lost a little volume there.
So we're going to continue to focus on the infrastructure and use the assets accordingly in the marketplace.
And just a follow up on...
I'm sorry.
Hamzah you asked about low margin work? Yes right.
We're through that.
I mean that's    we've    I think that was sort of a battle cry probably 2 or 3 years ago maybe probably 3 or 4 years ago now.
And I wouldn't sit here today and tell you that we have much of that if any.
We've done a very effective job of pricing the business of calling the business and I think it shows up in our margins.
All right.
And just a quick follow up on your acquisition pipeline.
You've mentioned recently you want to make a bigger portion into recycling.
Could you talk about what's in the pipeline there and how big you plan to get within that segment? Well what we've done    and the acquisition pipeline was bigger than just recycling.
We talked about recycling infrastructure.
We talked about some tuck in hauling acquisitions.
So we gave you that acquisition number and we also said that was probably primarily loaded toward the second half of the year before we started to see that.
So we said we'd close call it $75 million of revenue this year.
As it relates to recycling some of those projects are developmental project some would be acquisitions.
So we've identified what we think are 25 markets across our 240 marketplaces that we need to fill some gaps in recycling where we don't have quite enough capability to meet the demand of our customers.
And so we'll be looking to fill those gaps.
Some of those could be with existing facilities that we have that we just need to retrofit add capacity.
Some could be developing a whole new footprint or some could be an acquisition.
So that's baked in our numbers.
It's baked into our cash flow and I think we've said we'd spend $25 million or so this year on developing some of that recycling infrastructure.
Did I answer your question Hamzah? Yes that's great.
And our next question comes from Jon Ellis from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
First question.
I wanted to talk a little bit about your pricing for the year.
I think you mentioned in the first half you're expecting 1% core price second half 1.5% to 2%.
If my math is right about CPI and the escalator adjustments it would suggest that almost all the difference between the first and second half of the year in terms of your guidance is a function of basically resets on contracts tied to CPI.
Given that CPI is rising now and Don as you mentioned most of your open market contracts are resetting throughout the year why wouldn't we expect to see better open market pricing over the course of the year as well? Well you may.
And again one of the advantages Jonathan is with the way that we do pricing in those 12 buckets as I described as conditions change in the marketplace and as CPI ebbs and flows it does give us flexibility across that part of our portfolio.
So in the second half of the year where we're pricing those 6 buckets in those markets we could be pricing a little stronger there depending on the market activity.
Remember we've always said that we're looking to get that spread over and above true inflation.
And when our customers are seeing inflation in their business when they're a little more comfortable with their business activity they're a little less price sensitive the market behavior changes a little bit and it allows us a little more pricing strength.
So we will meter that accordingly as the markets allow us to in the second half and we'll wait and see.
Okay.
So is it more of a sort of culminating but it's fair to assume that your 1.5% to 2% we could [indiscernible] towards the high end of that range if CPI stays where it is right now.
Okay.
Second question just on fuel.
I'm trying to make sure I understand.
I'd always been under the impression that you're surcharge program although not covering 100% of your total fuel costs was intended to cover 100% of incremental fuel costs.
And it appears that there's an EPS drag.
So can you talk a little bit about the surcharge program? And then also there's been some discussion recently in the market about how some companies are offering out new business without fuel surcharges on those contracts.
Can you talk about whether you're seeing that in the market? Yes.
This is Tod.
I'll answer the first part.
Maybe Don can answer the market part.
First of all when you see fuel going up it tends to lag especially when you see a substantial ramp up in fuel.
We've got a 1 month lag in the surcharge.
So there's a little bit of an impact there that will stay with us for the full year unless it were to drop back down this year.
So I guess we'll wait and see on that.
In terms of our fuel surcharge we do not get all of it dollar for dollar.
Obviously it's about 2/3 that we get and we have obviously some franchise customers that are on that CPI based pricing so the fuel surcharge isn't there.
So we're not able to get the full dollar for dollar recovery.
The second answer to your question Jonathan we've always had that situation in the marketplace or where a smaller hauler might take the what I call the Southwest Airlines approach of Bags Fly Free no fees.
I think our customers are pretty smart folks.
I think they look at total cost to serve and that's what we try to sell our customers is there's a total cost to service.
We're not hiding behind our fees.
We look at our fuel recovery fee as the fairest way to deal with our customer base so that when fuel goes up it's a big part of our cost they share in that cost increase.
When fuel goes down they get the benefit.
And so it's a different sales approach than the guy who's selling no fees.
The difference is when fuel spikes that operator has to run around and bring more fuel price increases to the customer.
We're touching the customer once annually.
We've got the index working for us on fuel and we think it's the fairest way to approach the customer.
Remember we've got 150 million gallons of fuel a year and when fuel was up $0.50 we can't just kind of run around with our hair on fire trying to find $75 million.
So it works pretty well for us.
It's a built in hedge if you will and again I just think we're always going to have somebody out there trying to market it a different way.
We don't see that from bigger companies.
We generally see it from the smaller folks.
Great.
And our next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Don could you help us bridge the volume results in the quarter with the full year? I believe you had talked about flat to up modestly for the full year.
And then we have some headwinds I guess with special waste.
So given what happened in the quarter and we certainly appreciate you not trying to hide behind weather like others have but can you talk a little bit about what you foresee here on the volume side whether that's a better than initially planned on special waste or just in the core business? Yes.
Again we just gave you guys guidance like 9 weeks ago.
So we're on plan.
We're reaffirming the guidance including the volume guidance.
We may be a little further behind than we thought we would be at this point.
As I said there may be a little weather in there although we're not going to call it out.
We wait every year for this time of the year.
We're kind of coming in to May and looking for that seasonality jump.
And it's not May yet but as we do every year we look for that seasonality trend to work for us and kind of bridge us into the summer months and then carry us through into the late fall.
And we don't see anything today that's going to change that and we believe we'll come in on guidance as we said.
And we'll give you an update in more detail on the second quarter call.
Okay.
That's all I have.
And our next question is from Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
I guess first just a clarification do the recycling acquisitions fall under the $75 million that's been earmarked for bolt ons? Or is that a separate $25 million? No that would fall into acquisitions.
We put those as acquisitions yes.
Okay.
So the $75 million that's for bolt on acquisitions.
Anything you do on the recycling front is not under the umbrella of the $75 million that's been earmarked? It's separate? No.
I think what we've talked about on the earnings call that in our capital expenditures for this year we're about $20 million or $25 million for internal growth projects related to recycling meaning building out or improving our existing infrastructure.
And then we said there'd be $75 million to $100 million spent this year for just a broad category of acquisitions which would include picking up some third party assets as well as hauling assets or disposal or transfer station assets.
So the $75 million to $100 million to be spent on acquisitions was really any type of revenue.
And anything we would book as an acquisition would come out of that bucket.
When we talked about those 25 markets if we can buy something that's in the market that fits our need to fill that gap and we can buy it for the right price we would buy versus build just because of speed to market and so forth.
But if we're building it developing it ourselves it's coming out of that $25 million of CapEx.
Okay.
More near term on the SG&amp;A front.
Between now and the end of the year it sounds like recently SG&amp;A was up on the investments in the programs guidance for the full year has it down to 10% of sales so we'll need to see some sub 10% reading soon.
So does this imply at all that the programs you've been spending on are about to be completed? Or is it more just that the benefits start to outweigh the costs? Well I think if you look at the revenue trends through the year the second quarter and then the third quarter are the strongest quarters.
So just the math as a percentage of revenue it should come down.
The dollars may not come down appreciably although I would say we were working heavily on these projects late last year and the first part of this year.
But that's not the key driver of that metric.
It's probably more the revenue that's a key driver.
Yes that's right.
Okay.
And one follow up question on the cost side.
Could you just update us on the CNG initiative? How many trucks this year and next? And is this right now helping you to offset those higher fuel costs out there? Yes I think last year we spent about 20    was it 25% or so of our fleet buy was CNG about the same a little bit less this year.
It could change a little bit as we go through the year depending on certain contracts.
But we're not making a huge move there.
What we've done frankly is we've made investments in some of our larger fleets in the appropriate markets on the fueling station and on introducing CNG vehicles.
And we're going to this year basically fill out the routes in those facilities.
So by example if I had 100 truck facility last year I replaced 40 of the tracks to CNG and the other 60 are still diesel I built the CNG station.
This year we may go back in and basically replace those other 60 vehicles with CNG so we're getting the full benefit then of that investment of the CNG station.
Does that make sense? It does.
So that's what we're doing.
We've looked at -- we're right now creating our -- putting kind of finishing touches on our 5 year fleet plan that will really build out the next phases of automation and CNG investments and we'll talk about that sometime later in the year early next year.
Great.
Keep up the good work.
And our next question comes from Corey Greendale from First Analysis.
Don I was hoping I could ask you kind of a 30 000 foot view question just looking back on the...
I'm afraid of heights Corey.
All right.
Well then we'll go with 5 000 feet whatever it takes.
Go ahead.
Looking back on the integration and I know you've achieved and surpassed the synergy targets.
But could you just talk about in terms of culture and in terms of best practices to what extent would you say it is truly a homogenous company at this point? There is no legacy highlight in Republic anymore how much would you say there's still opportunities to kind of streamline the culture and share best practices among the various operations? Well I would say as far as from a social perspective I would tell you that I think we're operating as one company today and we've got a great deal of rapport and respect for each other and flying the same flag.
So one of the reasons this acquisition works so well is that we were very serious from the very beginning Jim and I and Tod and the rest of the team about putting together one team building the best of the best culture and we did that.
We spent a fair amount of time on the social issues and the culture through the process so that we did become one company very quickly.
So I'd be kidding myself if I said we've got 30 000 employees there's not somebody out there who would maybe rather fly a different flag today.
But I would say those are the exceptions and they're very very minor exceptions.
We have had regular meetings with our people.
We had our second annual general management conference here in February where we brought in all of our general managers and area teams and region teams from across the country.
We had our key decision makers from the corporate office there and we had close to 500 people in one room talking about the road map going forward what we've achieved and the plans and I'll tell you it was a pretty good vibe in the room and you could cut the excitement with a knife.
So from a culture perspective I would say we've done a great job bringing it together and I think everyone is pretty pumped up about where we go from here.
From a synergy perspective or best practice perspective there is talk about the parking lot as we put the synergy goals together we found some things that we'd like to do.
We just said that the company can only change so much at once.
And so we put them out in the parking lot.
We've been dusting some of those things off and looking at those things today and how we can continue to improve the business.
But none of them in and of themself are major needle movers but there are things that are worth $1 million things that are worth $0.5 million and we're going to continue to shave those pennies off of our cost and improve the way we go to market.
We're going to continue to build our service customer service experience and those kind of things.
So from here on out it's just improving on what we've built.
But I would tell you that the company flies one flag and is pretty excited about the future today.
And then I just had one housekeeping question which is it looks like the tax rate in Q1 came in a little lower than the 41.5% for the year that you had talked about.
What do you expect for the rest of the year? Yes we had some state tax benefits I think in the first quarter that caused that to come in probably just over 39%.
I think if you look at the full year tax rate the full year tax rate would be about 41% and subsequent quarters would be probably in the 41.5% range still maybe slightly less than that.
Great.
And our last question comes from Richard Skidmore of Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First could you just clarify your volume guidance? Does it include the impact of San Mateo and Toronto in terms of your I think you've kind of guided to flattish volume for 2011? Right.
In our opening call where we gave guidance we indicated that it excluded those 2 components.
So excluding those 2 components it's about 0% to 0.5% positive.
Okay.
And then can you comment on what you're seeing in the roll off business both your own roll off business and then third party in terms of volume trends because I'm trying to understand better when you might start to see operating leverage come through at the landfill.
Yes as we said we've seen sequential improvement in volume across all lines of business.
So every quarter our roll off volume has improved over the past 4 quarters and probably 5 quarters or 6 quarters.
So we've seen some positive activity in the industrial part of that roll off business and of course have seen no activity in the CNG part of that roll off business.
So from a third party perspective I think it's probably very similar.
We    obviously you're right.
I mean the volume comes back to the landfill it comes in at a very hard margin.
We get great operating leverage there and it's one of the great things about this business.
It might be one of the great things about the story is we've done such a great job managing cost out of the business as the volume declined and learned a lot about ourselves and our business and now we're going to use all that same hard work to manage our business on the way up.
And we will expect to see some operating leverage as volumes return but we don't control that right.
So we're just happy to see it when it occurs and we're getting our fair share.
So that's it in a nutshell.
Great.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Don Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you Jacqueline.
In closing I would like to thank the entire Republic team for a solid first quarter performance.
Our business remains strong our market fundamentals are solid and trends are improving.
As a reminder a recording of this call is available through May 5 2011 by calling (203) 369 3404.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings; our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables; and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
Thank you for spending time with us today.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Second Quarter Conference Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for this afternoon's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Holly.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our second quarter performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today’s call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is July 28 2011.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Based on our second quarter performance Republic Services is on track to achieve record levels of earnings and free cash flow.
Financial and operational highlights include: revenue of approximately $2.1 billion for the quarter total price growth in the quarter was 3.4% with core price of 1%.
We continue to utilize our ROI pricing tools to evaluate new opportunities and retain existing high return business.
We expect to achieve core price increases in the second half of this year in the range of 1% to 1.5%.
Volume has declined 1%.
Although the economy is recovering slowly we have 5 consecutive quarters of total collection volume improvement.
In fact industrial halls accelerated through the quarter and were year-over-year positive in both May and June.
We expect our total volume performance to be flat to slightly positive by year end.
Our second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.49.
I will update our 2011 financial guidance later in the call.
Our second quarter adjusted free cash flow was $162 million.
Republic's board has authorized a 10% increase in our quarterly dividend effective with the October dividend payment.
We repurchased 3.6 million shares in the second quarter for $115 million.
We are on track to complete the existing authorization before the end of 2011.
Since November 2010 we have repurchased over 10 million shares for approximately $30 million.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increase in cash returns for our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
Total cash returned for shareholders in the quarter was $191 million.
During the second quarter we issued $1.85 billion of long-term debt at lower rates than maturing in call debt.
We also renewed our bank facility for 5 years with no increase in the effective rate.
We continue to take advantage of the low-rate environment to extend maturities and lower interest expense.
We closed on $10 million in annual revenue from privatization contracts including the City of Toledo which we start servicing in the third quarter.
We have a pipeline of quality acquisition opportunities.
During 2011 we have closed on transactions involving private companies that will improve our operating density and landfill volumes.
These transactions will expand our EBITDA margins and return on invested capital.
Our field organization continues to target profitable growth and effectively manage our cost structure.
We saw an 80 basis point improvement in our commercial collection volumes and industrial collection is flat year-over-year.
All controllable operating costs were either flat or decreased as a percentage of revenue.
SG&amp;A was 9.6% which represents a 20 basis point improvement.
Our safety performance continues to improve with our frequency rate down 13% year-over-year.
I would like to thank our field operations for their continued success in executing our strategy of achieving profitable growth and maintaining a safe work environment for all of our people.
Tod and Ed will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
Our second quarter 2011 revenue as Don indicated was approximately $2.1 billion.
The change in revenue from the prior period includes the following: core price growth of positive 1%; second quarter price was in line with first quarter and also with our second quarter expectations; all lines of business as Don indicated report positive price; commercial and industrial were about positive 1% with residential somewhat lower due to the continued lagging impact of prior year's CPI.
Landfill MSW price was positive 2.3% a slight improvement from the first quarter.
Within that component of our business our third-party open market landfill customers where we are increasing price in the range of 4% to 5%.
As I noted second quarter price was in line with our expectations.
Since our price on index-based contracts tends to lag we're still impacted by lower CPI environments from 2009 and 2010 which had not fully anniversary-ed.
Given the current CPI environment we expect index-based pricing to modestly improve in the second half of 2010 with further improvement throughout 2012 and into '13.
Now let's talk about our commodity revenue increase of 1.3%.
Commodity prices increased 22% to an average price of $147 per ton in the current quarter from $120 per ton in the prior year.
Second quarter recycling facility commodity volumes of 526 000 tons was up 13% from the prior year and up 7% on a same-store basis.
Our updated guidance assumes commodity prices remain at June levels for the remainder of the year.
Also our fuel recovery fee increased by 1.1% due to higher diesel prices.
The increase in fuel recovery fees relates again to an increase in fuel costs the average price per gallon of diesel increased to $4.01 in the second quarter of 2011 from $3.03 in the prior year or an increase of 33%.
Currently the price of fuel is $3.95 per gallon.
And again our updated guidance assumes fuel prices will remain at June levels for the remainder of the year.
Turning to our volumes.
Our volumes were down 1% year-over-year.
We do continue to see volume improvements in the collection lines of business.
Second quarter collection volume improved 30 basis points over the first quarter.
Industrial volume is now flat year-over-year and commercial volumes are only slightly negative.
Landfill and transfer volumes were down 1.8% versus the prior year.
This decline is due to year-over-year unfavorable MSW volume along with less positive volume contribution from special waste than what we saw in the first quarter.
Although second quarter MSW volume was negative it has improved sequentially versus the first quarter by 210 basis points and is now in the low single-digit range on a year-over-year basis.
And our second quarter special waste volume increased 2% versus a very strong prior-year comparison.
We do believe that our 2011 volumes for special waste will replace or slightly exceed the volumes we received for the full year of 2010.
Turning our attention to second quarter year-over-year margins.
Second quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA margin was 31.1% compared to 31.3% in the prior year a 20 basis point decline.
The impact of fuel cost increases partially offset by an increase in related fuel recovery fee revenue resulted in a net decrease in EBITDA margin of 80 basis points.
Excluding this net impact of fuel our margins actually would have increased 60 basis points and would have been 31.9% over the prior year.
If fuel prices remain at current levels we will continue to have a slight margin headwind for the balance of the year.
Other significant changes to margins include labor and related benefits.
We have a 20 basis points improvement and that relates to productivity gains in all collection lines of business.
Our transfer and disposal costs we saw a 40 basis points improvement and this relates to decreased external disposal expense.
This decrease is primarily due to our decision to divest the 3 New York City transfer stations which had significantly lower disposal internalization than our average.
Turning to transportation and subcontract expenses we saw a 50 basis points improvement from redirecting waste streams within our transfer and disposal network and also less transportation expense as a result of the exploration of our City of Toronto contract.
While there's a significant favorable margin impact to this line item the net impact to total margin is flat as the contract was at our total company margins.
An additional favorable impact is due to the transportation cost reductions associated with the divestiture of the New York City transfer stations that I've previously mentioned.
Our landfill operating costs we saw a 30 basis point improvement and this relates to lower landfill gas management costs.
The cost decrease was due to ending a subcontract relationship at several sites and taking the workflow more effectively internally.
Our risk management costs the 20 basis point improvement here relates to reductions in premiums charged by third-party carriers as well as an improvement in our claims experience.
I would also add and remind everybody that we do a quarterly actuarial review.
So we're not averaging our risk management costs throughout the year and guessing it.
We actually know what it is from an actuarial standpoint.
Next our recycling cost of goods sold.
The unfavorable 60 basis points increase in expense relates to increased rebates to customers for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold at our recycling facilities increased to an average of $48 per ton from $38 in the prior year.
Commodity revenue increases more than offset this increase in cost and thus resulted in an increased spread of approximately $16 per ton.
The net impact was a favorable 40 basis points improvement in EBITDA margin.
And finally SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A expense as Don indicated was 9.6% of revenue.
Now this compares to 9.8% in the prior year excluding the cost to achieve synergies in the prior year.
The 20 basis point improvement relates primarily to the leverage benefit of holding our SG&amp;A dollars flat while having an increased overall revenue base.
Republic remains very comfortable with SG&amp;A expense of about 10%.
And I would remind people this includes 20 to 30 basis points of investments on an ongoing basis in our major initiatives.
Turning to DD&amp;A.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 10.9% in the current year versus 11.3% in the prior year.
The 40 basis point improvement primarily relates to reductions in landfill amortization expense as a result of expansions approved during the quarter.
DD&amp;A is higher-than-capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles resulting from the merger in 19 -- in 2008.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ed.
He's going to discuss interest expense free cash flow and our balance sheet.
Thanks Tod.
Q2 2011 interest expense of $111 million includes $18 million of noncash amortization.
As we continue to refinance our debt the portion related to the allied debt discount of $5 million will decline.
On May 2 Republic issued $1.85 billion of long-term debt to refinance existing maturities.
The newly issued debt consists of: $700 million at 3.8% due in 2018; $550 million at 4.75% due in 2023; and $600 million at 5.7% due in 2041.
In addition to the 2011 maturities we retired the following existing debt: we called $600 million of Allied Waste North American notes due in 2016 that had a coupon of 7% and an 8%; we tendered $59 million of BFI debentures due in 2021 that had a 9.25% coupon; and $183 million of BFI debentures due in 2035 that had a coupon of 7.4%.
Our EPS guidance provided in February included the favorable impact of refinancing this debt but excluded any premiums paid or debt discounts written off in connection with early extinguishments.
Our annual run rate interest expense after the refinancing is approximately $430 million of which $70 million is noncash.
Our refinancing activities since December of 2008 which have benefited from our investment grade status and a low-rate environment have reduced annual interest expense by approximately $185 million.
We will have additional refinancing opportunities in 2012.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Second quarter adjusted free cash flow was $162 million which consisted of: cash provided by operating activities of $362 million less property and equipment received of $219 million plus proceeds from the sale of property of $9 million plus merger-related expenditures net of tax of $1 million plus divestiture-related tax payments of $9 million.
Therefore adjusted free cash flow is $162 million.
Now I'll talk about the balance sheet.
At June 30 our accounts receivable balance was $872 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7.3 billion at June 30 and excess credit availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.6 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Before we get to Q&amp;A.
I would like to update our guidance for 2011.
We are reaffirming our adjusted EPS guidance of $1.86 to $1.89.
This reflects earnings growth of approximately 10% compared to 2010.
We expect adjusted free cash flow will be $875 million to $900 million.
We are maintaining this guidance although we are increasing capital spending to take advantage of bonus depreciation.
This increase is primarily a pull forward of 2012 truck capital.
At our next board meeting in October we expect our board will approve a new share repurchase authorization for 2012.
At this time operator I would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
This is Chris Parkinson on behalf of Hamzah.
Just very quickly on the pricing front can you comment on what you see in terms of rollbacks and any further price discounting by regional players that you maybe didn't see in the first quarter? And then also how do you think about pricing on a sequential basis in the back half? Yes.
I'll let Tod take the second half of that question on the sequential price for the second half.
This is Don by the way.
We have -- since we talked about it on the first quarter call we are seeing some pressure on the municipal contracts that are rolling through.
We have done some surprise rollbacks some reextensions of business and flat  rates to extend that business going forward.
We have been taking a very strong approach in protecting our current business.
And when competitors are calling we're fiercely defending that business.
We've got a great business with good strong margins and cash flow.
So job one of Republic is to protect the cash flow we have and then grow the cash flow from there.
So we have seen some competitive activity out there.
It's probably not too unusual based on the fact that the economy has been -- has long and deep and a downward trend that it's been.
So we've -- we're holding our own.
And we think there are better days ahead.
As far as pricing goes we're still in the marketplace every month effectively pricing our open market business.
As Tod said in his comments our open market MSW price and the landfill is 4 -- between 4% and 5% in the quarter.
So we're very actively in the market every month in the open market raising prices and very effectively defending our business accordingly.
Yes.
On the second half well I would add to Don that if we look at our collection business all lines of our collection business on a unit basis our revenue per unit is up.
And as Don indicated we're protecting both existing business and keeping it at good returns.
And the business that we acquire is also at good returns.
As Don said earlier we're using our ROI pricing model.
If we look at the first half of the year our pricing was about 1%.
If we look at the second half of the year what we're saying today is there will be a modest step-up in pricing and we believe it's in the range of 1% to 1.5%.
This is primarily coming from the higher CPI environment the anniversary-ing of lower CPI from prior years.
So as we look ahead to '12 we would expect to see further step-ups to the CPI and it's just inherent in our base of business.
Perfect.
And then also on the volume front could you just quickly remind us on any areas where you're seeing greater-than-expected volume losses? And whether or not you're seeing others gaining share? Or is it largely economic driven? And then also if there's any weather impact during the quarter? I think that was 3 questions.
Sorry my apologies.
That's fine.
Yes I don't know that I would name any one area that we're losing share in a great pace or any one person.
We think that the larger companies tend to be more active in the pricing environment trying to increase the returns of their business.
We've seen more activity frankly from some of the small haulers who are maybe living for today or are looking for an exit strategy at some point in the business.
So that's probably not much different than it's been historically in the waste business.
But you have had an economic downturn here that's lasted very long and you don't see any organic growth in the market really happening and that causes some strange behavior at times.
But we'll weather this storm and we'll continue to price and we'll see our way through it.
And to your question first of all weather there really is no weather impact for us.
I mean there's been events that have occurred whether it's flooding or tornadoes but net-net it really hasn't impacted our business much one way or another.
I think it kind of comes back to what Don talked about with the economy being weak for so long.
The next question I'm showing comes from Scott Levine with JP Morgan.
So I'm looking at the assumptions behind the guidance you initially provided in February.
I mean it looks like price you guys are looking at 1% to 1.5% for the year it's kind of coming in line maybe towards the lower end but within the range.
Obviously recycle commodities are doing better than you guys initially expected.
And you guys are initially looking at volumes being flat to slightly up.
Should we assume after the first half of the year that it's a bit lower? Maybe you can comment with regard to your views on how the macro side of things has played out in the second quarter.
Yes.
So we're still looking for volumes to be flat to slightly up.
As we said pricing maybe like you said a little softer but still in the range.
And then as far as the economy goes a bright spot as I said in my notes.
It's 5 sequential quarters of volume improvement in the collection lines of business.
So we're creeping forward in the right direction maybe not as fast as we'd hoped at first but directionally we're still good.
And then a bright spot for us in Q2 was we gained some speed through the quarter of -- in the roll-off halls and units.
And so May was a little softer.
And then we kind of picked up some speed in June there.
So it -- we're looking at that to hold up for us.
We saw probably geographically a little more improvement in the south part of our company than maybe we'd expected because for so long the south and the west had been weaker than the Midwest and in the east.
The south is making a little bit comeback there.
Scott I would add when you look at a price and the volume side of the equation the net result of what's happening there shows up in the margins.
We've got strong margins.
If it weren't for fuel we would probably be at or above our target now.
You could also maybe net against that commodity prices.
But we're basically on track with where we thought we would be from a margin standpoint which I think indicates that the other components of pricing and volume components of our business while it's a tough economy are still pretty good.
Yes and that we've got a great operating team.
They're out there really doing a great job controlling unit costs and getting productivity.
So we're holding up pretty well.
Got it.
Maybe to follow up on fuel Tod now that you mentioned that.
Can you remind us whether you have any hedges on or whether your thoughts are maybe in terms of hedging out some of that exposure with synergy prices remaining as high as they are? Scott this is Ed.
We have a small amount of our fuel hedged in for '11 and '12 but it's less than 5% of our total exposure.
And the average rate that we have for the hedge this year is $3.66.
It's a little bit lower than that for the small amount we have hedged in '12.
We are looking at the energy markets but unfortunately given almost this day-to-day volatility in the pricing it puts a -- makes some of the cost of the hedging fairly expensive as far as the -- how it gets priced out because of the market volatility.
But it is something we continue to look at and we will try to be opportunistic if there is an opportunity for further hedging for '12 and '13.
And in the meantime this recovered fee works pretty well for us we talked about before as a natural hedge.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
First the easy question I guess in my view.
On special volumes could you talk about -- last year I may have missed what the event was and then if it was also a part of the Gulf or -- and then this year what are you seeing in terms of special volumes that may be helping to drive...
Yes we really don't have much from the Gulf issue last year in special waste.
And we did a couple of big jobs.
We talked about the military base job in the West Coast the pesticide contaminated soil then a large regulatory clean-up in.
.
.
We had a refinery in the Midwest in the second quarter also in the Central region.
That's right.
Al if you were to look at last year's special waste volumes our second quarter we had kind of a peak in special waste volume activity in the second quarter of last year.
And then we had another -- and this was because of a refinery cleanup project in the Midwest I think.
And then there were some other -- the other things that Don mentioned on the West Coast were also a factor.
And then in the fourth quarter we had an even larger peak and that was due to the Camp Pendleton in Southern California and Tronics which was a clean-up EPA-mandated in Las Vegas.
So as we look at our volumes this year I think the difference is we believe we will meet or exceed the total volumes for last year but we're doing it with a broader base of smaller jobs which is actually a good thing.
It shows maybe the purse strings are loosening up a little bit with some of these companies for some discretionary spending.
Right.
Al you know that special waste volumes by quarter always very lumpy.
So you've got to walk through that as Tod did.
We feel pretty strong about the volume side of things and pricing is holding up well in special waste.
So that does bode well for the economy we think.
Right okay.
And then my follow-up if I may Don.
Given now the so-called honeymoon's over 6 months into it I was wondering if you could just maybe take a step back and give us an update on the CEO chair there and specifically maybe some of the markets you're doing your multiyear plan on? And how you're feeling about some of these goals you've set out trying to stay away from the quarterly numbers for a second.
Yes well we feel really good about the goals for the year.
We feel good about some of the major initiatives that we set out.
A couple of them are maybe moving a little slower than we'd like.
We're just as committed to them as we've been I think they have real value.
The organization is operating very well.
The team we've got a top-quality team here.
So all things are go and I'm actually feeling pretty good about it.
So I didn't know the honeymoon was over yet.
Could you comment about maybe the industry segment of recycling and how you are evaluating that? Have you made any decisions in terms of whether you're accelerating or just progressing as prices remain high here at a couple of the...
So what I would tell everyone is when we think about our company it's 243 marketplaces.
Yes we're in 40 states in Puerto Rico.
And we're organizing 4 regions 28 areas.
But what's really important about the business is the 243 markets are all uniquely different.
And so when we think about how we're going to improve the business on a day-to-day operating side we think about how we do maintenance or how we do safety or how we move toward automation.
Those things are very similar everywhere across those 243 markets.
But when you think about how we invest and grow the business those markets are very uniquely different and they're different because they're different competitors different asset structure different market dynamics different regulations and so forth.
So as it relates to recycling when we talk about the investments we're making in recycling they're not everywhere because the tons aren't moving in the same way everywhere.
So what we've done the team's done here is evaluated 243 markets.
We've identified 25 markets about 10%.
And we think we need to develop more capability in in and around recycling because we think the market would benefit and the customers are willing to pay for recycling.
They're interested in recycling so there's some customer demand.
So what we've done in our original plan this year is we set aside about $25 million to invest in about 5 markets to begin to move that business forward.
And we may by the end of the year invest a little more than $25 million.
But we're doing it very very very cautiously if you will making sure that we're learning along the way in how we're going to do with it best.
And we've prioritized the markets accordingly.
So we're excited about it the team's actively involved in it.
And we're convinced that in some of those markets the ton is evolving and there is more recycling and diversion possible.
It's not happening very rapidly but it's important for us to be in that space.
And so we're trying to bring all the solutions we need due to our customers through that.
So I have a long answer to your question but we're engaged in it.
We're excited about it and it's right smack in the core of what we do.
We look at it like we own the waste stream today and we want to own it tomorrow even as it changes.
Michael Hoffman with WSI.
We'll be looking for the book signing on how to run a garbage company.
On the free cash flow just so I'm clear the $875 million to $900 million I realized is just what you gave before but the language of excluding legacy tax benefits what do you think the upside is from that in the remainder of the year? And on that gain there's a fair amount of working capital use in the first half that swings to the second half.
Where's the flexion up in the model and the cash from op side that would create some upside to this outlook on free cash flow? Well again we're comfortable with the $875 million to  $900 million and there's 2 offsetting items.
We've got a greater capital spend because we're pulling forward some of the capital to capture bonus depreciation.
There's a tax shelter associated with that.
Also we closed out some of our open tax issues.
And so we're going to get a favorable benefit from our cash taxes.
So those 2 are kind of neutral.
So even though CapEx is going up the cash tax is going to offset that.
You asked about the first quarter working capital.
Typically what happens is we end up with a fair bit of capital spend at the end of the year which moves up our accounts payable.
So you'll see a reversal from the first half to the second half of the year working capital and we're very very comfortable with the cash flow guidance we've given staying within that range despite the fact that we're going to spend a little bit more this year with the pull-forward truck capital.
Okay.
And then the second question.
So interest rates probably never be as low as they are today probably in our business lifetimes.
And the group has other public companies but has underperformed.
And there's some pretty cheap valuations out there.
Is there another big transaction in Republic's horizon? Yes.
Michael we look at everything that's out there large and small.
And we're doing a great job today having successfully integrated 2 very large successful companies.
We're very proud of the team and their ability.
They're very good at what they do.
And again I think people would tell you that a lot of folks thought it could be done.
I think we've really shined in the process so we know we can integrate businesses.
And we're doing a good job today on tuck-ins and bolt-ons.
For a long time there we were busy integrating the big business.
And now we're reengaged out there in small tuck-ins and we're pretty excited about our area of presence are bubbling up some really good local opportunities so we can fill out some of the sort of the missing pieces if you will in various markets.
And so we're always open to ideas and looking at anything that's out in the market that fits our profile.
Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Question.
First Scott Levine actually asked this question but I wanted just to clarify the answer.
Do you still think that for the full year volume will be at least flat? Full year I think because of where we were in the first half of the year the full year number would be slightly negative.
But the second half again we think we're going to exit the year positive.
Exit speed is important here so we're moving through the year and I think we're setting ourselves up a pretty good spot for '12.
Understand.
The second question I had is I understand in terms of incremental returns that you're doing exactly the -- what makes sense in terms of pricing.
From a bigger picture perspective I think there's been this thought that the -- just taking kind of a big picture view that from a gain theory perspective that if you start to see larger companies be more aggressive in pricing downward that that's kind of obliges others to do the same and you wind up in more of an aggressive negative pricing spiral.
So can you just speak philosophically about why you think we're not at the beginning stages of something like that occurring again? Yes I will talk to you about that.
First take a look -- I'll just remind you.
Look at our EBITDA margins 31-plus percent.
So I think that reflects a lot of things about our company.
One certainly the asset base we have and operating capability of our people but we watch very keenly pricing and the return on our business.
And so we're pretty proud of that margin.
And I think there's some folks who'd like to have that.
As far as pricing goes again there is no organic growth in the marketplace.
And so when you took your first economics class in high school it's kind of supply/demand and you get that right? It's been really long really deep.
So some of the smaller folks out there in the marketplace get a little twitchy and they start doing some silly things.
And you can only stand by and watch it for so long.
There's a couple of things going on simultaneously at Republic Services and we've talked about this before.
First we are steadily consistently continuously pricing our business.
So in the open market we are every month in the market pricing our business in all lines of business in the open market in every geography in the company.
And we call it ratable pricing.
And we go through the year constantly through levering up and down if you will depending on the market dynamic but pricing consistently in the marketplace.
So we haven't stopped that practice.
When -- sometime last year we started talking about defending the business more staunchly and we had the team out there using ROI tools knowing what our cash costs are and defending a very good business space.
So we might have been more willing to walk away from this business 2 years before that.
And then we start to defend business say business at a lower rate in some cases.
It's going to show up on our price metric.
We didn't lose the volume we keep the volume at a lower price per unit even though it's profitable and there's good cash flow associated with it.
As an owner of our business you want us to do that.
You want us to protect that cash flow and we do it very well probably better than we ever have.
But that's going to show up in what we report as price right Cory? So the third thing we're doing out there is we're selling right? And we're out there in the marketplace and we're looking for new opportunities as well.
And we may -- we're going to compete vigorously with everybody in the marketplace just like we always have.
And there are some markets where we're losing share to 1 or 2 smaller competitors and we may be more aggressive in a couple of those cases because we can't just stand idly by.
So we have not changed our pricing strategy or focus.
We have not changed our return focus but we're simultaneously pricing saving business and competing in the marketplace.
Now when you do all the math of all the mix by type and line of business and geography and the saving and the churn that's putting some pressure on the price metric.
But the activity and the philosophy and the strategy has not changed.
But there's a lot of mix and math that caused those numbers to be what they are.
Now full circle back to the first statement I made: look at 31% EBITDA margin.
That shows you that we're focused at doing the right things.
Every so often we make a mistake and we maybe -- we may have some bad facts and maybe get a little lower here or there.
Every so often some other company does that.
No different than it's ever been but we're -- we haven't changed our tune.
To the concern that you stated I don't think we see a dramatic shift in the marketplace at all.
We view the marketplace as being fairly stable.
It's just a question of a long slow flat economy.
Yes I understand that.
And I'm sure you said all that before but I still think it's helpful to hear it again.
Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Just quickly on -- Tod I think you mentioned the landfill lines are down 1.8%.
Does that exclude Toronto do you know? Yes that would exclude Toronto.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned some color on regional via roll-off and the South was doing better.
I was just curious on some other markets like California something that has been probably more down or if any of those are getting kind of less bad if you will as you move through the quarter? Yes we're getting -- I'll use your term Bill we're getting less bad everywhere as it relates to volume.
So it's a broad brush.
I just highlighted the South because they've probably picked up a little bit quicker than the other 3.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And just actually quickly do you have -- if that has a tax rate or something for the second half that moves around a little bit? Yes we're expecting our second half effective tax rate to be approximately 41%.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Don Slager for his closing remarks.
In closing thanks operator.
I would like to thank the entire Republic team for their efforts and resulting performance in the second quarter.
We remain as always focused on the business fundamentals required for our continued success.
As a reminder a recording of this call is available through August 5 2011 by calling (203) 369-1018.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
Thanks everyone for spending time with us today.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Third Quarter Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your host for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our third quarter performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today’s call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that would cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is October 27 2011.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Based on our third quarter performance Republic Services is on track to achieve the earnings and cash flow guidance provided earlier this year.
Financial and operational highlights include: Revenue of approximately $2.1 billion for the quarter; total price growth in the quarter was 3.6% with core price of a 0.7%; our MSW landfill price was up by 3% which is an improvement from Q2 levels; Q3 had positive volume growth this is the ninth consecutive quarter of collection volume improvement; our third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.53 and $1.43 year-to-date; our third quarter adjusted free cash flow was $266 million; we repurchased 6 million shares in the third quarter for $167 million.
During the past 12 months we have repurchased 16 million shares or 4% of our stock for $470 million.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our shareholders through repurchase and dividends.
Total cash returned to the shareholders in the quarter was $242 million and $657 million year-to-date.
We continue to be successful in retaining a high percentage of our existing contracts and have secured a number of new contracts that will improve our performance in 2012.
During the third quarter we started a new contract that privatized a residential collection operations of Toledo Ohio.
Privatization continues to be a source of revenue growth and assist municipalities with allocation of financial resources.
Additionally we will begin servicing a number of new contracts during 2012 including San Jose and Fresno California and Hernando County in Florida.
Our field organization continues to target profitable growth and effectively manage our cost structure.
We saw a 20-basis-point sequential improvement in our collection volumes.
Our industrial collection volumes are now positive on a year-over-year basis.
Our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue improved by 50 basis points after adjusting for the net impact of higher fuel.
SG&amp;A expense was 9.8%.
We have increased the automated portion of our residential fleet by 15% this year.
58% of our residential fleet is now automated which is already ahead of our full goal.
Our safety performance continues to improve with our frequency rate down 7% year-over-year.
I would like to thank our field operations for their continued success in executing our strategy of achieving profitable growth controlling costs and maintaining a safe work environment for our people.
Tod will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
Third quarter 2011 revenue was approximately $2.1 billion a $55 million increase in the third quarter reflects internal growth which totaled approximately 2.5%.
This is the highest level reported since 2008.
The change in revenue from prior periods includes the following key components: Core price growth of 0.7%.
Our commercial and industrial price were on average up about 1% with residential remaining more competitive due to municipal and franchise contract pricing environment and the lagging impact of prior year's CPI.
Since our price on an index-based contract tends to lag we are impacted by the lower CPI environment of 2010 which is not fully anniversaried.
Given the current CPI environment we expect index-based pricing to modestly improve in the second half of 2012.
Our landfill MSW price as Don indicated was about 3% a slight improvement from the second quarter.
Within that component of our business our third-party open market landfill customers where we are increasing prices in the range of 4% to 5%.
Second is our fuel recovery fee which increased by 1.2%.
This increase in fuel recovery fee relates to an increase in fuel costs.
The average price per gallon of diesel increased to $3.87 in the third quarter from $2.94 in the prior year a 32% increase.
Currently the price of fuel is $3.83 per gallon.
We are assuming that fuel prices remain at this level for the remainder of the year.
And the third key component is commodity revenue increase of 1.7%.
Commodity prices increased 36% to an average price of $160 per ton in the third quarter or $118 per ton in prior year.
Third quarter recycling facility commodity volume of 492 000 tons was up 8% from the prior year and up 2% on a same-store basis.
In mid-October export commodity prices declined.
At current prices our fourth quarter weighted average price is expected to decline from third quarter levels by about $20 per ton.
This would negatively impact fourth quarter earnings by about $0.01 to $0.015 on an EPS basis which includes the benefit of reduced cost of goods sold.
Turning to our volumes our volumes were positive 30 basis points year-over-year.
We continue to see volume improvements in the collection lines of business.
Again as Don mentioned this is the ninth straight quarter of sequential improvement.
Q3 collection volume of negative 0.4 improved 20 basis points over Q2 levels.
Industrial volume is now positive year-over-year and commercial volume is only slightly negative.
Our disposal volumes consisting of landfill and transfer activity were up 2.8% from the prior year.
This increase is due to year-over-year favorable special waste and C&amp;D volumes.
Looking forward we expect collection volumes to continue to improve.
Disposal volumes will be negative due to high levels of special waste in the fourth quarter of 2010 giving us therefore a difficult year-over-year comp in the fourth quarter of 2011.
So in total we expect fourth quarter volumes to be flat to slightly negative.
Now I'll discuss our third quarter year-over-year margin.
Third quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA margin was 30.7% compared to 30.8% in the prior year a 10-basis-point decline.
The impact of fuel cost increases partially offset by an increase in related fuel recovery fee revenue resulted in a net decrease and EBITDA margin of 60 basis points.
Excluding the net impact of fuel our margins would have been 31.3% or a 50-basis-point expansion from the prior year.
Other significant changes in the margin include labor and labor-related benefits.
We saw an 80-basis-point improvement primarily relating to labor productivity gains in the collection business.
As Don mentioned this includes the benefit of our fleet automation.
Transfer and disposal costs there was 50-basis-point improvement which relates to decreased external disposal expense.
The decrease was primarily due to our decision to divest a 3 New York City transfer stations which had higher than the average disposal costs.
Our transportation and subcontract expenses we saw a 20-basis-point improvement which results from redirecting waste streams within our transfer and disposal network and less transportation expense as a result of the expiration of our City of Toronto contract in December of last year.
While there is a favorable margin impact to this line item the net impact to total margin is flat as the contract was at our total company margins.
This benefit was partially offset by an unfavorable incremental surcharge from transportation providers due to increased fuel surcharges.
Our risk management we saw a 60-basis-point improvement relating to reductions in insurance premiums as well as the continued improvement in our claims experience as Don mentioned.
Next is our recycling cost of goods sold.
Here we saw an unfavorable 80-basis-point increase in expense which relates to increased rebates to customers for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold at our recycling facilities increased to an average of $55 per ton from $35 in the prior year.
Commodity revenue increases more than offset this increase in costs and resulted in an increased spread of approximately $22 per ton.
The net impact was a favorable 50-basis-point improvement in EBITDA margin.
Finally SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A expense was 9.8% of revenue which was flat with the prior year excluding costs to achieve synergies in the prior year.
We remain comfortable with our full year SG&amp;A expense at approximately 10% which includes 20 to 30 basis points of investment in our major initiatives.
Our DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.1% in the current year versus 11.2% in the prior year.
The 10-basis-point improvement primarily relates to reductions in landfill amortization expense as a result of expansion secured during the quarter.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles resulting from our 2008 mergers.
Now Ed will discuss interest expense our taxes and our free cash flow.
Thanks Tod.
Third quarter 2011 interest expense of $108 million includes $18 million of noncash amortization.
As we continue to refinance our debt a portion related to the Allied debt discount of $3 million will decline.
Our effective tax rate includes a $0.04 benefit resulting from the normal process of reconciling our provision to our 2010 tax return which was filed in September.
Excluding the benefit realized in the quarter our adjusted tax rate was about 40.5%.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Third quarter adjusted free cash flow is $266 million which consisted of cash provided of -- by operating activities of $490 million -- $491 million less property and equipment received of $214 million plus proceeds from the sale of property of $7 million plus divestiture-related tax payments of $6 million less cash tax benefit from debt extinguishment of $24 million.
Therefore the adjusted free cash flow was $266 million.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow is $701 million and we remain comfortable with our full year guidance range of $875 million to $900 million.
At September 30 our accounts receivable balance was $901 million and our days sales outstanding was 39 days or 26 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at September 30 and excess credit availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.5 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Before moving to Q&amp;A I'd like to make a few comments on our performance.
Although core price was below our expectations we continued to raise price and achieve productivity gains which resulted in an improvement in our controllable costs as a percentage of revenue.
If you adjust our EBITDA margins for the net impact of fuel we would have seen a 50-basis-point improvement in the third quarter.
We have reached the point in our volume performance where we are through the trough created by the recession and expect that 2012 will have positive volume growth on a full year basis.
We have completed the balance sheet restructuring process and have locked in a low cost of capital with no debt maturities for the next 6 years.
We are focused on investing in our core business to expand our market capabilities and generate higher returns and cash flow.
Our investors will continue to benefit from our commitment to cash total cash returns through share repurchase and dividends.
At this time operator I'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on pricing.
Could you give a little more color on 2 items related to price? One is what is the residential price running at? I assume it's well below 1%.
And any color on how competitive that is your negotiations with municipalities there? And when does that get begin to get better? And then secondly could you remind us the CPI impact related to price? What the reset is for the second half of this year and what the reset is for next year? And how much of your business resets? Just if you could walk us through those 2 items? Sure Hamzah.
This is Don.
And I'll let Tod follow me with some information on CPI.
As you know half of our business is index-based good portion of that is coming from the municipal sector both in our collection and landfill lines of business.
We have seen a little more attention given to the municipalities on business extensions as it relates to price this year and in the quarter than we first anticipated.
Having said that the team's doing a great job of still extending the business.
As I've said to you before job one is to protect the cash flow and job two is to grow it.
So we're doing a great job of getting business extended.
Although as we said before this are private/public partnerships that we've enjoyed for a long time.
And as these municipalities have been through this tough economy they have looked for a little bit price relief.
So we've given back a little price there in extending the business through quarter.
But we think that frankly as we said in our comments on the volume we've come through the volume trough and we're looking at positive volume in '12.
Only a portion of our residential business renews every year or terminates every year through contracts.
So as we work through this process we think we're kind of at the bottom working our way out.
So overall we've seen still pretty good rational behavior in the marketplace on the residential business but some of the municipalities as you know have been suffering with their tax base.
But all-in-all and you can look at the margin you can see the cash flow generation.
We're doing a good job on costs and we're going to continue to be strong on pricing in the marketplace.
And Hamzah on your second question if I understood correctly kind of that restricted headline price was about 1.3% currently.
So we're getting something that's really pretty close to what the CPI had been on a trailing basis.
And then as we look ahead to next year we're expecting that 2011 CPI to be some place in the 3% range.
And so what's detracting from that was really what Don was describing which is some rollbacks with some municipalities to keep the work and work with them on a long-term basis and then some churn with -- maybe we're securing some new business at good returns at current market rate but certainly somewhat less than what we might have seen with bids that we've made 5 or 6 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And as a follow-up question.
As you guys think about the free cash you're generating it seems like you've bought back 4% of your shares.
Do you -- what can we expect on buybacks over the next 12 months or looking to next year? Is 4% to 6% what we can expect out of you? How do you think about that? I realize you're going to be opportunistic in that process but what can investors assume on a buyback? Yes Hamzah.
In August there when the market dropped off the Board came out with an authorization for $750 million of additional share repurchase because we were burning through the previous $400 million repurchase.
So at September 30 we actually purchased $72 million out of that $750 million authorization.
And October 1 we're sitting with $678 million available.
And I think investors need to look at our past behavior which is to complete that repurchase on an opportunistic basis over the time frame that we've described which is really into the next 26 months.
Yes.
And remember Hamzah that $750 million authorization was 2 years over a 2-year period.
And we as Tod said our track record is kind of a 3% to 4% a year.
We're being opportunistic so it gives us flexibility to do what we need to do.
And as Don said earlier we're committed to -- obviously we're committed to investing in the business both from an internal standpoint and with some acquisitions.
But certainly our dividend which has a yield of over 3% and then that share repurchase gives the owners a consistent cash yield both direct and indirect that share repurchase at somewhere in that 6.5% 7% range.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Security.
Research Division</strong> Don just to push a little bit on this core price with the business extensions et cetera is it fair to say that this will be moderately lower in '12 and '13 given these are multi-year contract adjustments if you will? Or is it just very much short-term period in defending the volume? Let's start with again only a portion of that business reaches term every year.
So we go through a portion of that book of business every year.
We think certainly a lot of it's driven by the economic conditions that the municipalities are living within.
It's not -- it's as I said we're kind of coming through the trough now.
We've got the volume declines behind us.
We're looking at positive growth for next year.
So we think we'll be in a better environment next year from that perspective.
Now there is a rollover impact as you renew part of your business at a lower price so that factors into your next year's price.
But we're not giving '12 guidance but what I think is important for everyone to understand is we're as committed as we've ever been to consistently and intelligently price our business.
But we're also were very much focused on free cash flow.
And so we're not going to walk away from good return business just because we've got to extend business at a lower price for the long-term resi customers.
So we're not really disturbed by it's just a fallout if you will of a long and tough economy.
The sector is still fairly rational and we'll work our way through it.
So we'll give you more on that when we talk about '12 guidance.
But I think all-in-all if you look at the cash flow look at the margin the cost control we're working through it pretty well and I think people should be happy with that.
And Al another thing to note that how we calculate price is a yield on the total book of business.
And on the contracts that are just in the normal course of renewing we are getting the resets at the levels we expected.
So kind of that 1% to 1.5% range.
It's just that due to the state of municipal finance and when new contracts are -- come up for renewal or new business opportunities it's a little bit lower pricing environment that did put pressure only on the one line of business meaning the residential line of business.
So we had positive price again across all lines of business in both the open and restricted market.
It's just really in that residential business where you do see these type of issues on the average price.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a follow up and then -- and Don you talked a little bit about and I think you gave us an alert about the commodity market.
Could you maybe just address these changes taking place in the market in terms of commodity prices and your multi-year strategy on looking at this evolving tone in that recycling as a greater component? Are you thinking anything different here in the near term as you stomach the near-term headwinds on the commodity price? No we're not.
I mean the commodity prices have settled down a little bit here starting Q4.
And the fact is when we look at the investments for our recycling infrastructure we look at those investments over the cycle.
So we build our ROI performance kind of about a 10-year.
We know commodities are going to flex up and down but the fact of the matter is that the tonnage is evolving the waste stream is changing customer demand is changing there is more attention on recycling today.
We think it has really weathered the storm of this economy even through a downturn our customers still are demanding more recycling services.
So we need to invest correctly in that.
So we're going to continue to do that.
The -- as  I said so recycling is a little bit or commodity prices are down a little bit but over the 10-year cycle we think the investments still make a lot of sense for the company we invested in.
Your next question comes from Scott Levine of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A bit surprised to hear you commit to -- or not really commit to but suggest 2010 volumes will be positive.
I'm just wondering whether that's a function really of some contract wins that you guys have had or whether you're seeing some things within this more cyclical side of your businesses that are surprising you to the upside.
Would you agree that you're more upbeat regarding volume outlook than you were maybe 3 months ago? And a little bit of color as to why.
Well 3 months ago we weren't even -- we don't want to talk about 2012 so that's for starters.
But we've seen some good things in the quarter.
Again 9 sequential quarters of volume improvement.
That's a pretty good story in and of  itself.
For the first time now we're reporting positive volume here in Q3.
That calls for a little celebration.
We've seen some good signs in our temp roll off business.
Special waste holding up pretty well a lot of small jobs are not just the big wins but a lot of activity heading unilaterally on special waste.
So we feel pretty good about that.
In the trenches so to speak our customer defection is still very low at kind of 7%.
We're doing a good job on net sales.
So we're competing effectively in the markets.
We're winning in a lot of our markets on that basis.
We've got a couple of big wins here the privatization of Toledo certainly is a nice rollover for us.
We've got the win in San Jose.
So we've got the -- the organization is very focused on market growth across 243 markets on finding sort of niches where we can take advantage of volumes that exist there that maybe weren't there before.
And we're still very effectively moving price out into the business.
So we think we've lived through the trough here pretty well.
And well we're not economists we're not going to necessarily play that role for you.
We were thinking '12 will be a good positive volume year for us.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear.
And one follow-up I think Tod you mentioned that the positive effect of CPI-linked resets not expected to really have much impact until the second half of '12 is that a function of the timing of the resets within your CPI-linked business in general that we shouldn't expect much benefit in the first half not really pricing through the middle of next year but those trends are going to be more a function of just competitive market trends in general a little bit more color there.
Well I think it goes really in 2 steps.
And the first step would be a little bit more muted and then we get a fair bit of particularly some of our Western franchise price resets on July 1 and again in September October 1.
So there's probably 2 steps to it.
And again we have this municipal dynamic that Don described.
We will just have to see how that sector unfolds.
But as Don said we've been successful at both retaining some of our business and then also securing this business at decent returns.
So that churn rollback activity may mute a little bit the pricing that we'd see in that restricted residential side of the business or the franchise side of the business.
Our next question comes from Bill Fisher of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe for Tod you mentioned the SG&amp;A you've been spending some on productivity for a while initiatives.
And you've touch on automated side loader.
Anything else that you're investing in that you feel could start having some benefits in '12 and '13? Maybe I should let Don talk to those initiatives.
I'll give you a kind of a dollar sense that we might be spending somewhere on an annual basis in the range of 20 to 30 basis points on P&amp;L.
And certainly we're putting some capital into that also in terms of higher cost of automated side load trucks for example or a CNG vehicle.
So there is both the P&amp;L and the capital cash flow spend are investment for that.
Thanks Tod.
Bill we're still building out our fleet initiative and that's going to carry through '12 '13 and into '14.
It takes a lot of hard work and time to go through a change management initiative of this size.
So we're having great results with it.
We just -- we really are just scratching the surface.
So '12 will be a big year for us there.
We've continued to invest in our procurement group on spending.
The national account program here we think national account business is a good business.
Again customer buying habits are changing there.
There's a substantial number of customers that we think would want to buy more regionally and nationally if we have the right skill set and service offering for them.
So we're building out that capability.
And those things will start to pay big dividends in '12 and beyond.
But these things are all slow-moving as far as the integration process and the change management.
So these things don't get done overnight.
But we've been working on some of these things now all year with really a drag on earnings.
And next year we'll start to see some of those things begin to pay dividends for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just to follow up on that would some of that be more like on the maintenance side or just general productivity on vehicles? Well experts would tell you that if you improve your maintenance you're going to improve productivity you're going to improve safety you're going to improve driver turnover.
So we're measuring our fleet initiative value just on the R&amp;M line Bill.
And the other value or benefit that we get will come.
But we're -- we'll do it with the ROI on the investments just against the R&amp;M expense line.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Ed just on the guidance have you changed your CapEx outlook? What are you assuming on CapEx? And if you could just kind of remind us in your -- prior to this quarter in your guidance have you been assuming commodity prices would come down or is that a change? Well commodity pricing is something that we just saw here in mid-October so it is a change.
And again there's some seasonality as you know to commodities.
So where they are today or where they may be a month or 2 from now maybe very different from where they are in the spring time when -- particularly when Asia starts to build up activity in preparation for the following holiday season.
Regarding capital spend yes we -- our original free cash flow guidance is $875 million to $900 million.
Again we're very comfortable with frankly the higher end of that range.
We have stepped up our capital spend this year.
I think our original guidance was probably somewhere in the $740 million range and we're probably about $100 million more than that.
Based upon some of these contracts and the opportunities that we saw there to get decent return on that additional capital.
But also based upon again the uncertainty with bonus appreciation where we're going to take advantage of 100% bonus appreciation again this year.
Next year it's supposed to go to 50%.
Who knows what Congress is going to do but we're planning that it goes to 50% and therefore we have a little bit of capital pull forward activity here to take advantage of that.
But Corey you know that we're pretty consistent on the capital spend right? So we're keeping our fleet age consistent.
We're investing correctly in automation in CNG vehicles but we're reallocating our CapEx spend to do that and we've invested some in recycling as we've talked about.
But generally speaking it's pretty flat spend for us.
But as Tod said we always keep a little powder dry for these winds in the municipal side and then we just got to take advantage of the tax benefits when we get them.
So -- but generally speaking it's a pretty consistent spend approach here.
Right.
That's -- right now we're right at about 10% of revenue maybe slightly over 10% of revenue for our capital spend.
And as the business grows there needs to be a little bit more capital invested for that growth if we get some modest growth next year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just one other follow-up on the volume side.
Don you've mentioned some new contracts and municipalities looking to outsource as a budgetary control.
On the other side of that there was the Dallas announcement about flow control.
Is that something that's going to impact you in a meaningful way? And is that something that you're seeing more broadly or does that seem limited to Dallas at this point? Well they will impact us a little bit in '12 because we've got a pretty good landfill position there in Dallas.
And so now we're going to have to bring over our volume there going forward.
But it's not material.
We'll give you more on that when we give you guidance.
But that's not keeping us up at night.
The fact is Dallas is really one of the few major cities that has a landfill of any size like that that flow control could be an impact.
And when you think about the other big markets places like L.A.
Chicago these people own their own landfill.
So it's kind of an anomaly to have a city that size of Dallas that has the ability to legally do flow control.
So we're not concerned about it overall.
You could see a little movement over the next few years and some of them maybe smaller counties and municipalities.
But it's not anything for us to worry about.
That's also very unique because that site has a  lot -- a long life.
Yes yes.
That's a great point Tod.
I mean if -- As far as the value of cash flow of that city they beat their budget shortfall.
Yes.
That landfill is a really really big hole.
It's Texas right? There's a lot of land in Texas so.
Our last question comes from Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> If we could revisit price environment for a second.
One of the things you've talked about before Don is the willingness to defend business.
And that defense is across your experiences being across all the business lines? Or is this pressure for a defense basis mostly that's residential? I just want to make sure I understand this mix issue correctly? Well let's talk about it just I guess as far as philosophically.
Now on the collection line the collection lines of business the organization the industry has been able to consistently do a good job on pricing over the last several years prior to this economic malaise right that we're -- that we've kind of have been through here.
So year-on-year-on-year good positive price growth.
You've got these collection accounts that have great returns and then you get some competitive activity.
You get some municipal activity to try to take some price out of that collection.
Philosophically that's the collection business.
On the landfill side of business again half of our business there comes from municipalities.
These municipalities don't compete with us.
They're on large or long-term contracts with kind of CPI escalators.
We take a probably a similar approach to that kind of volume.
But then we have open market landfill business.
These are people who are in the business with garbage trucks competing with us and we don't necessarily take the same approach there.
So we've -- we; consistently raised prices there.
As I said about 3% on landfill in total.
On that nonrestricted open market volume in the landfill it's been more like 4% to 5%.
So we've consistently priced that business.
And if those volumes aren't willing to pay a higher price then we let the volume leave our system.
So we're not -- we're still really safeguarding the value of our assets.
We think the landfills certainly should be able to be priced higher and that's our philosophy.
So when I say fiercely defend think collection business think municipal business don't necessarily think open market landfill.
It's a different sort of a pricing strategy theory.
On the collection side you've got -- you do have these small haulers who aren't -- don't have shareholders and don't have sort of the same sort of rationale in their pricing behavior who get a little fidgety where there's no organic growth and tend to compete a little harder.
We have done a good job of defending our business in the commercial small container business.
And that tends to be a little more competitive behavior.
In the residential system these are much bigger accounts; primarily a lot of times larger companies because of the big capital outlay.
They tend to be more rational.
But you have cities who are really looking for some price relief.
And with these long-term contracts and relationships we need to step up and extend that business and we do that.
So it's all-in-all that really is the reason that we're at 70 bps price than a little lower than maybe we thought we'd be.
But overall we're still pricing every month in the marketplace through our RPM process.
We continue to look to adjust services or upsell customers.
We actually even have a couple of examples where we've actually raised prices at municipal accounts and extended business with additional services.
So we're doing everything we can to do there.
It's working pretty well for us.
And as I said I think we're at the trough here and we're going to come through it.
So other than that it's always been a competitive business.
It's -- the open market's I think been consistent with what we've seen over the last couple of quarters.
And the teams did a great job on the cost control side.
And if you look at the margin and the cash flow you can see that defending good business is the right strategy.
And it doesn't mean that we're out there lowering prices on new business across the board but we are being selective and opportunistic for certain opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you're not doing guidance but we have to model.
So if I frame something can you just tell me if we're in the right ballpark? Thinking about the business environment being what it is today is it the right way to think about 2012 core prices kind of 1% to 2% because you did get a 1.5% CPI escalator to -- for 2010.
Volumes are 0% to 1% acquisitions are kind of 1% to 2% fuel is flat because your -- this last year it's about $3.84 and you're at $3.83 and recycling is the unknown.
Well that's a nice try Michael but we're not giving 2012 guidance.
So we -- I'm willing to tell you that we think the volume is -- we're through the trough.
And as I said 2012 looks positive.
I think pricing we're coming to the trough and we're climbing out of it pretty well.
We have it reengaged as you know in the acquisition business here.
And we've got a little pipeline of some acquisitions that we're doing now.
We'll do some of those in '12 consistently as we've said.
And overall we're still focused on our total cash returns for our shareholders and we're going to be very efficient in the way we do that through growth internal -- to growth development of our recycling the assets growth around acquisitions and we're going to manage the heck out of the business and stay focused on what we do really well.
And we're going to continue to produce strong cash flow and solid margins.
So that's kind of the heritage here.
And that's what we'll continue to do in '12.
And that's just close to the guidance that you're going to get out of me.
Anything Tod? No that was good.
That sums it up.
Research Division</strong> Well that works for you.
Well do you expect free cash flow to be up next year or flat? Michael we'll talk to you in January or early February.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thanks operator.
In closing I'd just like to say thank you to the entire Republic team for all your hard work and the performance here in the third quarter.
We are focused on business fundamentals that deliver continued success here at Republic Services.
As a reminder a recording of this call is available through November 3 2011 by calling (203) 369-1018.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with the recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
Thanks for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your host for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Holly.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that would cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is February 9 2012.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
I am pleased to report our fourth quarter and full year performance met and exceeded our guidance.
Before discussing our fourth quarter achievements I will review our financial performance.
Revenue of $2 billion for the quarter and $8.2 billion for the full year.
Total price growth in the quarter was 1.5% with core price up 0.6% including MSW landfill price of about 3%.
Volumes increased by 0.2% excluding the impact of fewer workdays.
Our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.53.
Full year adjusted earnings per share was $1.96.
Our fourth quarter adjusted free cash flow was $208 million.
Our full year adjusted free cash flow was $909 million which exceeded our guidance.
We repurchased 1 million shares in the fourth quarter for $29 million.
During the past 12 months we repurchased 15.7 million shares or 4% of our stock for $460 million.
We have $650 million remaining under our authorization to return to our shareholders over the next 2 years.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
Total cash returned to the shareholders was approximately $770 million during 2011.
Based on our current market capitalization this represents a 7% cash yield.
During the fourth quarter we settled with the IRS on the legacy Allied exchange of partnership tax issue.
This settlement allowed Republic to reduce tax reserves in the quarter.
Our field organization continues to target profitable growth and effectively manage our cost structure.
In the fourth quarter we saw a 20 basis point sequential improvement in our total Collection volumes.
Our industrial Collection volumes were positive on a year-over-year basis for the quarter and for the full year.
Our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue was flat on a year-over-year basis after adjusting for the impact of higher fuel expense.
SG&amp;A expense was 10.6% in the quarter and 10.1% for the full year.
Our safety performance continues to improve with a 4.5% favorable reduction in our frequency rate.
Some of our operational achievements during 2011 include: we increased the automated portion of our residential fleet by 8%.
59% of our residential fleet is now automated which exceeded our year-end goal.
We continue to invest in our CNG fleet and natural gas infrastructure with 6% of our fleet now operating on natural gas.
In 2012 we expect about 65% of the trucks we purchase to be fueled by CNG.
We increased recycling capacity by investing $46 million in developing and upgrading our recycling centers in 2011 and are planning on spending an additional $60 million in 2012.
These investments will add approximately 12% of incremental recycling volume over the next 18 months.
These are new tons to the company that were not previously delivered to a Republic recycling facility or disposal site.
I would like to thank our field operations for their continued support in executing our strategy of achieving profitable growth and maintaining a safe working environment.
Tod and Ed will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
Fourth quarter 2011 revenue as Don said was approximately $2 billion.
This reflects the following components of internal growth: core price growth up positive 0.6%; commercial and industrial price was on average up 1% with residential remaining more competitive due to the municipal and franchise contract pricing environment and also the lagging impact of prior year's CPI.
Since our price on index-based contracts tends to lag we are impacted by the lower CPI environment of 2010 which has not fully anniversaried.
Given the current CPI environment we expect index-based pricing to modestly improve in the second half of 2012.
Landfill price was up 2.5% -- 2.9%.
This is consistent with the third quarter.
Within that component of our business are also third-party open market landfill customers where we are increasing price in the range of 4% to 5%.
Our fuel recovery fee increased 1%.
The increase in fuel recovery fee relates to an increase in fuel costs.
The average price per gallon of diesel increased to $3.87 in the fourth quarter of 2011 from $3.14 in the prior year.
This is an increase of 23%.
The current price of fuel is relatively constant with the fourth quarter at $3.86 per gallon.
Our guidance assumes that fuel prices will remain at this level during 2012.
Turning to commodity revenue.
This decreased by 0.1%.
Commodity prices actually decreased 9% to an average price of $125 per ton in the fourth quarter from $137 per ton in the prior year.
Fourth quarter recycling facility commodity volume of 509 000 tons was up 13% from the prior year and up 6% on a same-store basis.
Our current commodity prices are about $118 per ton and our 2012 guidance assumes that commodity prices will remain at this level.
Now recently there has been volatility in the commodity markets.
I'd like to take some time to discuss our recycling business in further detail and provide the impact of changing commodity prices on our business.
We generate third-party revenue from the sale of about 4.1 million tons of recyclables per year from our material recycling facilities or MRFs and also from our collection companies that sell materials to third-party processors.
Our MRFs process and sell approximately 2 million tons of recyclable materials per year.
Of the materials we sell approximately 70% are fiber-based including cardboard newsprint and mixed office paper; and 30% are other recyclables including metals plastics and organics.
For reference purposes at current volumes a $10 per ton change in commodity prices at our MRFs translates into approximately $20 million of annual revenue and $0.02 of earnings per share.
Now in addition to our MRFs our Collection operations directly collect and deliver 2.1 million tons of recycling material to third-party processors each year.
This includes recycling services for industrial commercial and residential customers.
For our materials delivered to third-party MRFs we generally earn a rebate based upon a percentage of the ultimate commodity sale.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity prices translates into approximately $7 million of annual revenue and $0.01 of earnings per share within our Collection line of business.
So in total including our MRF and our Collection operations a $10 per ton change in commodity prices results in approximately a $27 million change in annual revenue and a $0.03 change in earnings per share.
Let's turn to volume for a moment.
Excluding the impact of fewer workdays in the fourth quarter volumes increased by 20 basis points year-over-year.
We continue to see volume improvements in the Collection line of business.
Fourth quarter Collection volumes of negative 0.2% improved 20 basis points sequentially from the third quarter.
Industrial volumes is positive year-over-year and Commercial is only slightly negative.
Our disposal volumes consisting of landfill and transfer activity were up 0.2% versus the prior year.
As expected special waste was negative in the quarter compared to the prior year due to the high levels of special waste volumes in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 there was approximately one less work day as I mentioned earlier which resulted in a 40 basis point decline in revenue.
Now let me talk to margins in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Fourth quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA margin was 29.8% compared to 30.5% in the prior year a 70 basis point decline mostly related to the impact of fuel and commodity.
The components of the margin change are as follows: first transfer and disposal costs.
The 50 basis point improvement here relates to decreased disposal expense and is primarily due to the redirection of waste streams into lower-cost sites.
Maintenance and repairs.
We saw a 50 basis point increase in expense here and this relates to an increase in the cost of tires across our supplier base and also refurbishing containers versus purchasing new containers.
This resulted in a higher container expense -- repair expense at a lower cash cost.
Fuel.
The unfavorable fuel expense increase of 100 basis points was due to the 23% increase in the cost of diesel which I discussed earlier.
Partially offsetting the increase in fuel costs was an increase in related fuel recovery fee and this resulted in a net decrease in EBITDA margin of about 30 basis points.
Next our landfill operating costs.
The 40 basis point improvement in here relates to a reduction in remediation expenses.
In the prior year fourth quarter there were charges for environmental matters that did not repeat in the current year.
Next is recycling cost of goods sold.
The 20 basis point increase in expense here relates to increased rebates to customers for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold increased to an average of $41 per ton from $40 per ton in the prior year.
Additionally commodity revenue decreased which resulted in a decreased spread of approximately $13 per ton.
Now cost of goods sold tends to lag the change in commodity revenue which negatively impacts our spread when prices are falling.
The net impact was a 10 basis point decline in EBITDA margin.
And finally our SG&amp;A expense.
SG&amp;A expense was 10.6% of revenue an improvement of 30 basis points from the prior year after excluding cost to achieve synergies.
The reduction relates to expenses in the prior year for legal settlements.
Full year 2011 SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 10.1% and looking ahead to 2012 we would expect full year SG&amp;A expense to be approximately 10%.
Finally DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.5% in the current year versus 11.1% in the prior year.
The 40 basis point increase in expense relates to a favorable landfill liability adjustment that occurred in the prior year.
DD&amp;A continues to be higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense taxes and free cash flow.
Thanks Tod.
Q4 2011 interest expense was $105 million which included $17 million of noncash amortization.
In 2012 we expect to call the notes due in June 2017.
Our EPS guidance includes the favorable impact of refinancing this debt with total interest expense of approximately $395 million to $405 million.
This includes noncash interest of about $60 million.
Our guidance excludes any premiums paid or debt discounts written off in connection with early extinguishments.
Our Q4 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by settling Allied's 2000 to 2003 tax years with the IRS.
The settlement was finalized in December and included Allied's 2002 exchange of partnership interest matter.
We expect a full year 2012 tax rate of approximately 39% which will fluctuate by quarter.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Full year 2011 adjusted free cash flow was $909 million which consisted of cash provided by operating activities of $1 767 000 000 less property and equipment received of $886 million plus proceeds from the sale of property of $35 million plus merger-related expenditures net of tax of $9 million plus divestiture-related tax payments of $17 million less cash tax benefit from debt extinguishment of $33 million.
Therefore adjusted free cash flow equals $909 million.
As noted in our 8-K we expect 2012 adjusted free cash flow in the range of $775 million to $800 million.
The decrease from 2011 is due to a $140 million increase in cash taxes mostly related to the impact of bonus depreciation.
In 2012 bonus depreciation drops to 50% from 100% in 2011.
Since bonus depreciation is an acceleration of a tax deduction the cash tax benefit claimed in any given year reverses in future years.
We expect cash taxes as a percentage of provision included in our adjusted free cash flow to be approximately 80% in 2012.
After adjusting for the change in bonus depreciation and lower commodity prices 2012 adjusted free cash flow is growing in the mid-single digit range when compared to 2011.
Balance sheet.
At December 31 our accounts receivable balance was $826 million and our days sales outstanding was 37 days or 24 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $6.9 billion at December 31 and our excess credit available under our bank facility was approximately $1.5 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
In 2012 we will remain focused on executing our strategy while improving return on capital through continued disciplined pricing that exceeds cost increases utilizing our ROI-based tools; growing the business through organic growth acquisitions and investments in recycling and processing technology; managing our cost structure through programs designed to gain operational efficiencies including fleet automation CNG conversion and standardized maintenance practices; investing in our people through training and development and maintaining a safe and positive work environment allowing us to continue to attract and retain top talent; enhancing our customer's experience with Republic by continuously improving service delivery and providing solutions to meet their changing demands and buying habits.
Before we move into Q&amp;A I'll provide 2012 financial guidance.
We expect 2012 adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $1.98 to $2.02.
Our guidance assumes that fuel and recycled commodity prices will remain at current levels for the full year.
We anticipate 2012 free cash flow in the range of $775 million to $800 million.
We expect annual revenue growth of 1.5% to 2% with core price improving 1% to 1.5% and volume improving by approximately 0.5%.
Our EBITDA margin guidance is 30.5%.
2012 capital is expected to be $860 million.
At this time operator we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on pricing on your pricing guidance.
Does the guidance of 1.5% bake in the fact that you're going to reprice the business that you guys did not price if you will last year? And maybe if you could also tell us what CPI adjustment pricing bakes in? And any pickup in C&amp;D you guys are baking into that 1.5% or are you baking that business to be flat? Okay.
Hamzah we'll try to break this out for you.
Well first you mentioned in your question pricing the customers that we did not price last year and for practical purposes we are reviewing every customer in our book of business at least once annually.
Those customers are either coming up through a contract situation that has an escalator clause on an annual basis or they're part of our RPM process where we're reviewing roughly 1/12 of our customer base in the open market every month.
So we're reviewing and potentially adjusting every customer throughout the year.
Having said that as you know we've had some price compression in the area of municipal contracts.
We've been rolling back a little bit of price to keep some of that business in various markets.
Now going forward we're going to continue that practice.
So in 2012 we're going to maintain that focus on RPM and that monthly cadence that we talk about.
Of course we're going to have those contracts coming due throughout the year just as they do every year and we'll have the benefit of CPI starting to roll through those contracts based on the higher CPI prices.
You know it takes 12 or 18 months for that to occur.
Having said all that if we get a little bit of a better economy that certainly helps the pricing atmosphere and customer sensitivity as well.
So what we've got here is this pricing range that kind of predicts that the first half of the year is going to be somewhat below -- somewhere below 1% and the second half of the year is going to be somewhere below 2% but approaching and we're going to be ramping up throughout the year based on how these contracts roll through.
So that's the pricing outlook for '12.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's very helpful.
And just a follow-up question maybe for Ed is just on the tax benefit with the Allied settlement.
What's the EPS impact or benefit for the tax during the quarter? For the tax impact in the fourth quarter the impact was about $0.10 of EPS.
So we're -- the adjusted EPS was $0.53.
It would have been $0.43 without the tax benefit related to the audit settlements.
I'd also mention commodities.
And then if you look at it obviously with the -- between the time we got on the call in October and year end we probably saw about a $0.02 headwind from commodities because we didn't see the price decline in the domestic markets for fiber until November which was after the time we were on the earnings call in October.
So you look at what the price decline was in the quarter after the call it was about a $0.02 headwind.
So if you wanted to adjust it for that we would've done about $0.45.
Next question comes from Corey Greendale with First Analyst (sic) [Analysis].
Research Division</strong> Question about the general pricing environment.
I realize that the business doesn't turn on a dime.
And I know -- I hear your comments about the municipal pricing environment.
But could you just speak kind of directionally are you seeing that getting tougher better or sideways? Yes your first comment was right on.
The business doesn't change very quickly.
We would characterize it as being very similar to last year.
We certainly don't see any change in behavior of the larger companies.
The publicly traded companies tend to have a pretty keen focus on this from our perspective.
And otherwise their pricing environments had sort of changed market to market.
But generally speaking we're still seeing a little pressure in the resi business regarding large contract renewals and we're still out in the marketplace as I said answering Hamzah's question keeping the same cadence and focus that we did in '11 and we're in the market every month.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question's actually on acquisitions.
I saw in the guidance you're guiding to about 50 basis points in acquisitions which is a little more than you've been doing.
Is that -- is there's something you've done recently that's contributing there? Or are you assuming future acquisitions? And can you just speak generally to your outlook on and expectations for acquisitions in 2012? You're right Corey.
It's a little more but it's kind of marginal.
We're saying that for '12 we're going to spend between $50 million and $100 million and that's in our cash flow projection.
So that will come in sporadically throughout the year but we've got a pretty good pipeline.
The strategy hasn't changed.
We're still looking at tuck-ins.
So existing markets we're not looking to expand outside of our market footprint.
We're just looking to build the 240 markets that we have stronger and that's where we'll live in 2012.
The next question comes from Scott Levine with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> The question I think you said that you expect the CPI-linked pricing to improve modestly in the back half of the year.
Just trying to get a better sense of what modestly means and whether we really should think of pricing kind of being flat.
I know you guided in quarters but stable at these levels stabilizing the first half and then ramping in the back half.
Or do you expect it to kind of go up from here? Just trying to maybe separate the impact of CPI length from what you guys would guide to for a purely competitive price.
Well I mean how the CPI works for the first 6 months of 2012 you're really still living on the CPI that was printed in calendar '10 so that was about 1.5%.
So in many of the restricted price contracts that we have that's kind of the core price.
Now every contract is unique and it could be modestly different from that level.
But essentially we're still living on the 2010 very low CPI for the first half of this year.
Then starting in the second half some of the contracts where we set in July and others where we set in October we'll start to see the higher CPI that was from calendar '11 which is in the 3% neighborhood.
So that's why as Don mentioned what we'll see as far as the progression of pricing during the course of the year that pricing will probably be a little bit lower than 1% during the first half of the year quite similar to what we saw in the second half of '11.
And then beginning in the third quarter as we start to see the higher calendar '11 CPI reflected in the resets that's why we'll be above 1% and then as we go through the second half of the year be exiting the year in the 2% neighborhood.
Yes.
Remember Scott that's why we're always saying 12- to 18-month lag.
Some of these contracts reset trailing 12 months.
Some of them reset point in time year-over-year and we've even got a couple that reset on last year calendar basis.
And so it's that 12- to 18-month lag that works -- working our way through so we're going to steadily kind of climbing out of that trough.
Research Division</strong> And could you comment -- it would be a similar proportionate increase there Q2 to Q3 and then Q3 to Q4 where more of the contracts reset midyear and you have more of a step up then.
It's kind of spread throughout the second half of the year.
So I would say yes you'd probably -- it's kind of a 2-step process as we actually work our way through the year.
It doesn't all step up July.
Yes but just back to the comment I made earlier.
Think about the range being 1% to 1.5% that's sort of averaging up.
So something less than 1% in the first half something less than 2% or approaching 2% in the second half and that's kind of the way we're looking at how this ramps up.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And a follow-up on volume environment.
I know you highlighted a couple contracts that you won last quarter in California and Florida.
Are those meaningful in terms of basis point contribution of volumes? And/or what are you seeing in terms of general volume environment with folks getting a little bit more upbeat in the economy these days? I would say the largest contract that we called out on the last call was San Jose and that starts up in July.
So that doesn't start up until midyear.
Some of the other contracts are gearing up here in the early part of the year.
So we'll start to see some of the volume impact but again it's a little bit more noticeable come July 1 because of all the contracts San Jose is the largest.
Research Division</strong> Collectively could that get to 50? I mean is it 50 basis points 100 basis points? Or is that too large in terms of the impact? For all the contracts you're talking about? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I would say it's probably about 40 basis points.
And I'll keep this in mind too.
I'm sure someone will ask this question anyways.
We've got this roll off of the Oakleaf-Waste Management business right.
So with that acquisition that occurred late last year we're kind of steadily weaning ourself off of that volume and that's a fairly good-sized piece of about $30 million worth of revenue that's going to roll off.
And so netting out right we're still volume positive here even though that -- even though of that acquisition between Waste and Oakleaf.
Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley your line is open.
Research Division</strong> The 0.5% increase in volumes that's contemplated for 2012 seems potentially modest given all the talk out there of the proverbial green shoots on the construction side which is really something new when you think about how weak things have been the past several years.
So on the front lines are you seeing any noticeable impact from commercial construction multifamily housing or anything along those lines? Do you get the feel that maybe this time the improvement is for real and it could help your volumes this year? We're watching all the same things you are and there's a lot of little feel-good stories being printed up.
But as you know we're very late cycle.
We're late cycle generally but we're very late cycle as it relates to this construction.
So we don't tend to haul a lot of volume until well after these projects are out of the ground and when they're in sort of the final finishing stages of completion.
So we'll start to count those loads when we start to see them and we'll be glad to tell you about them when we're getting them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then on the cost side given the affected diesel prices have had over the years and the importance to the bottom line combine that with your plan to make if I heard correctly 65% of the truck purchases CNG this year.
Could you expand a little on how the growing presence of those CNG trucks is going to change the equation in terms of costs? Well right now it's marginal because as we mentioned only 6% of the fleet is CNG today or natural gas.
So it will be I would say a growing story over the next several years.
But here in the early part of the process it doesn't have a measurable impact on the fuel expense.
So -- but what we'll be doing we start with 6% a year; we replace about 10% of the fleet every year.
So as you could see we'll be gradually building so that within say a 5-year period about 1/3 of our fleet will be CNG or natural gas and then I think it becomes more visible to you looking at fuel expenses as a percentage of revenue.
So I don't think you'll see it too much in the early stages here but it is definitely a good cost reduction opportunity for us as we move forward.
Yes so keep in mind right we've got 15 000 trucks.
So we'll buy 500 or so CNG trucks this year and maybe next year and we'll look at it beyond that.
But as we're looking through our fleet strategy here we're looking at the larger fleets where this makes more sense.
We're certainly looking at areas where our customers have an interest in CNG and where it enhances our product profile with our customers.
So it's just a steady move forward and again we're living within our normal capital spend if you will very traditional with kind of our Republic philosophy here.
And we're going to keep that cash flow predictable and just live within our means and we'll just allocate that CapEx around maybe more efficiently as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's a good plan.
And when you do make the conversion to CNG if I remember correctly the savings on that a daily or per mile basis is somewhere in the ballpark of 30%.
That's roughly correct yes.
But there's higher upfront.
There are some upfront fees.
But yes as we've discussed even on a fully loaded basis with the infrastructure cost the payback period on the CNG investment is about 4.5 years and has a return on invested capital in the high teens.
The next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> On the cash flow side there's 2 pieces of this I'm trying to get my hands around.
You paid out roughly a little over $300 million in dividends do a little over $900 million in free cash flow.
That's about 34%.
How should we think about that mix if you look out over time 2 3 years? How should we think about what the dividends should represent as a percentage of the free cash? Well it's going to be a function of what opportunities we have available but I would think the dividend would be probably somewhere in the 45% range say between 40% and 50%.
And the dividend we would expect to grow as the cash flows and the business builds.
So that's foundational to the company.
And then we have the share repurchase which I think you've seen the activity and our ability over the years to buy back the shares efficiently to create long-term lasting value.
And there's a little bit of flexibility there.
The acquisition or not the acquisition but the merger is 3 years behind us and so we're really about enhancing the strong platform that we have.
And as opportunities come up we're building the pipeline and we're out there doing a little bit more on acquisitions where it makes sense.
So there's a little bit of a flux between say over a 3- to 5-year basis between share repurchase and acquisitions depending on which creates more value.
We're committed to all 3.
Sure and as we've always said Michael we think this business can steadily and consistently grow free cash kind of mid to upper single digits right.
And that's what we think we're doing here in '12 and then we'll just as Tod said we'll kind of keep that balance intact.
We've got a strong balance sheet and we're committed to return cash to shareholders efficiently and we've got the flexibility to be opportunistic where we can be.
So I think it's a good approach.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other part of the free cash question if bonus depreciation gets revisited and pushed back to 100% how do we -- how does that reflect in the -- what's the incremental change to the $775 million $800 million? And then the other side of that is how should we think about the cycle of bonus depreciation if at '13 '14 if I'm trailing off I don't get a revision? Yes I think we'll cross the "what if Congress does something" when we get there.
I think we can talk to the impact.
I think Ed has indicated from '11 to '12 the total impact was a swing of $140 million.
And so if you look at the '12 component alone that's actually a negative $40 million.
And then as you look out into '13 given what we've got in terms of the past legislation or the current legislation that $40 million probably goes to about $80 million or $90 million.
And then it starts to tail off in terms of the headwind as those 2008 and 2009 100% bonus depreciation years anniversary up.
Now again as we've said capital is important to us.
We're going to manage the taxes so we'll see what happens as we approach the end of the year.
And if Congress actually acts we may adjust our capital spend accordingly.
One thing I want to emphasize is our free cash flow -- or excuse me our cash taxes is pretty strong.
It's -- cash taxes are about 80% of book taxes for '12.
So we feel like even though we've got a little bit of a headwind this year we're still in a good position from a cash tax standpoint we continue to actively manage that.
Right.
And from an activity-based perspective if you look at the last couple of years as bonus depreciation has sort of been in or out we've been able to adjust our spend and our buy to take advantage of it.
So we've got some flexibility to do that as Tod said.
Bill Fisher with Raymond James your line is open.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the -- you got it to roughly consistent EBITDA margins like 30.5% and hopefully the pricing I guess would take up most of the cost inflation wage and benefits.
And you got a hit on recycling commodity prices.
Just on the math is it the offset's going to be the productivity gains you talked about? Or can you just talk about some of those pieces? Yes remember the headwinds we've got the commodity headwind we've got fuel on a year-over-year basis.
And then we think -- again there's still going to be a little bit of price compression in the residential side which we've got baked into our pricing guidance.
And then yes we're just controlling costs.
We've got productivity measures.
We talked about the automation the CNG the maintenance initiatives all those things working together to build better productivity in the business.
So we've got good traction on all those programs and net-of-net lead us to this guidance.
So we're pretty positive about the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just Tod I think you gave the $118 is where the commodity price was.
Do you have what was the full year for '11 the commodity price? Yes we do.
It's $145.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $135? $145.
Next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Red (sic) [Wedbush] Securities.
Research Division</strong> It's Al with Wedbush Securities.
I want to follow up on this margin question because I'm having a hard time getting it.
As you know -- I think you said $118 per ton is what Bill had just mentioned and you're using Chicago-based pricing.
Is that fine? Is that right? No that's our actual blended rate for all commodities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So...
And most of it actually is probably West Coast.
In terms of the [indiscernible].
About 1/3 third of our volume is West Coast.
So actually we're probably a little bit biased but it's actually our internal national average.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I'm probably splitting hairs trying to get the exact location but what percentage of your recycling is fiber-related sales? I thought it was up about 55% 60%.
2/3.
About 70% is fiber.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if you're assuming current price of $118 as the -- is that what you're assuming is the average for '12 in the budget? Right.
Research Division</strong> Why -- that's a 20% headwind right from the prior year and yet you've got pretty good margin profile from what you just posted a 60 or 70 basis point decline.
So it seems like the EBITDA margin guidance is a bit aggressive given some of these headwinds and I'm just wondering what tailwinds you have to push you to that.
Well let's take commodities side for a minute.
We do have price of between 1% and 1.5% right.
So we're going to see that as we talked about previously on one of the questions CPI is starting to roll in getting a little traction there and that's going to make a difference for us.
And then we are looking at positive volume.
So those things together again with the offsets of the productivity programs we think will make that difference.
Research Division</strong> And on the volume side not to press you a little bit but volume is that back half positive therefore full year is positive? Or you get right out of the gate positive? Let's talk about full year and remember we've talked all through '11 about the pretty positive picture in and around industrial volumes.
And Collection volumes increased sequentially now I don't how many quarters in a row but Industrial's been kind of a bright spot for us.
Residential is improving so all those things continue to improve.
There's no one region or no one story that's making that happen but the trends just continually are improving and we see those improving through the year.
I think when you look at the full year we see modest positive volume now quarter-to-quarter it may fluctuate a little bit depending on special waste because that activity can be somewhat event-driven.
But it's not quite the situation maybe that price is.
Well it may be built a little bit in the second half of the year.
But it's not quite as powerful as that CPI impact that Ed explained earlier.
So positive throughout the year with a modest build.
The next question comes from Barbara Noverini with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide a bit of an update on your national accounts business? I realize that's still small but how has it been growing? And have you seen increased appetite from corporations who are interested in landfill diversion? Beyond just optimistic PR on the subject.
Yes I would say we believe in our national accounts program we've got a decent sized book of business there just shy of about $500 million annual book and it's growing -- it's sort of a single-digit percentage maybe 5% 6% a year.
We have a number of very large national account clients who are very concerned and very consistently working with us on landfill diversion and other ways to manage their waste.
I think if you look back into the early 2000s where large companies were coming out in favor of sustainability programs I think many of them kind of lost their appetite in the recession that we saw earlier in the decade.
But this time around even though the recession's been a little deeper and longer we've seen those national account partners of ours really be consistent with their interest in waste diversion and coming up with new ideas.
And so we're working very closely with those large clients in recycling waste diversion minimization and so forth.
And again it's that kind of partnership that we're trying to build with those people that allows us to build that business.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I'll now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
In closing I would like to thank the entire Republic team for our performance in the fourth quarter.
We had another successful full year in 2011 and we remain focused on the business fundamentals required to improve or return -- our return on invested capital and further position our company to grow across all lines of business.
As a reminder a recording of this call is available through February 16 2012 by calling (203) 369-3256.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services' conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your host for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Gabby.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' first quarter 2012 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our first quarter performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is April 26 2012.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services' first quarter performance.
Before we get started I want to acknowledge Tod Holmes' announcement regarding his plan to retire next year.
First I want to say that everyone at Republic has great respect for Tod and we also respect his decision.
Fortunately he has given us a full year to work a smooth transition.
Secondly Tod has built an incredibly capable and talented financial team here at Republic inclusive of solid financial processes sound controls and of course a strong balance sheet.
Tod has been one of the primary architects of the company's success fostering and establishing a lasting culture that is firmly committed to creating cash value for our owners with steadfast management focusing on return on investment with a balanced approach to cash utilization.
Additionally besides his 15 years of service to Republic and the countless contributions he has made along the way he has certainly been an invaluable adviser to me in the past 1.5 years.
We will save all of our goodbyes and our thank yous for next year as Tod will be with us for a while and we have plenty of work to do together before we host his retirement party.
I'll ask Tod to share his thoughts with you.
Thanks Don.
As Don said I've announced my retirement.
It's effective May 1 2013.
But it's a pretty simple story here.
I turn 65 years old in 2013 and have always planned on retiring then.
As part of my contract I'm required to give the company a 1-year notice prior to my actual retirement.
Therefore I informed Don and the board of my decision at this week's board meeting.
I do want to stress to everyone that I'm fully committed to my job here at Republic.
We've got a great team as Don indicated here and I'm committed to serving Republic over the next 12 months.
Don and I along with obviously the board's input will be working together to ensure a smooth and seamless transition.
So with that we'll go ahead and start the call.
I'll turn it back to Don.
Thanks Tod.
I will now review our first quarter financial performance before discussing our revised guidance for 2012.
Revenue of approximately $2 billion.
Core price growth in the quarter was 0.6% with positive price in both collection and disposal businesses.
Disposal includes MSW landfill price of 2.6%.
Volumes increased by 0.2%.
Our first quarter earnings per share was $0.38.
Our adjusted free cash flow was $175 million.
We repurchased 1 million shares in the first quarter for $31 million.
We have approximately $620 million remaining under our authorization to return to our shareholders through 2013.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
Total cash returned to the shareholders was approximately $112 million during the first quarter.
Some of our operational achievements during the first quarter include: Our safety performance continues to improve with a 4% favorable reduction in our frequency rate.
We have closed on $65 million of acquisitions through April that represents $40 million of annual run rate revenue.
These are highly accretive transactions and we expect to achieve the upper end of our acquisition range of $100 million.
We have maintained our return on investment focus when reviewing the acquisition market.
We continue to invest in fleet automation and converting the fleet to CNG.
During the first quarter we converted 67 routes to automated vehicles and placed 140 CNG vehicles in service.
Our 2012 truck order includes 550 CNG vehicles which is 65% of our total fleet order.
We opened our renovated single stream recycling facility in Anaheim California which increases our recycling capacity in that market by 50 000 tons per year.
I would like to thank our field operations for their continued support in executing our strategy of achieving profitable growth and maintaining a safe work environment.
Tod and Ed will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
First quarter 2012 revenue as Don indicated was approximately $2 billion and reflects the following components of internal growth.
First core price growth of 0.6%.
This level of core price was in line with our expectations that we spoke to in February for our first quarter.
Core price is positive in both collection and disposal businesses with slightly higher prices in the disposal business due to landfill MSW price increases of 2.6%.
Within that component of our business our third-party open market landfill customers were increasing the price in the range of 4% to 5%.
We expected the first half of the year to be below 1% with prices rising modestly in the second half of the year as the impact from higher CPI base pricing takes hold on a restricted customer base.
We still expect to see this increase in CPI-based pricing in the second half of the year but we do see pressure on price levels from new business in the open market and also retention efforts in the open market and municipal segments.
As a result as Don will describe in more detail later we now expect our full year 2012 price to be approximately 1%.
Our fuel recovery fee was positive 0.5%.
The increase in the fuel recovery fee relates to an increase in fuel costs.
The average price per gallon of diesel increased to $3.97 in the first quarter of 2012 from $3.63 in the prior year.
This is an increase of 9%.
Our commodity revenue decrease was 0.8%.
Commodity prices decreased 18% to an average price of $122 a ton in the first quarter of this year from $149 per ton in the prior year.
Q1 recycling facility commodity volume of 508 000 tons was up 6.3% from the prior year and up 5.2% on a same-store basis.
This volume increase compared to the prior year and was in line with our expectation.
Our revised 2012 guidance is based upon current commodity prices of $120 per ton compared to our original guidance of $118 per ton.
This provides a little bit of a tailwind for reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of EPS.
And that also includes the impact on our recycling facility and collection businesses.
Now turning to volume Q1 volume increased 20 basis points year-over-year.
We continue to see volume improvements in the collection line of business.
Q1 collection volume was negative 0.1% and that improved 10 basis points over Q4 levels.
Industrial volume was positive year-over-year driven by a lot of construction activity and commercial is only slightly negative.
Disposal volumes were down 1.3% versus the prior year which is made up of MSW tons at our transfer stations and landfills.
This was partially offset by higher levels of landfill special waste volumes.
Our Q1 2012 volume performance includes the impact of one more work day versus the prior year which resulted in a 50 basis point increase in revenue.
Now I'll discuss the first quarter year-over-year margin.
First quarter 2012 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.1% compared to 30.6% in the prior year a 250 basis point decrease.
This decline primarily relates to the following 4 items: First maintenance and repairs.
We saw a 90 basis point increase in expense that relates to an increase in the cost of tires across our supplier base the refurbishing of containers versus purchasing new containers and upfront implementation costs associated with our One Fleet maintenance initiative.
Our approach to repair versus replace containers results in a higher level of expense but it's capital efficient and results in a lower total cash cost.
We expect to work through discontinuing our inventory by the end of the year.
Second fuel.
The unfavorable fuel expense increase of 60 basis points was due to the 9% increase in the cost of diesel.
Our revised 2012 guidance is based upon current fuel cost of $4.13 per gallon compared to the original guidance of $3.86 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.10 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of EPS.
And this also includes the impact of fuel recovery fees.
The third margin factor is the work day increase.
There is an approximate 60 basis point increase in expenses as a percentage of revenue associated with the additional work day in the quarter.
This impact can be seen in almost all cost categories but obviously it's most notable in the labor expense.
This results from the additional expense of servicing our customers one more day where the revenue is on many cases on a fixed fee basis and therefore very little corresponding revenue increase.
Finally SG&amp;A expenses.
The 80 basis point increase in expense relates to investments in our sales force which occurred throughout last year and also increased levels of bad debt expense partially offset by a reduction in consulting expenses.
The 40 basis point increase in bad debt expense primarily relates to onetime recoveries realized in the prior year.
SG&amp;A expense at 11.2 % of revenue reflects the seasonality of our historically lowest revenue quarter of the year as well as the highest level of payroll taxes that tend to max out earlier in the year.
We expect full year SG&amp;A expense to be slightly above 10% of revenue which is fairly consistent with the prior year.
Turning to our DD&amp;A.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.8% this year versus 11.5% in the prior year.
The 30 basis point increase in expense relates to a landfill liability adjustment recorded in the current quarter for a site that recently closed.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenues due to the amortization of intangibles.
Now I'll turn the call to Ed who will discuss interest expense taxes and free cash flow.
Thanks Tod.
First quarter 2012 interest expense was $104 million which included $17 million of noncash amortization.
As we previously stated in the second quarter of 2012 we expect to call the notes due in June 2017.
The interest benefit of this refinancing is included in our full year guidance.
Our first quarter effective tax rate is favorably impacted by closing out state audits and changes in estimates on certain tax matters.
We now expect our full year 2012 tax rate to be approximately 37% but this will fluctuate by quarter.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
First quarter 2012 adjusted free cash flow was $175 million which consisted of cash provided by operating activities of $334 million less property and equipment received of $207 million plus proceeds from the sale of property of $5 million plus merger-related expenditures net of tax of $41 million plus divestiture-related payments of $2 million.
Therefore adjusted free cash flow equals $175 million.
Free cash flow timing tends to vary by quarter in particular due to capital expenditures and changes in working capital.
We expect to achieve the lower end of our full year guidance range of $775 million to $800 million.
Now I'll talk about the balance sheet.
At March 31 our accounts receivable balance was $808 million and our days sales outstanding was 37 days or 23 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $6.9 billion at March 31 and excess credit available under our bank facility was approximately $1.6 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Now I'll update our 2012 guidance.
We expect adjusted free cash flow at the lower end of our original guidance of $775 million to $800 million.
Adjusted earnings per share of $1.86 to $1.90 which is down from our original guidance of $1.98 to $2.02.
Our EPS guidance is primarily impacted by lower-than-expected internal growth higher fuel expense implementation cost associated with our maintenance initiative and certain onetime costs.
Our revised guidance assumes a normal seasonal earnings pattern of 47% to 48% in the first half of the year and the balance in the second half.
We expect price to be approximately 1%.
We expect full year volume performance to be flat down from our original guidance of 0.5%.
Our volume expectations are being negatively impacted primarily by 3 distinct MSW disposal locations and a large national account contract loss.
EBITDA margins for the full year of 29.5% compared to our original guidance of 30.5%.
We expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 37%.
We will remain focused on executing our strategy while improving return on capital through continued disciplined pricing; utilizing our ROI-based tools; growing the business through sales acquisitions and investments in recycling and processing technology protecting our profitable business that generates appropriate returns; managing our cost structure through programs designed to gain operational efficiencies including fleet automation CNG conversion and standardized managed practices; investing in our people through training and development and maintaining a safe and positive work environment allowing us to continue to attract and retain top talent; also enhancing our customer's experience with Republic by continuously improving service delivery and providing solutions to meet their changing demands and buying habits.
At this time operator we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And that first question comes from Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question really would be it's only been 2 months since you set guidance so what's changed? I'm a little surprised to see things change this quickly general speaking.
So maybe I'll just -- without focusing in on price or cost or any particular item just wondering how things could have changed or your view of the world could've changed this much this quickly.
Well I guess we need to talk about price and volume because that's a part of it.
They're 2 of the major components there.
When we built our business plan as we do every year we kind of consider how we see the world kind of exit speed Q4 and then what are we seeing at the time.
We were finalizing the budget in January and setting guidance in February.
At that time we felt a little better about the economy than we do today.
We thought we'd see a little more economic lift than we're seeing right now.
We thought the pricing environment in the open market would improve a little bit.
It really hasn't.
We've maintained our -- the cadence of our pricing programs so we're out in the general market.
Pricing is frequently and is consistently as it were last year.
Our price to customer was about 2.7% in the quarter.
So that's continued.
We've seen a continued pressure from the municipal segment in the sort of rollbacks in renewing business.
That's pretty consistent with what we thought.
And then this fleet initiative has cost us a little more than we figured.
So that -- we talked about that quite a bit last year Scott.
In 2010 we decided we needed to focus more on fleet.
We're about I think the 8th largest vocational fleet in the nation.
And to take the customer service assurance and the productivity to the next level we need to run our fleet consistently across the nation.
We saw some disparity on how our fleets were operating.
And so we designed this One Fleet program.
We piloted last year.
We began to roll it out late last year and we've gone now and broadened that initiative here in the early part of '12.
And what we're seeing is as we're -- the real main focus there of the fleet initiative is to move more to scheduled maintenance and less reactive maintenance to get to that level of productivity and customer service we're trying to achieve.
And in order to do that we've got to spend additional money that's sort of a temporary adjustment a little bit of a bow wave if you will to move to the level of a kind of world-class maintenance we want to run our fleet at.
So rather than back off of it we've decided to move forward with it even though it's going to cost us more this year.
We're coming to you and letting you know that it's critical enough for us that we're going to adjust our guidance.
We're going to move through the initiative over the next 3 years and become a world-class fleet.
Yes.
Scott where we look at it obviously as Don said we saw this volume situation here late in the quarter and then this quarter early in the fourth quarter and here in April.
And again when you look at the cost as Don indicated we think that we were seeing about 90 basis points of cost increases kind of on a year-over-year basis.
And so that's probably around $0.12.
And there's really as Don said 3 big items.
We got the maintenance which is the truck.
It's also the container maintenance which is probably worth about 5 to 10 basis points which we'll work through this year.
So while the maintenance might be with us for a couple of years the container is probably just this year.
We've got the fuel which everyone is aware of which is about $0.03 of earnings in an addition to a $0.04 in maintenance.
And then we have landfill.
We got higher leachate because of the warm weather in the Northeast and we also had some other close site costs at one particular landfill which we think are kind of a either current quarter or current year situation that should mitigate -- be mitigated next year.
We've also seen 4 distinct volume impacts since we set our guidance that equal that 50 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then maybe as my follow-up just to kind of understand this and really reconcile the change in guidance with the business environment that you're seeing.
So it sounds like most of the revision is internal and programmatic as opposed to the business climate being what it is.
But maybe if you could separate the business climate then from the program spending and talk a little bit about -- it sounds like frankly you've gotten more guarded on the business environment as the quarter's progressed.
Is that an accurate interpretation? How conservative should we think of your guidance's being with regard to the business environment which from a macro perspective seems to be stable if not improving a little bit? Yes I would say we got $0.38 of earnings in the first quarter.
And we think our guidance is realistic.
Again as Don indicated and we said this repeatedly our business is fairly predictable and we get about 46% to 48% of the earnings in the first half of the year and 52% to 54% in the second half of the year.
So early April as we were closing out the first quarter what we were seeing there plus what we were seeing in the competitive environment here in April as well is kind of a flatter economy than what we were expecting led us to conclude that we weren't going to get the lift from the economy and that the competitive landscape was remaining maybe a little bit more competitive than we originally thought whether it's in volume or in price both those categories.
And our next question comes from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> So the first question I guess just a little bit more on the competitive environment.
So is there any change on how you would describe your behavior as far as how you're viewing price competitively? No.
I think -- I mean we've talked about this a lot.
I know I mentioned it in my earlier comment.
Our price to customers is running about 2.7%.
There's always churn in the business.
It's always a competitive business.
Through all that churn and mix and service increase decrease new account lost account we end up posting this 0.6% price.
So we're still actively pricing in the marketplace.
If you look at our landfill pricing price in the open market MSW is 4% to 5%.
So for those people using our landfills in the open market they're seeing continuously a 4% to 5% increase.
So that's continuing.
Having said that we're not really gaining new accounts in the landfill and we probably lost more open market landfill accounts than we've gained because we're not willing to subsidize competition.
We're going to continue to raise landfill prices because the cost of owning people's trash infinito you can't solve that by volume.
You've got to charge a certain amount to get that return.
So we've continued that consistent strategy and we're not going to change.
Open market we have our RPM pricing program.
As we've talked about in the open market about 1/12 of our customers receive a price increase a month in the open market.
We work through a review of the cost and we look at what we think price elasticity is and we price our business.
We also then have to go through a continuous effort of defending business.
We got a good business high margin business so we got to defend then we use our ROI tools and we have what we call a walk-away price.
At some point we won't keep a customer for less than what we think is a reasonable return.
But we do defend vigorously.
So our actions haven't changed from that perspective.
One thing we started talking about last year and that is understanding by market who's taking share at our expense.
And today we're very good at understanding by market who's taking share at our expense and we have a sales staff that is targeted at saving business from those call it predators and also making sure that we're selling accordingly into their lines of business.
Because we can't just simply watch share leave as the total pie really isn't growing very much.
So that all impacts churn.
But again we're very consistently using our ROI tools our whole strategy and our compensation programs and personally the out-of-pie [ph] philosophy is very grounded in ROI.
But we've got a good -- we always fight a good competitive fight.
On the volume side I mentioned 50 basis points of volume that we expected to maintain and has already gone away in the year.
We lost a large national account which is about $25 million reported revenue this year or about 30 basis points of that 50 basis points.
And then we've lost 3 -- or we know we've lost 2 disposal contracts that we've contracted with municipalities.
Those were based on price.
Somebody decided to undercut us on the price and we weren't willing to lower our price of the landfills for that business.
The last piece of that is as you guys are familiar with L.A.
The Puente Hills Landfill has got a scheduled closing date.
They have gotten even more aggressive on attracting volume because they're going to walk away from air space.
And so that market has just further been depressed over the last 30 or 60 days and so we just can't close our eyes to those volume adjustments.
Those volumes are gone.
And we don’t necessarily think we can make them up.
We're not just going to chase volume to do that.
We've got to be reasonable and responsible.
So a long answer to your question Corey but I think our approach to the business hasn't changed.
We may be tougher than ever as far as defending business and we're certainly a little more prescriptive understanding who's taking share at our expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I appreciate all that detail and on -- I also appreciate detail on the cost side.
Can you just on the cost side help us think through a little bit more specifically about what portion of the lower margin guidance is really attributable to nonrecurring costs or things that won't be there at least in 2013? Well I think that the majority of it is I would say the fuel and fuel-related which is maybe about 1/3 of that 90 basis points could be with us on an ongoing basis.
The other items which are about 60 basis points would be either dropping off this year or in the case of our fleet initiative that's probably about -- that's like a '13 and '14 type of timeframe for us with -- that will continue on as we roll through our larger shops into our medium-sized and smaller shops across the country.
So that's a multi-year situation.
But again we should be harvesting the value out of that here through fewer road calls and a more efficient fleet in the future.
And our next question comes from Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The predators that you referred to Don could you give us a feel -- are they becoming more predatory more competitive recently? And if so is it your expectation that that's going to continue or do you think they're eventually going to have to get more disciplined given their own cost pressures? Well I can't speak for them right? I don't think necessarily the small haulers have gotten more competitive or more active.
Again the whole pie really isn't growing so they want to keep their trucks on the street.
We're-- one of the things we're adjusting our guidance off of is fuel right? We're paying $4.16 a gallon for fuel today.
Some of these small haulers like to sell no fees and I don't know how they adjust their pricing and make any money if they're not raising prices at some point with this high fuel cost.
So we'd like to think that we'd see a little more price activity there but again I can't speak on their behalf.
So -- and we have seen some spots in some markets where things have gotten more competitive by I would say across the board both large and small even a couple of national companies that have been maybe overly opportunistic in a couple of spots.
I mentioned those couple of big MSW disposal contracts we lost.
We were a little surprised that -- at the rates that those contracts were let for.
So the national account I spoke of our margins were very very thin there.
We enjoyed a 7-year relationship with that national account.
We did a lot of good work for them continued to reduce their price build their efficiency recycle more waste and we were a little surprised by what happened there.
And when we met with them it was just strictly a price issue.
And we just weren't willing to lower price any further.
So we're going to continue to be diligent raising prices as I said before.
We're going to safeguard our infrastructure.
We're not going to give it away to undercapitalized competitors and we're going to continue to fight hard in the marketplace.
So that's the state of the business.
And obviously I think a lot of this is resolved if the economy does take off and some of the things you read about actually come true but we don't have that crystal ball.
So if the economy improves we think market behavior improves and then we think -- I think we all win from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then another question that's also related to the competitive landscape.
Is the M&amp;A pipeline robust because smaller players are putting their hands up more than they used to? Or is it because you've gotten more aggressive in pursuing these targets? Or is it a little of both? Yes I don't know I think it's tax planning.
I think it's succession planning.
And we've got many many stories from some of our sellers.
They want to move on to a different part of their life.
They're concerned about taxes and the change in tax law.
There's a lot of different stores there.
But we think it's a robust pipeline.
And as we said before we think we can take advantage of kind of a steady diet of acquisitions over the next several years in  and around the $100 million a year range at a very good multiple.
It's a very good use of our cash and there are some very nice businesses out there that we're going to be looking at over that period of time.
So we've had a lot of good success and we'll continue that.
And our next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about the sort of things that are happening in the macro marketplace? And I'm probably going to exceed my 2 question thing as we do this but let's try.
We're hearing special waste activity has now settled into normal routine special waste ex stimulus-driven.
If you're in the right geographies there is oil field waste activity.
MSW has kind of found a level but it's not really recovering it's just kind of hanging.
When you listen to other calls and talk to private players and what have you what's your view of that kind of environment? Yes Michael.
Special waste is good for us.
It's relatively flat to last year.
We are getting our fair share of the natural gas drilling waste.
Again 2 or 3 years ago we had none we had no revenue from that business.
Today it's a nice little business for us we focus on it.
But as you said we're not in all geographies.
So what's going on in North Dakota is kind of a neat story and a headline but we're not in North Dakota so we don't get to take advantage of that volume.
The rolloff business has been decent for us.
We've talked about the industrial strengths we saw last year in coming through Q4.
We just haven't necessarily seen it get stronger.
People ask me what about automotive? And frankly we're not a big player in automotive.
The margins in that business tend to be very small automotive companies tend to be sort of very aggressive purchasers of services and it's not been a big segment for us.
So I can't really speak to that.
Construction we had a good seasonal -- I mean more than expected seasonal activity and temp rolloff in Q1 but we also had no winter.
So we're not going to hang our hat on that thinking that's the baseline to go forward from.
We have -- we think some belief that some of that was pull forward roofing jobs slight constructions for some early spring cleanup.
So we're not so sure about what that means yet for the year.
And as you know we don't really see true seasonality until May and June and that's when we can really tell you what's happening there.
Commercial is kind of flattish still a little bit down and we've had improving volume for a lot of sequential quarters in the collection business.
We just haven't been able to come over the top and turn positive yet.
So I don't think -- I don't know if the economy is getting worse but it's not -- I don't really see it getting too much better and it's certainly not getting as when we posted original guidance.
We thought it was getting a little better at more of a rapid rate.
So some of this is about velocity of change.
And we're just -- we're not willing to go further in the year with our former guidance based on what we're seeing today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then understanding the 150 basis point impact in EBITDA on the revised guidance...
It's 100 basis points.
It's [indiscernible] 30.5 to 29.5 with 19 basis points of that coming out of cost.
Commodities is a positive 20 basis points.
And then dropping the price is probably a negative 30 basis points from say 1.5% down to about 1%.
That's kind of how we get to 100 basis points.
And the first quarter's margin is obviously driven very much by the normal seasonal makeup of the business as we described earlier.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I guess part of the question I was going to -- and thank you for that information to ask about the maintenance -- the 4 items you identified earlier the maintenance fuel work day and SG&amp;A the maintenance and the work day would have seemed to have been known back on February 9 where I get the fuel and the SG&amp;A were maybe things that can happen later in the quarter but...
Well the maintenance wasn't really known.
I think that this is something that has continued to evolve as we've gone from a few pilot locations to a broader rollout.
Yes that's a thing you've got to understand Michael we fanned out here right? So we've gained speed and traction.
So we went from a handful of facilities and now we're multiplying them with facilities we're touching and that's where we started to see this thing ramp up.
And again we could've -- we could make 2 choices right? We could say hey stop slow down.
But again as I said earlier we believe we've got to get through this.
We believe -- as you know I mean look at our operating cost we're -- we've got strong margins we're good operators.
To get to the next level of efficiency and customer experience we need to have better fleet reliability.
And then that part of that is moving to as I said more programmatic maintenance and planned maintenance versus reactive maintenance.
And what that means is you've got to sort of move through that phase.
And so there's a little bit of sort of maintenance catch up to get you to that point where your fleet availability and uptime improves your road calls decrease and you're really doing planned maintenance.
And so that's -- it's a lot of work it's a real high touch real high change change management process but we don't think we can put it off.
We think we need to move through it and I think it's going to pay dividends in a lot of ways: customer experience productivity driver morale even frankly mechanic retention.
Mechanics are hard to come by.
Good mechanics want to work for a company that takes maintenance seriously the way we are and it's all going to pay dividends.
Just it's going to take some time and we've got to make the investment.
So I mean it's the right thing to do and we didn't feel it was a good thing to say "Hey this is harder than we thought a little more expensive let's stop." And we think that frankly would've negatively impacted the morale of the business and the future of the business.
Michael I mean you have a good question there in terms of our visibility I guess a couple of months ago.
And again when you look at this we've got an impact of about $0.06 in price.
And that's something that has really just emerged here I would say in the last 30 days to 45 days at the most.
And then the volume is the same sort of thing.
I mean that's just a very current thing that we're realizing.
The commodity is obviously a positive.
That's about $0.03.
And then when you look at this $0.12 of cost increase.
The fuel we didn't anticipate.
We were very explicit in the guidance there.
I think the maintenance for containers was something as Don indicated is something that has evolved recently and the container maintenance is just a smart thing to do from a cash standpoint.
So a lot of these costs are things that are more current in nature.
Now we also have some positive things.
Our original tax guidance was 39%.
And in interest also I think the credit markets are probably a little bit more favorable.
So we've got a little bit of a benefit we think on taxes and also on interest.
And in fact as -- we've got a number of open tax years.
We got 3 cycles we've got some other planning issues and opportunities.
So we may do a little bit better than that.
But again these are things that have recently unfolded.
And we frankly Don and I talked about should we adjust the guidance now or should we wait until mid-summer which is our traditional practice.
And our feeling was with the $0.38 first quarter and our knowledge that something dramatic would have to change in the second half of the year to meet the guidance and the fact is there's a rhythm to the quarterly earnings in this business absent some external influence.
We felt that it was appropriate to be upfront and direct there with the guidance rather than waiting until July.
Yes again historically and as we said we're going to earn 47% 48% in the first half and the remainder in the second half.
And there's not enough change in the macro situation to generate that additional earning.
There has been these couple of big volume losses that we've experienced here just recently that we have to sort of admit to ourselves.
And then there's a couple of decisions that we made to continue to spend appropriately on these other initiatives.
And then one other thing I'd say on the cost side is the landfill costs are up.
We saw a lot of leachate in the Midwest and the Northeast.
And one of the questions is "Well gee does that mean that leachate in the second quarter is going to be less?" Well it continues to rain in the second quarter and we felt that while that's a onetime item it doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to be lower later on.
So that's in our guidance also.
Michael I would just tell you we tell you what we know when we know it.
And that's what we did when we did guidance.
We do every year that's what we're doing now.
And then we'll work through it and then we'll keep you informed.
And our next question comes from Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll just echo Michael's comments.
And I just -- to totally beat the maintenance to death but I just want to understand the rollout to the facilities to your major facilities does that kind of continue to ramp up through the year? I was just trying to understand kind of when that might inflect down.
And are you -- will you still be ramping up next year? Okay.
You know what great question.
So the plan as we have it today is that we would impact 40% of our fleet this year right? It would be landing in the divisions that represent 40% of our trucks another 30% in '13 another 30% in '14.
We may ebb and flow that sort of depending on progress but that's rough numbers right? So what we're seeing is kind of a 9-month hill decline there of some additional expense to get to that promised land of scheduled maintenance and so on.
And so that's what we're experiencing.
And we're seeing that in Q1 and we think that's how it's going to progress throughout the year.
So we -- that's it.
Within 3 years we'll be through it.
And then we'll be gaining benefit throughout the rollout at some point as these divisions get certified and are operating at a new level of performance we'll begin to benefit from the productivity gains and so on and so forth.
Some of our test divisions that have been through it last year we've seen the improvement in things like inventory driver morale turnover where's a lot of good benefits.
Some of them a little softer than others but that's the cadence we're on.
And the other thing I would say Bill is we're managing the business for the long-term.
We know this is the right thing to do.
And while it's difficult to swallow this additional $18 million $19 million of cost this year it's important that we stay the course.
And we're committed to that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And  just unrelated though and kind of a  minor thing but on that -- the 60 basis points of price on that collection side were you still negative on the residential side? $0.06.
Price was 30 basis points on the margin.
$0.06 of earnings.
I think he's talking about reported [indiscernible].
Oh I'm sorry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Reported price yes.
E.
Reported okay.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So a little color on like was residential still negative just how that was kind of comprised? Well a little color I guess collection -- total collection's positive.
Commercial is still a little negative.
Industrial is positive.
Residential is actually positive this quarter.
So again landfill again was a bright spot.
I know you didn't ask me that but I'll tell you again landfill was the 2.6% total or 3.4% for the quarter.
So 3.4% total and MSW was 2.6%.
So we had good special waste pricing as well.
We had -- not only did we maintain our special waste volumes but we saw price go up in special waste for the quarter.
So that was nice to have.
And our next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> On the -- related to the maintenance I saw there was a small acquisition in the quarter or at least $20 million I think was the cash acquisition price.
Is that related to the recycling initiatives? Or what type of -- could you just shed a little color on what are the minor acquisitions? No that was tuck-in acquisitions.
We did talk about $65 million of acquisition price and $40 million of revenue through April because we had probably the largest single transaction that we've done this year close on -- it was on I think April 2.
So what we've been buying this year are tuck-in acquisitions on the hauling side.
Yes that's right.
Again just to say we're not -- not to say that all of our acquisitions will be collection or hauling.
I mean we are looking at some other recycling-based infrastructure et cetera.
But so far this year it's been in collection.
And  we've got a strong pipeline there.
So we are -- again our original guidance there was $50 million to $100 million of purchase price.
We're at about $65 million with a strong pipeline ahead of us.
Research Division</strong> Is there any pullback from the recycling multiyear top 25 market initiatives? Or where are you at in that thought process? No pullback.
Again we do believe that the waste stream is changing that customer demand is changing.
And I'll just use a minute here to remind everybody.
There are some very interesting things that we look at that are very global macro across the whole company.
But when we look at investing in the business and recycling we look very distinctly at the marketplace.
And we have 240 distinct unique markets across Republic Services.
And those markets are changing at different speeds.
And we're -- it's our job to understand what's changing and the velocity to change.
So we have earmarked again about 10% of those markets or 25 markets that we think we'll invest in over the next 5 years.
And it's kind of a dynamic list.
There are some things moving up and down in that list of 25.
But we're on track to make investments in about 5 markets this year.
As I said we just completed in Q1 the renovation of our Anaheim facility which will increase our recycling capacity there.
Our recycling tons in total are up in Q1 5% same-store right? So that is part of the business that's growing.
And we can't deny that customer demand is changing and we need to be in that space so we can provide all those solutions in or around the waste stream that our customers need and we're committed to doing that.
Research Division</strong> On the large national account.
I guess when your competitor made the announcement on the acquisition there was some value or amount that was a so-called potentially-at-risk on revenue.
Are we -- have you cleared all of that what you view at-risk with the definition of value-at-risk as maybe something you know about or something that's coming up for contract negotiation? Yes Al we've disclosed everything that we know about as far as all these contracts.
Right.
As you can appreciate Al every year we enter in a business plan and we have contracts that are being renewed.
And we have to look at trends in the business.
We've got to look at how far we think we are along in extension negotiations.
And we've got to then sort of budget an amount.
And we think we're going to retain x% of these customers.
We already know we're on the -- well down the path to retain certain ones.
Some are more at-risk and we budget for a certain amount of business loss business gains service reduction.
We have to obviously take a stab at that.
In the case of this large national store again we -- as I said we had a 7-year relationship that we thought was very strong.
We've done a lot of good work for the client.
And when we put our budget together we were convinced frankly that we're going to extend the business based on the work we've done and we were wrong.
There was something else afoot and there was somebody with a dramatically different price structure apparently than we had.
That happens and that's the nature of that.
Yes.
And the only thing I would say is we've got a very strong pro forma discipline for either bids or acquisitions which we've applied to this large account.
We know what our investment is we know what the returns are.
And with an existing customer we would want to retain it so we might stretch there because we know the risks.
We know what the waste stream is.
But when you get to the point where it becomes a little bit irrational we have to have a walk away.
And that's what we did.
When you're an incumbent you tend to know all the costs.
And so we still believe in the national accounts' business.
We've got a decent pipeline of opportunities both nationally and regionally that we're working on.
And we've got many many national account clients that we're working very diligent with on managing their waste stream and so forth.
So we're continuing to do the work and it's just again as we've said before it's a competitive business.
It always has been it always will be.
And sometimes a couple of these things take you by surprise.
Research Division</strong> Then if I may finally -- sorry for the multiple question part.
But on the margin front EBITDA in particular given some of these falloffs and walk away from and contract issues it would suggest given that they were multiyear contracts or relationships that -- and the lack of volume in the market that the opportunity for margin expansion beyond even '12 at the moment is going to be something you got your work cut out for you.
Well we thought -- remember what Don said earlier.
We have a whole series of other initiatives that will give us multiyear margin expansion.
So when you look at automation when you look at CNG when we look at this maintenance initiative which -- well it’s a little bit of a headwind that we'll get over that hurdle.
So there are some productivity operating opportunities there and we are continuing to price increase.
So some of what we're seeing on the margin is kind of short term in the quarter which affects the full year.
Some are kind of annual in basis or in the maintenance situation in fuel it's a little bit longer term.
But there are opportunities to expand the margin.
Sure.
Al I mentioned in my comments our safety frequency improved by 4.4% again in the quarter.
We've deployed more automation.
We ended last year at 59% of our resi fleet was automated.
Our goal this year is to get it to 63% I think.
Ultimately we'll get it over 80%.
We're going to continue to invest accordingly and that CNG is a good investment for us.
Our overall headcount in Q1 was less than it was in Q4.
So we are obviously good cost managers.
We're tracking those kind of metrics across the business and the strategy really the company hasn't changed and that's it in a nutshell.
And that's all the time we have for questions today and we'll now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Well thank you Gabby.
In closing I'd like to thank the entire Republic team for their continued hard work and dedication in the first quarter.
We remain focused on the business fundamentals required to improve our return on invested capital and further position our company to grow across all lines of business.
As a reminder a recording of this call will be available through May 3 2012 by calling (203) 369-1833 and using a passcode of 4589.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live web.
Thank you for spending time with us today.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services' conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the second quarter 2012 call for investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Victor.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our second quarter performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is July 26 2012.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services' second quarter performance.
I will now review our second quarter financial performance before discussing our updated 2012 guidance.
Revenue approximately $2.1 billion.
Core price growth in the quarter was 0.6% which was in line with our expectations.
MSW landfill price was 2.4%.
Volumes decreased by 1.3% a majority of the volume decline can be attributed to a loss of Oakleaf and the large national account both of which we discussed in April.
Our second quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.59.
Approximately $0.09 of our earnings resulted from a favorable tax rate.
All material tax disputes have now been resolved.
Our adjusted free cash flow was $156 million.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin was 30.3% and SG&amp;A was 9.6%.
We repurchased 5.3 million shares in the second quarter for $141 million.
We have approximately $480 million remaining under our authorization through 2013.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
Total cash returned to the shareholders was $223 million during the second quarter.
Our Board of Directors has approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.235 per share which is a 7% increase.
Some of our achievements during the second quarter include: Our safety performance continues to improve with a 3.5% favorable reduction in our frequency rate.
We have closed on $73 million of acquisitions through June 30 that represents $47 million of annual run rate revenue.
We remain on track to complete $100 million of acquisitions for the full year which was the high end of our guidance range.
Our pipeline remains strong for future growth acquisition.
We continue to invest in fleet automation and converting the fleet to CNG.
As of June 30 61% of our residential routes are now automated and we have placed 223 CNG vehicles into service.
In April we opened a single stream processing facility in Jacksonville Florida that increased our capacity in that market by 90 000 tons per year.
Our largest single stream recycling facility which services the San Jose market went into operation in July.
This startup coincides with converting the city of San Jose commercial and industrial collection service offerings from open market to franchise.
In May we completed a debt refinancing and renewed our 5-year bank facility at lower rates which together reduce our annual interest expense by approximately $25 million.
Republic does not have a material debt maturity until 2016.
Tod and Ed will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
As Don indicated second quarter revenue of approximately $2.1 billion reflects the following components of internal growth: First core price growth of 0.6%.
This level of core price was consistent with our Q1 performance and is also in line with our expectations.
Core price is positive in both the collection and disposal businesses [Audio Gap] higher prices in the disposal business due to landfill MSW price increases of 2.4%.
We expect price levels to be comparable between the first and second quarters which was the case and we expect prices to modestly rise in the second half of the year as the impact from higher CPI-based pricing takes hold on our restricted customer base.
Our fuel recovery fee decreased by 0.1%.
The decrease in fuel recovery fees relates to a decrease in fuel cost.
The average price per gallon of diesel declined to $3.95 in Q2 2012 from $4.01 in the prior year a decrease of 1.5%.
Commodity revenue decreased 1%.
Commodity prices decreased by 16% to an average price of $122 a ton in Q2 from $146 per ton in the prior year due to recycling facility commodity volume of 540 000 tons was up 2.1% from the prior year and up 1.8% on a same-store basis.
Our current commodity prices are approximately $112 per ton which is down from the guidance we provided in April of $129 per ton.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS which includes the impact of our recycling facility and collection businesses.
Turning to volume.
Q2 volumes decreased by 130 basis points year-over-year.
Most of the decline relates to a few specific losses including the Oakleaf business and a large national account.
Our collection business volumes were down 0.3%.
Excluding the losses I just mentioned our total collection volume was actually positive.
Disposal volumes were down 4.7% versus the prior year which relates primarily to MSW tons at our transfer stations and landfills.
Again this relates primarily to a lost municipal contracts in prior quarters and also the competitive pressures in our L.A.
market which we discussed back in April.
In Q2 special waste volumes were essentially flat with the prior year and we did not see the typical seasonal increase in landfill C&amp;D volumes.
Now I will discuss the second quarter year-over-year margin.
Q2 2012 adjusted EBITDA margin was 30.3% compared to 31.1% in the prior year.
This is an 80-basis point decrease.
Some of the more significant changes in margins include: First labor.
A 60 basis point increase in expense is mostly due to normal increases in wages and health care cost and also a change in our revenue mix.
Disposal volumes commodity revenues and subcontract revenues are down which have little or no variable labor cost.
Additionally there is an increase of about 10 basis points related to work stoppages that occurred during the first quarter.
Improvements in collection labor productivity partially offset the increase in labor cost primarily in the residential business through automation.
Second disposal.
The improvement of 30 basis points relates to decreased disposal expense primarily due to an increase in internalization.
Third our maintenance cost.
The 70 basis point increase in maintenance expense relates to implementation costs associated with our One Fleet maintenance initiative an increase in the cost of tires across our supplier base and also the refurbishing of containers versus purchasing new containers which from a cash standpoint is an efficient operating practice.
Next fuel.
The 20 basis point improvement is due to a 1.5% decrease in the cost of diesel.
After considering the impact of related fuel recovery fees the net margin improvement was 10 basis points.
The current cost of diesel is approximately $3.78 per gallon which is down from guidance we provided in April of $4.13 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.10 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which includes the impact of fuel recovery fees.
Finally cost of goods sold.
The 30 basis point improvement relates to a reduction in rebates paid for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold decreased to an average of $39 per ton from $48 per ton in the prior year.
While the change in cost was favorable when you consider the decrease in related commodity revenues there was a 40 basis point decline in EBITDA margin.
Our second quarter 2002 SG&amp;A of 9.6% was consistent with the prior year.
We expect our full year SG&amp;A expense to be consistent with our previous guidance at slightly above 10% of revenue.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.4% in the current quarter -- current year versus 10.9% in the prior year.
The 50 basis point increase in expense primarily relates to a landfill liability adjustments recorded in the current quarter for sites that have already closed.
Additionally the prior year included the favorable impact of expansions granted which should not repeat in the current quarter.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense taxes and our free cash flow.
Thanks Tod.
Second quarter 2012 interest expense was $99 million which included $15 million of noncash amortization.
As Don mentioned we called $750 million of senior notes due in 2017 and issued new debt for 10 years at a rate of 3.55%.
This lower rate will reduce annual cash interest expense by approximately $23 million.
We also renewed our 5-year bank facility at lower pricing that will generate over $2 million in annual savings.
Our EPS guidance included the favorable impact of refinancing this debt but excluded any premiums paid or debt discounts written off in connection with early extinguishments.
Our annual run rate interest expense after the refinancing is approximately $385 million of which $55 million is noncash.
Our refinancing activity since December 2008 which have benefited from our investment grade status in low rate environment have reduced annual interest expense by approximately $230 million.
We have now completed all significant refinancing transactions.
I will now discuss taxes.
Our second quarter 2012 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by finalizing Allied's 2002 exchange of partnership interest matter and favorably resolving other tax matters including closing out open federal tax years through 2008.
In April we guided to a 37% full year 2012 effective tax rate.
This included the benefit from finalizing the exchange of partnership interest matter since we were in the late stages of negotiations with the IRS.
We did not include the other tax matters which resulted in about $0.03 of additional EPS.
We now expect a full year 2012 tax rate of approximately 36%.
We expect the second half of 2012 effective tax rate to be approximately 40%.
To summarize the tax impact we saw a $0.09 benefit in the second quarter relative to the 37% full year tax rate we provided in April.
We expect $0.06 of this benefit to flip in the second half of the year since we are expecting a second half tax rate of approximately 40%.
The net impact versus the April guidance is a positive $0.03 which is the amount by which we raise the top end of our EPS guidance range.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Year-to-date 2012 adjusted free cash flow was $331 million which consisted of cash provided by operating activities of $695 million less property and equipment received of $458 million plus proceeds from the sale of property of $21 million plus merger-related expenditures net of tax of $41 million plus Allied cash tax settlements of $34 million less cash tax benefit from debt extinguishment of $5 million plus divestiture-related tax payments of $1 million plus central states cost net of tax of $2 million.
Therefore adjusted free cash flow equals $331 million.
Free cash flow timing tends to vary by quarter in particular due to the capital expenditures and changes in working capital.
We remain comfortable with our guidance of approximately $775 million of full year 2012 adjusted free cash flow.
Now I will discuss the balance sheet.
At June 30 our accounts receivable balance was $845 million and our days sales outstanding was 37 days or 23 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7.1 billion at June 30 and excess credit available under our bank facility was approximately $1.3 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
I would like to update our 2012 guidance.
We are maintaining our free cash flow guidance of $775 million.
This level of free cash flow is consistent with our original guidance and demonstrates a strong predictable cash flows generated by the business.
Due to the successful resolution of open tax years we are raising our adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $1.91 to $1.93.
We expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 36%.
To sum it all up we are on track.
I want to leave you with a couple of key points.
In the beginning of the year we anticipated a steadily improving economy as a backdrop for the price and volume growth.
While the economy has not given us the support we expected the industry remains rational and we have effectively managed cost to generate EBITDA margin in excess of 30%.
Our free cash flow remains strong and predictable.
We continue to invest in accretive tuck-in acquisitions and return substantial cash to our shareholders.
Republic's business and financial strategies remain focused on return on capital and free cash flow improvement.
I would like to thank the Republic employees for their dedication to operational excellence they've shown throughout the year.
At this time operator we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just -- Don on maintenance costs you had a big uptick last quarter in maintenance spend.
What are you doing on maintenance costs for the balance of the year? Are you guys spreading that out more or what's the update on that? Sure.
So we continued to roll out our maintenance initiative on track to the first half of the year.
We'd already started some divisions that we couldn't pull back on.
We've kind of moderated our approach through the remainder of the year.
We're stretching basically the initiative out from a 3-year to a 4-year initiative.
We're reducing the number of divisions that we're rolling out in the second half of the year.
We were doing 12 a quarter we'll be doing 8 a quarter in Q3.
And I think maybe even 7 -- 6 or 7 in the last quarter of the year.
So we're just taking a little slower approach to it and we're absorbing the cost at a slower pace.
We're still very committed to the initiative it's the right thing to do for the fleet for productivity for safety and for customer experience but we're just slowing down the absorption rate of the change Hamzah.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just a follow-up on the volume side any change in the volume environment? Are you seeing it get more competitive? Maybe you can talk about the commercial business service increases versus decreases.
And on the special waste side is that pipeline still pretty firm? I think Hamzah in terms of service changes it's been pretty consistent with previous quarters meaning flat on a net basis.
So we're not seeing anything as far as net step-up in volume related to service changes.
Well as far as our volume expectations for the full year we expect it to be flat to maybe slightly negative.
One of the things I think we saw and we always talk about is -- in the first quarter where we saw some C&amp;D activity a little bit early you couldn't really tell if that was the economy or the weather and really I think now that after we look at the Q2 volume performance what you could say is that there's a little bit of a pull forward in Q1 on C&amp;D activity because there really was not a seasonal step up above the Q1 levels in Q2.
What we really did we just pulled forward some of that activity.
So...
And Hamzah as far as special waste goes with the pipelines in pretty good shape I mean we think we're seeing the same kind of activity in special waste for the remainder of the year.
And -- go ahead what's your question? Research Division</strong> I was saying on special waste do you guys have any government business that's getting deferred or not really? We do have some government business.
And so we're probably will be some deferrals of some special waste work and that probably is -- it is discretionary spend so as we saw a couple of years ago we have seen some deferrals of special waste projects.
So the work is still there.
It's just being slowed down a bit as folks kind of hold on to the dollars.
I think also one thing I'd like to just also make clear as we look in the second half of the year that the Q3 volume performance will be negatively impacted due to 1 less work day.
However we make that up in the fourth quarter because Q4 as an additional work day.
So on a net basis it evens out but it will impact the reported volume performance in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Question on the guidance.
So I think I'm getting the moving pieces with the taxes but if you would listen to what you said about the impact of commodity prices in fuel it seems like you'd have a net drag from lower commodity prices yet you didn't change the guidance other than the tax impact.
So what is enabling you to offset the impact of lower commodity prices than you factored in before? Corey this is Tod.
I think we're a little tighter the cost obviously.
When we saw those higher maintenance costs coming in the first quarter well it took us a quarter to adjust.
The organization is very committed to the maintenance initiative but also we're adjusting the pace and looking closely at those costs as well as other cost in the business.
And fuel commodity is kind of offset in the second...
Yes that's right.
There's a net of fuel in commodity.
So there's not too much of an impact there.
So we are very focused on the core business and obviously running the business efficiently.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the price Don you used the word rational but I was hoping you could collaborate on what you're seeing kind of incrementally moving through the year as far as the competitive pricing environment particularly interested in national accounts and the municipals -- the municipal sides? I would tell you it's very much the same we've been seeing.
The one national account loss we highlighted last quarter was as we told you somewhat of an anomaly was our largest national account.
Our next large national account is less than half the size of that right? So I think it's about 1/4 the size of it.
We're not seeing any increased activity there.
The municipal sector is very similar right? The way it's been.
The attitude of municipal buyers isn't going to change their state of finance isn't really going to change until they get some help from the economy.
And so when their tax base improves they'll be less sensitive to pricing and we'll have to live with that for a while.
But we're not seeing anything being materially better.
We're certainly not seeing anything materially worse.
The only benefit of course that's obvious is the benefit of CPI increasing in the second half of the year.
So generally competitively things are pretty stable.
And we're doing our part to keep our volume up and protect our business and cash flow and try to grow where we can.
And Corey just as to how the resets in the restricted markets will impact reported price we're expecting obviously first half of the year pricing was 0.6% and we expect pricing in the second half of the year to be in the neighborhood of about 1% and that step-up is really being driven by the CPI resets in the restricted markets we have.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up or maybe an incremental on the previous question.
Don in terms of the customer base are you hearing anything incrementally more rationally positive? Or is it as expected and therefore sort of a flattish tone on the volume comment? Yes I would say flattish.
As far as volume goes we just don't see the economic lift that we had hoped when we first built our business plan.
As far as pricing there's still some sensitivity as I said because the economy is not improving.
We continue to maintain our cadence of price increases out across the marketplace.
So we're staying really true to our strategy and our business plan and we haven't seen anything change for the better or worse really.
Research Division</strong> If you had to pick a more positive or constructive tone geographically on one that was less constructive on a tone geographically where would those regions be in your markets? Well I think pricing is pretty consistent across the board.
I think the volume tends to be in and around where the energy business is raging right? Exactly as Don mentioned.
Those geographies tied to energy are heavy manufacturing.
I think we've seen the best volume performance in some of the locations in the Southwest and in our Midwest locations are probably faring better than the West and some places in the East Coast particularly the Southeast.
Those markets that were more tied to the kind of what's called the overheated real estate markets are still lagging due to the excess capacity or inventory in those particular markets.
Research Division</strong> If I may let me slide one more in just on the municipality in particular with the number of bankruptcies in the lovely state of California and other places are there any opportunities or opportunities for the sector or for you specifically as a result of that? Or is it just sort of business as usual? No I think we've talked about privatization in the past and we've successfully privatized a city in the Midwest last year.
We have a small pipeline of opportunities here that were working.
But if you could appreciate that the sale cycle on those is quite a bit longer than a typical sale of a rebid or an extension of an existing municipal account.
So we'll continue to work on that though it's not really our headline but we think there could be some opportunity there for us eventually.
Our next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> If we could come back to the free cash flow outlook my take away is your reaffirming that guidance.
I'd like to understand what do we need to do? Where does that incremental $440 million roughly come from as you think about the makeup in the second half? What drives that how much is working capital versus...
Michael what you have typically is our capital spend in the first half of the year was higher than our annual target of about $830 million.
You also get the first quarter which is seasonally weak with a little bit of a negative working capital in that first quarter and then taxes also tend to be volatile quarter by quarter.
And then Q3 is usually our strongest quarter as far as volumes through the year.
And then just simply from the timing of some incentive comp payment that were made early in the year along with some other matters that kind of cleared the books.
So I don't think there's anything structural about the business that's different it was just that some timing issues of certain cash flows in the first half of the year.
First quarter is always a weak working capital quarter because of what I've mentioned there.
The other thing that I would say is as we had said in April we were reaffirming that $775 million a little bit better outcome than we thought on taxes.
So we're very very confident with that free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's terrific.
And then Don and all of you if the business environment you live with right now it's in July where the paper is your pricing outlook volumes what is your perspective on what 2013 looks like? We're not giving 2013 guidance but we've got a lot of good things going on with the business that will certainly anniversary rollover into 2013.
Again I can't predict fuel and commodity prices.
What I can say is we're getting 0.6% price in the quarter first half of the year moving upward in the second half.
We're holding our own on volume we've got good productivity initiatives in place we'll continue to invest in.
We've got the acquisition machine kind of up and running now we'll have the benefit of those things rolling through.
So I'm pretty positive that we're doing all the right things.
We'd like to have some help from the economy and again we're not economists.
So when the economy improves the pricing dynamic in the market will get better customer sentiment will get better commodities will get better.
Those kinds of things will give us some tailwind.
But in the meantime we're doing the right thing so I think it shows up in our margin.
And ultimately it always shows up in our cash flow.
Our next question comes from Scott Levine with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Quick question just a clarification.
Did you say that the Oakleaf and the contract losses without the impact of those that you guys would have been roughly flat on volumes or said another way what is the volume impact associated with those contracts and should we expect that to anniversary by the first quarter of 2013? You're talking about a couple of different items and they have different timing.
So I think it'll start to anniversary in early '13 some of these other items won't be until mid-'13 and obviously when we give guidance next year we'll talk specifically as to how those particular items will impact our guidance.
So that large national account took place in May.
So we'll anniversary that sometime in May right.
The Oakleaf loss started in the fourth quarter last year it can continue to trickle in the first quarter.
I think we're pretty much done with it by the end of the first quarter most of that business that the Oakleaf internalized.
We have a disposable piece that anniversaries out by June mid-year.
The other thing from a volume standpoint is again I think what Ed and Don said earlier on the seasonal lift that we saw definitely some pull forward there in the C&amp;D activity in the first quarter.
Second quarter lift the seasonal lift this year was more muted than last year's seasonal lift.
So certainly we're seeing a little bit of drag from C&amp;D and then while we have a robust pipeline there seems to be a little bit of deferral wait-and-see on the special waste.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And as my follow-up on pricing just to clarify are you guys seeing that you expect pricing of 1-ish percent in the back half or 1% for the full year? And then as a tack-on would the effect of CPI-linked pricing going up should that accelerate or gain momentum into 2013 implying upward momentum in prices you enter that year or...
Again we're not going to give guidance on '13.
So as I say we will see in the second half of the year about a 40 basis point average step-up first half to second half.
But we're not going to give guidance on '13.
I think what happens is if you kind of put the whole year together pricing for the full year is about 1% for the full year maybe a few basis points under but it's about 1% with that split in the first half and second half driven by increases in the restricted markets.
Our next question comes from Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Don just on some of the acquisition you've done are they mostly just tuck-in hauling operations or you're buying some recycling facilities or what types of things you're looking at? Yes they're  primarily tuck-in hauling.
But we did have 1 recycler that we brought here in recent history.
But again primarily tuck-in hauling in markets we're already in.
They tend to have the best returns post-synergy lowest risk et cetera and we're buying them at good multiples.
So that's probably the biggest part of the pipeline Bill.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on a follow-up.
On that the 60 basis points of price was the industrial and disposal side better than the average and commercial residential below or just try to give some color on that.
As far as the...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the components of like the segments were industrial and disposal a little better than the average? Disposal has really been a bright spot for us specifically MSW right? So when you think about our pricing strategy one of the things we've continued to do is price our infrastructure correctly our MSW price was 2.5% -- 2.4% as Tod said.
That really is a strong point.
Collection was pretty consistent with the way it's been probably industrial being the brightest spot there for us on the collection side.
Your next question comes from Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple follow-ups really.
I wasn't sure I caught the exact answer on something asked earlier with Oakleaf and the one national account causing the volume decline.
Did I hear the volumes have otherwise has been positive or flat or is any chance you could give us the exact normalized figures? Can that be calculated? I would say a majority of the volume decline was related to Oakleaf and the national account.
There were keep in mind we did not see the seasonal uptick in C&amp;D and Tod also spoke to some of the deferral of the special waste volumes.
There was a component of the volume decline that was related to other lines of business beyond those lost businesses we talked about in the April call.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
With the latest dividend raise which is now the norm which is nice to see how does it look for a higher buyback authorization the next time the Board meets? And I guess as part of the same question given the pipeline is still strong for future M&amp;A do you see the amount allocated to M&amp;A possibly going up next year as well? Well first on the buyback right? This authorization we're living under gets us through 2013.
So we got plenty of capacity there.
As far as the acquisitions go 2 years ago we did 0 in acquisitions last year about $50 million and this year $100 million.
So that's kind of what we're  looking at for this year and as we look at the pipeline and look at our business plan for next year we'll come back to you.
Again we're not going to give '13 guidance.
But our goal really is to focus on our core business.
The markets we're in we don't want to be distracted in other areas.
And that $100 million or so is a nice -- we think a kind of a steady diet of acquisition pace for us today.
And that's the way we see it as we sit here today.
We entered this year with $650 million share repurchase authorization.
So if you were to split that evenly between '12 and '13 we got 3.25 for the share repurchase and then the dividend is probably somewhere between 3.25 and 3.40.
So we're returning $650 million $660 million which is 6.5% 7% cash yield to the owners.
And then the balance is the acquisitions $100 million $100 million-plus of spend that Don mentioned.
So the math is pretty simple in terms of our 775-plus of free cash flow.
Yes.
Our formula for success really hasn't changed over the long-term.
And we talk about being ROI focused.
We talk about maintaining a strong credit profile having a balanced approach to our return cash to shareholders.
We've continued to demonstrate that with the stock repurchase with the dividend raise.
And on the acquisition front we've always said that we've got flexibility financially.
If something comes along that's a little bit bigger that really fits our marketplace and we can do it at the right price.
Then we have a flexibility to do that and we've got the Board's support to do that.
So having said that steady as she goes here and that's really the message of the call.
Research Division</strong> And just one other quick follow-up.
Without asking for 2013 guidance just given what you know about the contract structure and what's already happened with the CPI.
Without even getting to 2013 is the CPI impact going to be increasing through the second half of the year kind of accelerating given what you know historically about the CPI? I think as you know Vance what's happening in the CPI today takes about 12 or 18 months to move into our restricted pricing.
So we really have a pretty good handle as to what the resets will be for the second half of 2012 and that's been reflected already in the comments we've made.
But just like if anybody's out there looking over multi-year period always keep in mind that whatever happening in CPI in calendar '12 doesn't really start to impact our pricing until the second half of '13.
Our next question comes from Adam Thalhimer from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand the $0.59 adjusted why wouldn't you back out the tax gain from that? Well we did.
I mean that's why we called it out saying $0.09 was the impact.
So if you want to look at the EPS from ongoing operations it was $0.50.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was probably somewhere in the 24% 25% range.
And again that's a function of us closing out some open tax years from 2004 to 2008.
So it's obviously not an ongoing tax rate.
Hence as Ed had said we've got a $0.09 benefit in the quarter the tax rate goes back up to about 40% in the second half of the year so 6 of that cents come back in the second half and the net benefit to the company the full year is $0.03.
Correct.
We have just given previous guidance to investors stating that the average tax rate this year would be 37.
With the resolution of the items we mentioned the full year effective tax rate is going to be 36 which is an additional $0.03 of EPS.
So we're just making those adjustments to update the guidance that was previously given.
This time I'm showing no further questions.
Okay.
Thank you operator.
In closing I would like to thank the entire Republic team for our performance in the second quarter.
If you're listening keep up the good work.
We remain focused on the business fundamentals required to improve our returns on invested capital and further position Republic Services to grow across all lines of business.
As a reminder a recording of this call will be available through August 3 2012 by calling (203) 369-1011 and using the passcode 4589.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at www.republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investors conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services' conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the third quarter 2012 call for investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Tod Holmes CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Anna.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Tod Holmes our CFO are joining me as we discuss our third quarter performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
Additionally the material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is November 1 2012.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services' third quarter performance.
I will review financial and operating results before discussing our updated 2012 guidance and preliminary 2013 outlook.
We recorded revenue of approximately $2 billion.
Core price growth in the quarter was 1% which was in line with our expectations and an increase of 40 basis points versus Q2.
Net price increase to customer defined as price increases less rollbacks was 2.8% in the third quarter.
Landfill price increased by 2.7% in the quarter.
Volumes decreased by 1.6%.
The majority of volume decline can be attributed to contract losses we discussed on previous earnings calls and lower special waste streams.
Although we saw an overall decline in volume our collection business grew 0.3% versus the prior year.
This is the first time collection volumes have been positive since 2008.
Our third quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.47.
This includes a remediation charge for a closed landfill of $37 million or $0.06 of EPS.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $480 million.
Q3 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28% and SG&amp;A was 9.5%.
Excluding the remediation charge and impact from net fuel and commodity EBITDA margin was 30.8%.
We repurchased 1.3 million shares in the third quarter for $36 million.
Year-to-date we have purchased 7.6 million shares for $208 million.
We plan to complete our goal of $325 million of buybacks in 2012.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
We expect to return approximately $650 million to our shareholders in 2012.
This translates to a cash yield of approximately 6.5%.
We have already met our full year acquisition goal of investing approximately $100 million and have purchased tuck-in acquisitions with $62 million of revenue in our existing markets.
We continue to work on additional transactions and expect to maintain this pace of acquisitions in 2013.
Our safety performance continues to improve with a 5% favorable reduction in our frequency rate.
We have seen continued growth in our recycling business.
Q3 recycling tons have increased 1.3% over the prior year.
The economy is still sluggish but we have seen an increase in our temporary roll-off business which confirms the improvement in the homebuilding statistics.
It is too early to call this a broad-based recovery but our temporary roll-off volumes have increased by 3.8% as compared to Q3 2011.
As noted in our press release we are reorganizing the structure of our headquarters and field operations which will permanently reduce our annual SG&amp;A cost structure by approximately $23 million.
We expect to recognize a onetime charge of approximately $30 million for various costs approximately half of which will be recorded in the fourth quarter.
This reorganization allows us to maintain a streamlined structure that is responsive to market demands.
We are in the process of withdrawing from the Central States Pension Fund.
This quarter we took a charge of approximately $31 million for a partial withdrawal.
We anticipate there will be future charges as we negotiate withdrawals for additional bargaining units.
The liability is payable over 20 years and does not materially affect our free cash flow performance.
This decision will benefit our employees and shareholders by limiting exposure to this critically underfunded plan and by moving employees to a well-designed 401(k) plan.
We have amended our bank credit facilities to account for these potential future charges.
Tod and Ed will now update our financial performance.
Thanks Don.
I'd like to begin by discussing Q3 earnings and our full year EPS guidance.
As a Don mentioned our Q3 adjusted EPS was $0.47.
Included in the earnings was a $0.06 environmental remediation charge for a closed landfill in Missouri.
This was partially offset by a $0.04 benefit due to realizing tax credits on our 2011 returns.
Absent these 2 significant items adjusted EPS would have been $0.49.
Now in July we provided full year adjusted EPS guidance of $1.91 to $1.93.
Since then we have seen 4 components of projected earnings change resulting in a $0.06 reduction in full year EPS.
2 of these components I just mentioned: a decrease of $0.06 due to the Q3 remediation charge and an increase of $0.04 due to the Q3 favorable tax rate.
In addition there has been a decrease of $0.01 due to a decline in commodity prices and also a decrease of $0.03 due to the increase in net fuel costs.
The net impact of these 4 components is a reduction in projected earnings of $0.06.
As a result we now expect full year adjusted EPS in a range of $1.85 to $1.87.
This excludes the restructuring expenses we expect to incur in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now turning to revenue.
Third quarter 2012 revenue of about $2 billion reflects the following components of internal growth.
Core price growth of 1% with positive price in all lines of business.
Core price increased 40 basis points sequentially from 0.6% in Q2 to 1% in Q3.
This was in line with our expectations.
The sequential increase reflects the impact from higher CPI-based price resets in our restricted customer base.
Our fuel recovery fee decreased 0.4%.
The decrease relates to the lag between fuel recovery fees and the fuel costs when prices are changing.
Our fuel recovery fee lags the current fuel costs by 1 to 2 months.
When fuel costs are rising like they did throughout the third quarter of 2012 our recovery percentage declines until fuel costs stabilize.
Conversely fuel cost declined throughout the third quarter of 2011 which resulted in a timing benefit in the prior year.
Our commodity revenues decreased by 2%.
Commodity prices decreased approximately 33% per ton to an average price of $108 per ton in the third quarter from $162 per ton in the prior year's third quarter.
Our Q3 recycling facility commodity volume of 500 000 tons was up about 1.3% from the prior year.
The full year guidance which we provided in July was based on our July average price of $116 per ton.
We estimate current commodity prices of about $110 per ton.
And again for reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity value equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS impact.
This includes the impact on both our recycling facility and our collection businesses.
Now turning to volume.
Our third quarter volumes decreased by 1.6% year-over-year excluding a 50 basis point decline due to 1 less work day.
Most of the decline relates to landfill and transfer station volumes.
Within the landfill business special waste decreased approximately 10% versus the prior year.
In Q3 of 2011 we had historically high levels of special waste which creates a tough comparison for this year.
We are also experiencing a slowdown in special waste jobs.
In many cases we've been awarded the work but the start dates have been delayed.
Our landfill MSW volumes are down approximately 4% primarily due to the previously discussed loss in municipal disposal contracts and also competitive pressures that we previously discussed in our outlaying markets.
As Don indicated collection volume is positive 3% this despite specific losses that we previously discussed.
This level of collection volume represents a 60 basis point sequential increase from our second quarter performance.
Now turning to margin I will discuss our third quarter year-over-year margin.
Q3 2012 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28% compared to 30.7% in the prior year.
This is a 270 basis point decrease.
As Don mentioned excluding the impact of the Q3 remediation charge of 180 basis points and the impact of net fuel and commodity of 100 basis points EBITDA margin would have been 30.8%.
Some of the more significant changes in margin include: first labor the 90 basis point increase in expense is mostly due to normal increases in wages and health care costs and a change in our revenue mix.
Collection volumes have increased which carry associated labor cost while disposal volumes commodity revenues fuel recovery fees and subcontract revenues are all down and these have little or no variable labor cost.
Second our maintenance costs.
The 70 basis point increase in maintenance expense relates to the change in revenue mix I just discussed.
Also implementation costs associated with our ongoing maintenance initiative an increase in cost of tires across our supplier base and refurbishment of containers versus purchasing new which is a prudent cash decision.
Third our transportation and subcontract cost.
The 30 basis point improvement relates to a reduction in subcontract costs associated with a loss of a large national account which we discussed in July.
Subcontract costs tend to be higher in our National Accounts business.
Fourth our fuel costs.
The 20 basis point increase in expense is due to a 1.8% increase in the cost of diesel.
After considering the impact of related fuel recovery fees there was a net margin decline of 30 basis points.
The average cost of diesel in October was approximately $4.09 per gallon an increase of $0.31 from the $3.78 per gallon used in our full year guidance provided in July.
For reference purposes a $0.10 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which also includes the impact of our fuel recovery fees.
Fifth our landfill operating costs.
As previously mentioned the 180 basis point increase in expense relates to a 37% remediation charge for environmental conditions at a closed landfill in Missouri.
This charge will not have a significant cash impact in the next few years.
As I mentioned earlier this charge resulted in a $0.06 reduction in EPS in the third quarter.
And excluding this charge landfill operating costs were essentially flat from the prior year.
Up next is our cost of goods sold.
The 70 basis point improvement relates to a reduction in rebates paid for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold decreased to an average of $31 per ton from $55 per ton in the prior year.
While the change in cost was favorable when you consider the more significant decrease in related commodity revenues there is a net 70 basis point decline in EBITDA margin.
And finally SG&amp;A.
Third quarter 2012 SG&amp;A was 9.5% of revenue.
This improvement of 30 basis points primarily relates to a reduction in incentive compensation expense partially offset by an increase in provision for doubtful accounts.
Looking ahead we consistently believe our annual run rate SG&amp;A is approximately 10% of revenue.
Our DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 10.9% in the third quarter of 2012 versus 11.1% in the prior year.
The 20 basis point improvement primarily relates to the favorable impact of landfill expansions in the third quarter of 2012.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense taxes and free cash flow.
Thanks Tod.
Third quarter 2012 interest expense was $93 million which included $14 million of noncash amortization.
Our Q3 2012 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by realizing additional federal and state credits on our 2011 tax returns.
As Tod mentioned this provided a $0.04 EPS benefit in the third quarter versus our original expectations.
In July we guided to a 36% full year 2012 effective tax rate.
We now expect a full year 2012 tax rate of approximately 33.5%.
Looking forward to 2013 we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 38%.
The higher tax rate has a negative impact on our preliminary 2013 EPS outlook of approximately $0.14.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Adjusted free cash flow was $149 million in the third quarter and $480 million on a year-to-date basis.
Free cash flow timing tends to vary by quarter due to capital expenditures and changes in working capital.
The components of adjusted free cash flow are detailed in our 8-K filing.
As a result of higher fuel costs and lower commodity prices we now expect full year cash flow to be approximately $750 million.
This is down $25 million from our previous guidance of $775 million.
Now I'll discuss the balance sheet.
At September 30 our accounts receivable balance was $854 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 24 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7.1 billion at September 30 and excess credit available under our bank facility was approximately $1.4 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
As Tod mentioned we expect 2012 full year adjusted EPS in a range of $1.85 to $1.87 due to lower commodity pricing higher fuel expense and the Q3 remediation charge.
And as Ed discussed we are reducing our adjusted free cash flow guidance to $750 million accordingly.
We are about midway through our annual planning process for 2013 and have not yet finalized the details which we will provide next February.
At this point our preliminary outlook for 2013 EPS is approximately $1.90 to $1.92 which represents high single-digit growth after excluding the impact of a higher effective tax rate.
Our preliminary outlook for 2013 free cash flow is approximately $650 million which represents mid-single-digit growth after excluding the impact of higher cash taxes.
Now I want everyone to pay close attention to my following comments.
This preliminary EPS outlook for 2013 assumes that fuel and commodities remain at current levels.
It assumes no change in the economic environment and a higher effective tax rate compared to 2012.
As Ed mentioned the negative impact that the higher tax rate has on our preliminary 2013 outlook is approximately $0.14.
Our free cash flow expectations also assume that bonus depreciation will expire at the end of 2012.
If it expires the negative year-over-year impact of bonus depreciation is approximately $150 million.
It is important that you understand these facts and assumptions.
Now before we go to questions I'd like to highlight a number of key achievements the Republic Services team has made.
We delivered free cash flow performance providing a cash yield to positive price throughout the economic downturn.
We've grown the business through collection volume growth and tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets.
We continue to demonstrate an efficient cost structure and we remain core-focused and well-disciplined.
We're well positioned to take advantage of an improved economy.
At this time operator I'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to start real quickly on the restructuring charge.
I know it's not a big number.
But perhaps maybe some of the things that went into rethinking the organizational structure and the fallout of course is the dollar amount.
But maybe from just an operation standpoint why this makes sense and maybe why now? Well I think it makes sense now because we've continued to develop strength in our team we've continued to build our team our people continue to grow and we have a high confidence in our region and area leaders that they can operate and lead larger geographies.
What's important to note is our general manager business unit level has not been impacted.
So we have not spread or expanded the span of control at the business level.
Those 170 or so general managers still exist.
Those position units haven't been impacted.
So our area leaders and our regional leaders have to manage a little larger geography and we believe they have the talent and the team to do that.
Our Republic standards our initiatives are taking shape and having good progress.
And at Republic Services we're always looking for ways to work hard and work smarter and this is just one of those examples.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up if I may and it's sort of a broader question.
But obviously the free cash flow number again with all of the caveats is still a little bit down from '12.
But is that pricing related in certain markets? Are you still seeing some pressure on that? Al you're talking about '12 to '13 right? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just trying to pick up the trend in the business here that if you...
Well actually I think if you look at the normalized trend free cash flow year-over-year would be up mid-single-digits.
The headwind that we have in '13 is the exploration of bonus depreciation at the end of calendar '12.
And the impact on a year-over-year basis is about $150 million.
So all companies that buy heavy equipment have benefited significantly in their free cash flow performance over the past several years from bonus depreciation.
Keep in mind as recently as 2011 bonus depreciation was 100%.
In calendar '12 it's been 50% and in '13 it will go to 0%.
So we're assuming in our guidance -- or excuse me our outlook that's there is no extension of bonus depreciation.
And if that is the case the year-over-year headwind is $150 million.
Now if you normalized free cash flow in '11 -- excuse me in '12 and '13 for bonus depreciation as I mentioned you would see a positive free cash flow in the mid-single-digit range.
So we are -- from the ongoing business we are seeing free cash flow growth.
What we're seeing is the impact of the change in federal tax policy.
Research Division</strong> Okay am I able to sneak one more in here? Or is this...
Go ahead one more.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Sorry.
So back to the pricing component.
I guess then the volume trend that you're seeing you were a little bit lighter than we had expected.
And I'm just wondering if there's something contractually or if it's just some of this commercial and industrial that you haven't seen the uptick yet.
Yes Al this is Don.
Special waste is really just a little bit lighter than we thought.
Our commercial business and our collection business as we said is growing for the first time since 2008 so we're really happy with what's happening there.
We did have the continued effect of some of the previously lost contracts.
It really comes down to the special waste.
It's a little bit lighter softer and jobs are being pushed.
We still have people saying they're going to let the jobs but they just seem to be delaying when they're going to start.
Our next question comes from Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the special waste question.
So the slowdown that's being experienced is that resulting in a stronger pipeline now because these are really just pullouts or pushouts? Or is this more of a cancellation nature? Can you distinguish there? Yes.
I think it's just pushing it out.
We've seen a slowdown.
I think people just are a little uneasy with economic conditions the fiscal cliff.
At this time of the year it's not unusual if the economy is not doing real well that people start to tighten up their capital budgets government jobs being delayed those kind of things.
So it's just a -- it's the event business we're talking about not the re-occurring special waste stream to manufacturing.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And on the CPI it sounds like it's providing a modest lift now based on the contract structure and the lag impact.
Do you think it's going to provide more of a tailwind in the fourth quarter and beyond? Well as we look at the pricing at the -- exiting the year we looked at pricing will be at least 1% as we exit the fourth quarter.
So I think we're in a good position versus how we were coming into 2011 as far as the trend in pricing.
And it's in line with what we had thought in line with our expectation.
Okay.
And one last one maybe you mentioned the $650 million of capital that will be returned to shareholders this year.
Any feel for where that number might be next year in 2013? Well obviously we just increased the dividend in that number set.
We expect to have $325 million of share repurchase available as we go into calendar '13.
And as you know Vance we try to be opportunistic but kind of hold to our plan but we just kind of work our way through the year.
But we would probably have about $325 million available under the current authorization when we enter the new year.
And remember Vance we're working off of a 2-year authorization here.
So we have a good portion of that left for 2013.
But the cash utilization strategy is we very consistent.
So it's the foundational dividend.
It's that share repurchase 2-year program Don mentioned and the it's the $100 million or so of tuck-ins.
Yes there's really nothing we see that would change our approach to that.
We've got the tuck-in opportunities.
We've got the dividend and we still will continue as Tod said to be opportunistic in the buyback.
Our next question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question was just around guidance.
I know you guys said you're assuming the current economic environment you're assuming current OCC and fuel.
Under that scenario what is your pricing assumption for '13 assuming you get the same CPI bump that you did this year? And what are you assuming on volume? I know you've had some contract transitions.
What does pricing volume look like in that '13 guidance? And does that include a buyback as well? And if so how much? Yes Hamzah as I said this is not guidance it's preliminary outlook.
We're just in the middle of the business planning process.
We wanted to bring to light some of these tax issues so you guys had a handle on that.
We'll see what happens with fuel and commodities between now and when we give guidance in February.
As you know when we give guidance in February it's based on how we end the full year the previous year.
It's yet to be determined.
And we talked about the fact that pricing now was up from 60 basis points to 1% in Q3.
We'll see how that trend develops but we're not really giving guidance today.
It's just a preliminary outlook and we're just going to give that EPS and cash flow just to kind of to get everybody focused on that.
And on the share repurchase we've said repeatedly that $325 million it was a 2-year program or a little over 2-year program with $325 million this year and $325 million next year so that's consistent with what we said in July.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then just a follow-up question.
On your collection volume being up how much of that is just a general lift in the economy? And how much of that is you guys being more aggressive in the marketplace and maybe defending some business? Well I'd say it's a couple things.
It's puts and takes certainly.
We've won the San Jose contract that's in there.
We've got some puts and takes of large contracts.
We've been very open with everyone about the fact that a couple years ago we really started defending our business more ferociously against some of the sort of less rational smaller players.
That's paid off because we begun to close a little bit the gaps.
I would tell you we're losing less business today as a result of that.
And Rule 1 when you're trying to grow you've got to stop shrinking.
So we've stopped the shrinking.
We're defending our turf very well and we're very specifically competing back in markets where we need to.
We are continually pricing and our price shows that.
And that's really all I can tell you.
There's a lot of blocking and tackling and a little trench warfare that's going on in this business and it's really no different than it's always been.
It's been very competitive but we're getting a little better at it in the trenches than we have been historically.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
Just last one any update on the CFO search process? Yes sure.
We've got a great process well defined.
We're right on course and on schedule.
We have a number of internal high-quality candidates as you know.
And we've got a couple of external candidates we're looking at.
And we'll be bringing it to a close here before too long.
But as you know Tod is going to be here through May if we require him to and he's committed to that.
So we're right on course and there's really no need to worry or hurry.
But we'll have an outcome before too long.
Our next question comes from Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe for Tod.
I know that the maintenance expense is up like $40 million or so year-to-date.
How do we think about that expense into '13 in terms of the One Fleet initiative and kind of some of the puts and takes there? Well again we're not going to really talk about '13 anymore than the general comments that we've made in the past.
I think when you look at kind of sequentially how that maintenance expense rolls out our container expense continues to be a little bit higher as we continue to repair containers.
But that is the right cash decision.
I would say that we're kind of working through the -- probably the tail end of that inventory.
So as a result that would drop off a little bit and we'd revert a little bit more to buying containers.
And then on the One Fleet initiative as we've said in the past that's a multiyear program.
We talked last quarter about slowing it down but really that slowdown takes a little bit of time to work through.
So it will probably step down a little bit here in the fourth quarter and then be at that level as we go forward.
The other thing that we have which is probably more of a margin noise thing is that change of revenue.
Again when you look at the total mix of business and this is more from a percentage standpoint the higher disposal commodity type of business gives you a lower percentage whereas a little bit more collection business pushes your maintenance costs up a little bit.
So obviously on a dollar basis as we grow the business as Don said this is the first quarter since I think '08 that we see a positive there that in the collection business that there's going to be a little more dollars spent on the fleet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe for Don you mentioned the temporary roll-off was up 3-or-so percent.
And if I were to think the sector hadn't really invested in roll-off fleet the last 4 or 5 years and I know it's a smaller piece of revenue now.
But if that stays strong on the volume side could that kind of benefit price in that piece a little bit more given the capacity maybe? That was the total collection -- Bill this is Tod I must have misspoke because I think I said 3% for the collection volume being up and the total company was actually 0.3%.
Temporary roll-off was up 3% right? Temp roll-off...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just talking about the temporary...
Temp roll-off is going to be construction.
It's going to be businesses cleaning out that type of thing.
We haven't seen that kind of an uptick in a long time so it's a little too early to tell.
I guess that's what I said in my comments.
We wanted to make a note of it because it's a positive about 3%.
So it's -- temp roll-off is only 30% of our total industrial line of business right? So it's a small portion of a small portion right? But it is a positive.
We'll have a more on it as we see how things kind of develop through Q4.
And obviously supply and demand right Bill if at some point that things start to take off a little bit it should give us a little more pricing power.
That's just how it works in our business.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to ask Tod when you went through the impacts to your new EPS guidance for '12 relative to the prior guidance I was a little surprised that you were saying there's more of an impact from fuel than from commodities just given kind of the relative movements.
I just want to kind of confirm had you assumed in the prior guidance that commodities were going to come down further? And on fuel are you actually recovering less kind of structurally.
Or is it just a lag issue? I think you got it.
That's exactly it Corey.
It's the lag.
And then I would say the other thing is commodities have kind of come back a little bit here in the past month or so.
So it's those 2 factors.
It's about a 60 day to get the FERF to catch up.
And I think what we saw here in the third quarter is that fuel was just continuing to move against us week-after-week throughout the quarter.
So it was just you were kind of running after a higher and higher number and just the way the math works.
It was difficult to have the FERF kind of keep pace with where actual fuel is going.
Research Division</strong> And on the impact of labor on margin so I understand the mix issue where do you think you're at in terms of kind of the efficiency of operations? The 0.3% increase in collection obviously that's moving the right direction but that's not a level where you think you need to be adding a bunch of labor so are there opportunities still to kind of make that side of the business more efficient? Yes.
We continue to work on our automation initiative Corey that's -- it's a long-term initiative converting our resi system from 2-person vehicles to single operators.
We're going to be at this end of this year 63% complete.
We might get in sort of the 80% range before we're done so we've got some work to do there.
We continue to work on routing efficiencies and we'll get an additional productivity enhancement every year from those things.
But we're pretty good at routing so there's not a big material change.
It's just constant steady improvement.
Research Division</strong> If I could just throw in one quick one Ed I was hoping you might be able to give us a tax rate guidance just for Q4 given the moving pieces I want to make sure I'm modeling that correctly.
Well I use the full year 33.5%; isn't that what it is? So what -- look at the 9 months and just...
Right.
It's going to average 33.5%.
For the full year.
So just force the fourth quarter to get you a 33.5% of the full year.
It will be roughly equal to our statutory rate.
And again the third quarter was the return provision true up where you typically actually file your tax return.
Our next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> If you were to go back to the beginning of when bonus depreciation was dumped upon us I don't know 2009.
And you wiped it out and never happened what's the free cash flow -- base free cash flow of the business? Well I think it's probably -- if we look at this year it would be around $700 million.
If we look at next year it would be around $750 million somewhere in that range.
That's kind of that mid-single-digit free cash flow growth that Ed and Don spoke to.
And again if you look at the history of bonus depreciation '08 and '09 it was 50%.
In '10 it was 50% until September and then it went to 100% in kind of in the closing months of the year and then in '11 it was 100%.
So we're getting a benefit this year which is a combination of some of the late 2011 capital that we put in place where we probably overpaid a little bit our 2011 taxes.
And actually once we knew it was going down to 50% we accelerated capital in '11 as you'll recall to take advantage of that.
And in this year its 50%.
So we think that we have probably I'd say realistic but depending on what happens with all this political uncertainty we don't have any bonus depreciation in for next year.
If there is some well that's upside to what we just told you.
And keep in mind Michael what we're seeing in the free cash flow outlook we're talking about is the impact of lower-than-average commodity prices that we're currently experiencing above average fuel costs.
But I think if you pull back and you kind of just look at the normal depreciation schedules because historically we would depreciate equipment over a 5-year period and if you looked at a normalized level of fuel and commodity values I think what generally you see in the long term in this business is that free cash flow tends to run about 110% of net income.
So there is -- as long as you're continuing to reinvest in the fleet you get that benefit of the 5-year depreciation schedule.
So this is a business that normally you do see free cash flow per share higher than book earnings per share and that's one of the beauties of the business.
But right now we're just dealing with the volatility on a year-to-year basis created by bonus depreciation.
And then from an operating perspective a pretty significant decline in commodities during the third quarter.
Or as Tod mentioned it has picked up a little bit here at the beginning of the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then your dividend's now around 3.5% if I'm not mistaken your borrowing costs on 10-year or longer money is well below that.
So why not fire a bucket of a money and buy a whole lot of stock back and play the spread? Well we do like being investment grade and I'm sure there's a few fixed income investors on the call that appreciate us saying that.
So we do...
And there's also a cost associated with not being investment grade.
And there is a significant cost with our -- keep in mind we rely on letters of credit.
We rely on surety bonds.
We do like having or prefer to have -- and the investment grade profile we think is also a benefit for us as we look at municipal marketing opportunities and having access to capital to expand our business platform through enhancing the fleet recycling or tuck-in acquisitions.
So we don't want to get distracted by some near-term events and be focused on the business for the long term.
We want to maintain that financial flexibility Michael in the event that there is a business opportunity we can take advantage of so that's critical for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Don just one quick question for you.
In your text and in your presentation if I summarize you believe the underlying fundamentals of this business are sound stable and with an improving bias.
But macro factors in the bonus depreciation create oddities but structurally believe the business is in a good fundamental position and improving.
Yes we think the underlying fundamentals of the business are very strong.
We think we are well positioned to take advantage of improving conditions.
We're very happy with the team.
They're very capable of executing the plan.
That's evidenced by the fact that we just reduced our area in the region -- our count and increased our coverage.
We're that confident in their capability.
Yes we're at a unique point here where as Ed said commodities are below average.
Fuel is way above average and we have some of these interesting puts and takes here year-over-year.
The -- we're still as you can see producing consistent cash flow.
The business has that hallmark and we think overall the industry is still fairly rational even though there's some noise out there.
With a good cash yield back to the owners through the dividend.
Yes so you asked me do I feel better about the business now than I felt last year? I would say yes I do.
And we just have some noise here to sort out.
Our next question comes from Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A question I don't know if you mentioned this earlier could you quantify the dollar amount of the bonus accrual that was reversed that was the component of SG&amp;A? We did not quantify it.
I think you can see it in our SEC filings in the SG&amp;A detail.
Typically this third quarter ends up being a little bit lower than our average of around 10-plus percent or 9.5%.
So we had a positive net of 30 basis points but then offsetting that we had some higher bad debt expense year-over-year.
I will say this is not an unusual phenomenon as you go through the second half of the year to true up bonus accruals.
This year it probably is a little bit more than in the past because we've got the headwind from the commodities and fuel which is bringing our EPS number down.
Yes.
So we're going to see around 10% in SG&amp;A going forward.
So this 9.5% for the quarter isn't something that we're going to carry into the future.
It's going to still remain around 10%.
10% next year.
And the puts and takes is cost savings on the reorganization next year and obviously our bonus accrual next year will be higher than this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I'm not sure if this is covered in terms of the remediation charge.
So is that basically a one-shot deal with a cash flow impact of a direct magnitude a few years out? Or is it still a fluid situation where it's still unresolved? It's a onetime -- the $30 million is onetime.
The $23 million is ongoing.
The cash impact is...
About $2 million this year.
Research Division</strong> $2 million.
Got it.
Okay.
And then one follow-up on acquisition.
So it sounds like you guys you hit your acquisition target here in 3 quarters.
Just wondering whether -- what your appetite and interest level still is and whether you're considering outside of traditional tuck-ins I know that's traditionally been the focus and whether you may overspend your budget if appealing opportunities become available to you and whether you'd be willing to lever up a little bit more to do that.
Well I'd say this.
We're always looking and we've looked at everything small medium.
We're looking within our core.
So solid waste North America in the markets we're in typically which is the definition of tuck-ins.
We take a look at everything.
We're very pleased with the ones we've done.
If there's something else that came up in the remainder of the year we'd look at it.
But at this point the idea of closing anything that's not on our radar today with this much -- with only 6 days left in the year is probably not going to happen.
Where does it go from here? We think there's a pipeline that lets us do a steady diet of call it $100 million a year into the future but we'll have as we said before the financial flexibility to do a little more if we run into good opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And what's your leverage as of the end of the quarter? You mean our debt-to-EBITDA? Research Division</strong> That's right.
About -- just right around 3x.
That's calculated under our bank covenant.
Our next question is from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I do want to ask the growth that you saw in the quarter temporary roll-off I think you said up 3.8%.
How does that compare to recent quarters? Stronger a little bit stronger.
Research Division</strong> So it's accelerating a little bit.
Yes.
I wouldn't get too excited.
I think it's...
It's coming off a low base.
We have seen a little bit better temporary roll-off in the -- down in the south in some areas in the west but it's kind of mixed geographically but maybe some of the areas where there was very little activity are actually showing some new activity.
Our next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First can you just talk about how you see the company's leverage through the nascent housing and repair and remodel recoveries as those markets begin to approach normalized levels over the next couple years? What kind of impact do you see that having on the companies volumes? Well Alex if you just look at our total revenue C&amp;D collections is about 6% of our revenue and then C&amp;D volumes at our landfills are about 2% of our revenue.
So to all types of construction and demolition work it's about 8% of our revenue.
It's up slightly where versus a couple years ago we were at 7%.
So we're still at fairly low levels.
Let me say that again total C&amp;D revenue 3 years ago or 4 years ago when we're at the peak '06...
Was about 17% of our revenue.
And today? It's about 8%.
Yes.
So if '06 was normal and you would argue it's probably greater than normal and we're not saying we're going to get back to '06 anytime soon but that's the gap.
So today we're up 9% of our volume.
So still down 50% from the peak.
Now what's a normal level? We're not going to go out there and try to give that type of guidance.
We would just kind of report as to what's happening in the business.
And as those opportunities come to us we are seeing a little bit higher activity.
And the good part is we're well positioned geographically in the Sunbelt in those markets that would maybe grow faster with population.
We're -- we've got the assets the landfills.
We certainly have roll-off containers stacked up and we're -- we sort of naturally get that growth as it occurs.
It's not as though you got to go out and fight that hard for it; you sort of get your fair share and that fair share would get us back ultimately to the numbers that I've talked about.
And as we've said before we're late cycle so as we're clearing land you're going to see all that activity.
And then it's quite some time before they get into the anterior of the building where a lot of the waste is generated in the finishing process.
Yes so it's still a little too early to call.
Let's just leave it there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
My second question is based on what you guys have seen out there and the trenches in the recycling business do you have a view of the outlook for OCC price over the next couple of quarters? No flat -- kind of flat's where they are.
And we really don't put any type of forecast of OCC or other products into our outlook or guidance.
So they're -- historically there's a little bit of seasonality tied to holiday season buying.
But other than that we don't really see changes in the pricing.
We just kind of assume what the current market is is what we'll see going forward.
Our next question comes from Tony Bancroft with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Quick question.
Just to go a little further on Michael's question as far as nontraditional acquisitions as regarding the R360 deal what are your thoughts on sort of the drilling waste business and actually sort of dealing in the front end not just sort of the back end of that business? Well as I said we're really looking in and around the core.
That's not as core to us as maybe it might be to somebody else and we're -- we think there's enough opportunity in the tuck-in arena in the markets we're in.
And we think for us if we're going to spend $100 million a year in acquisitions which is what we've said is a decent run rate we can buy businesses in markets we're already in and businesses we're already in and with that we'll get the best return the lowest risk of integration.
It's hard work buying revenue in $5 million and $10 million chunks but it's given us the best return so far.
And that's where we're going to be focused for the foreseeable future.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And we will participate in that energy sector to the extent that we have infrastructure in those drilling areas like Louisiana or Eastern Ohio.
So we do see a piece of that business in our which we consider part of our core.
But purely on the landfilling side.
We're not on the front end as you said.
We're not in the dewatering and in some of the other services at this point.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
That makes sense.
And then just one quick question could you give us some little more color maybe regionally with what you've seen recently with landfill pricings or defending landfill pricing? I don't think there's much to tell there regionally.
Our landfill our total disposal price was up 2.7% in the quarter so we're consistently raising prices in our collection business fairly effectively.
We haven't seen any major losses of contracts in and around that space and we think there's going to be a couple of areas to recover -- I know there's been some talk about what happens in the L.A.
market when the landfill closes there next year they'll see some things occur.
But we think it's overall a fairly rational market for landfill disposal.
And our next question comes from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you on your Industrial Collection business.
If my model is right it looks like this is actually the first decline since 4Q '10.
I'm just curious in talking to some of your customers does this feel like more of a pause in activity? Or could it be more sustained? No really that's just a combination of -- we talked in previous calls about one of our large competitors purchasing Oakleaf and that business being migrated over to their collection routes and then also the large the big box retail store that was lost in our National Accounts system earlier in the year and that's really it.
You kind of net those things out things are positive and going okay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And changing gears a bit.
I think one of your peers was out recently talking about a decline in rollbacks in the quarter.
Is that something that's been broad based throughout the industry in 3Q? Or could be more of a one-off? Yes I don't know.
I think rollbacks are pretty consistent.
The general state of municipal finance in this country with our public-private partnerships as we said we're probably kind of halfway through renewing that book of business.
About $400 million or so of revenue comes up every year in that space and our municipal customers are struggling in other ways.
And so we've had some rollbacks there.
We'll probably have a little more over the foreseeable future.
I don't think it's going to change much.
What has to happen is generally we've got to see -- to see meaningful movement in pricing we're going to have to see CPI increase; again that's half of our book of our business.
We're going to have to see household formation business formation manufacturing pick up we're going to have to see generally consumer sentiment improve and people feel a little better about the state of the economy and exactly the tax space.
So when those things occur pricing will get better.
In the mean time we're pretty happy that pricing's moved up a little tick here.
We're doing good on costs.
The fundamentals are sound so we're just working hard through it.
And if things feel a little better today than they did maybe 6 months ago but we'll see.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
We would like to express our concerns for all the areas impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
Our thoughts and prayers are with you.
We are happy to report that we have made contact with all Republic employees and all are safe.
Our facilities and assets did not incur any material damage and we are fully operational in substantially all of our locations.
We are committed to providing the high level of service required to address the needs of our customers.
I'd like to thank the entire Republic team for their efforts in working through our reorganization and their commitment and dedication to operational excellence in creating a Republic way.
As a reminder a recording of this call will be available through November 8 2012 by calling (203) 369-1886 and using the passcode 4589.
Additionally I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
Thank you for spending with time with us today and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Republic Services conference for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Glenn Culpepper CFO; Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Holly.
Welcome and good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I'd like to welcome everyone to Republic Services Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Glenn Culpepper our CFO are joining me as we discuss fourth quarter 2012 performance and 2013 guidance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is February 7 2013.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services 2012 results and 2013 guidance.
As I look back over 2012 performance I'm proud of the Republic team and how in spite of a less than favorable economy we executed on our long-term strategy and maintained our track record of generating strong cash flows from the business.
Consistent with our balanced approach to cash utilization we reinvested in the business and returned a significant portion of free cash flow to our owners which included dividends of $329 million.
We raised the dividend approximately 7% demonstrating our practice of steadily increasing dividends.
Our dividend payout as a percentage of free cash flow was approximately 43%.
We repurchased 11.8 million shares for $325 million in 2012 which was consistent with our plan.
We have $324 million remaining on our share repurchase authorization which we expect to complete in 2013.
Over the past 9 quarters we have repurchased approximately 8% of the company's outstanding shares.
In 2012 we returned approximately $655 million to our stockholders.
This translates to a cash yield of approximately 6.3% which is the highest in the industry.
Additionally we completed approximately $100 million of acquisitions our highest level of investment in 4 years.
These acquisitions have run rate revenue of $65 million and EBITDA of $23 million.
We continue to work on additional transactions and expect to maintain this pace of acquisitions in 2013.
Our financial flexibility enables us to complete these accretive transactions and gives us the capacity we need to pursue future deals.
I will now discuss some of the other financial and operational highlights from 2012.
We recorded revenue of approximately $2 billion in Q4 2012.
Core price growth in the quarter was 1.1% which was in line with our expectations.
Net price increase to customer defined as price increases less rollbacks was 3.2% in the fourth quarter.
Volumes decreased by 0.8% which is made up of growth in collection business offset by a decline in the post collection business.
Our collection business grew 0.9% versus the prior year which includes 5.8% increase in temporary roll off hauls.
Within the post collection business the majority of the volume decline can be attributed to contract losses that we have previously discussed and lower special waste streams.
Our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.37 this includes a remediation charge for a closed landfill of $37 million or $0.06 in EPS.
Excluding this charge our EPS would have been $0.43.
Full year 2012 adjusted free cash flow was $768 million which was in line with our expectations.
Full year 2012 adjusted free cash flow per share was $2.09 or approximately 16% higher than our adjusted full year EPS of $1.80.
This demonstrates the strong cash flow characteristics of our business.
We saw continued growth in our recycling business.
Q4 recycling facility tons increased approximately 3.5% over the prior year.
Our safety performance continues to improve with a 3% favorable reduction in our frequency rate.
I will now discuss our 2013 financial guidance.
Consistent with prior practice our guidance is based on a current economic condition and assumes fuel and recycled commodity prices remain at current levels for the full year.
We expect 2013 adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.86 to $1.91.
Our guidance assumes an effective tax rate of approximately 38%.
We anticipate 2013 adjusted free cash flow in a range of $675 million to $700 million.
We expect annual revenue growth of 2% to 2.5% with core price improving 1% to 1.5% acquisition growth of approximately 1% and relatively flat volumes.
We expect volumes to remain slightly negative in the first half of the year until we anniversary the contracts lost in 2012 and expect to achieve positive volume growth in the second half of the year.
Our EBITDA margin guidance is approximately 29%.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to be $860 million and $835 million net of expected proceeds from sales of property and equipment.
Our guidance for EPS and free cash flow represents high-single-digit growth after excluding the impact of a higher effective tax rate and higher cash taxes.
This level of growth demonstrates the strength of our business which is well-positioned to take advantage of an improving economy.
Before I turn the call over to Glenn to discuss our 2012 financial performance I would like to take a moment to thank Tod Holmes for his steady leadership his financial stewardship and guidance.
As you know Tod retired last month after serving as our CFO for 15 years.
We honored him and his wife Anne earlier this week at a retirement dinner with our Board of Directors.
We'll certainly miss Tod but we are thrilled for him and Anne and we wish them the best in their retirement.
With that I'm pleased to introduce Glenn Culpepper our Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
Glenn has a deep financial background and experience at large decentralized growth-oriented industrial companies.
Glenn has more than 30 years of broad-based financial experience including 17 years in the CFO role.
Glenn joins us from Summit Materials a leading business in the aggregates and building materials sector.
Before that he spent 20 years -- 21 years at CRH plc a large publicly traded multinational construction materials company based in Dublin Ireland.
Glenn and Ed will now discuss our 2012 financial performance and provide more details on the 2013 guidance.
Thank you Don.
I'm pleased to be part of Republic Services.
We have an outstanding business with great assets.
Our management is focused on building on its core strengths and is committed to delivering returns to our customers.
I look forward to working with the team to continue to execute on these principles in the future.
Now I will discuss financial results for the quarter.
Fourth quarter 2012 revenue was approximately $2 billion and reflects the following 3 components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First on pricing.
We had core price growth of 1.1% with positive price in all lines of business.
Core price increased 10 basis points sequentially from 1% in Q3 to 1.1% in Q4.
Consistent with our expectations pricing was higher in the second half of the year which reflects the higher level of price resets to our index-based customers.
In addition fuel recovery fees increased 0.2%.
The average price per gallon of diesel fuel increased to $4.02 in Q4 from $3.87 in the prior year an increase of 4%.
Second on volumes.
They decreased 0.8% year-over-year.
As Don indicated collection volumes were positive 0.9%.
This level of collection volume represented a 60 basis point sequential increase from our Q3 performance.
Most of the improvement is coming from the commercial and industrial lines of business.
The growth in collection is offset by a decline in landfill and transfer station volumes.
Within the landfill business special waste decreased approximately 9% listed from prior year and landfill MSW volumes were down approximately 5%.
The decline in landfill MSW volumes relates primarily to the previously discussed loss municipal disposal contracts and competitive pressures in our Los Angeles market.
Our Q4 2012 volume performance also reflects a 30 basis point increase in revenue from an additional work day.
Third a decrease in commodity sales resulted in a 0.8% decrease in revenue.
Commodity prices decreased approximately 13% to an average of $109 per ton in Q4 from $125 per ton in the prior year.
Q4 recycling facility commodity volume of 527 000 tons was up 3.5% from the prior year.
Our 2013 guidance is based on current commodity prices of approximately $112 per ton.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS which includes the impact on our recycling facility in collection businesses.
Turning to fourth quarter year-over-year margin.
Q4 2012 adjusted EBITDA margin was 26.4% compared to 29.8% in the prior year a 340 basis point decrease.
Of this  change 180 basis points relates to the remediation charge Don discussed 40 basis points relates to net fuel and commodity and about 30 basis points relates to the work day increase.
Excluding these items adjusted EBITDA margin was approximately 29%.
The more significant items that comprise the margin change are first labor.
The 90 basis point increase in expense relates to the revenue mix between the collection and post-collection businesses and an increase in the number of workdays.
Collection volumes which have increased have associated labor costs while post-collection volumes commodity revenues and subcontract revenues are all down and these all have little or no variable labor cost.
Within those collection lines of business direct labor costs as a percentage of revenue remained relatively flat.
Second maintenance.
The 50 basis point increase in maintenance expense also primarily relates to the changes in revenue mix and workdays that I just discussed.
As a percentage of revenue maintenance declined to 8.4% from 8.5% in the third quarter.
We are beginning to anniversary the implementation costs of our maintenance initiative as well as the broad-based tire cost increases in 2012.
Third fuel.
The 30 basis point increase in expense is due to a 4% increase in the cost of diesel.
After considering the impact of related fuel recovery fees there was a net margin decline of 20 basis points.
Our 2013 guidance is based on the current cost of diesel of approximately $4.02 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.20 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which includes the impact of our fuel recovery fees and our fuel hedges.
Fourth landfill operating costs.
The 180 basis point increase in expense relates to a $37 million remediation charge for environmental conditions at a closed landfill in Missouri.
As Don mentioned earlier this charge resulted in a $0.06 reduction in EPS in the fourth quarter.
Excluding this charge landfill operating costs as a percentage of revenue were essentially flat with the prior year.
Last on cost of goods sold.
The 40 basis point improvement relates to a reduction in rebates paid for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold decreased to an average of $28 per ton from $41 per ton in the prior year.
While the change in cost was favorable when you consider the more significant decrease in related commodity revenues there was a 20 basis point decline in EBITDA margin.
With respect to SG&amp;A our fourth quarter 2012 SG&amp;A was 10.2% of revenue.
This improvement of 40 basis points primarily relates to cost savings from the reorganization of our field operations and corporate office in the fourth quarter of 2012 and a reduction in incentive compensation expense.
Our annual run rate SG&amp;A is approximately 10% of revenue.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.6% in Q4 2012 versus 11.5% in the prior year.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense taxes and free cash flow.
Thanks Glenn.
Q4 2012 interest expense was $92 million which included $12 million of noncash amortization.
Our 2013 EPS guidance includes total interest expense of approximately $365 million.
This includes noncash interest of approximately $45 million.
The full year 2012 effective tax rate included in our adjusted EPS was 32.2%.
This rate reflects the benefit from favorably settling open tax years.
We expect an effective tax rate of approximately 38% in 2013 which can vary from quarter-to-quarter.
There is a $0.17 EPS headwind as a result of a higher tax rate in 2013 when compared to 2012.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Full year 2012 adjusted free cash flow was $768 million in line with our expectations.
As Don mentioned our guidance for 2013 adjusted free cash flow is in the range of $675 million to $700 million.
This guidance includes the impact from the recent extension of bonus depreciation for tax purposes.
As a result of the changes in the net impact of bonus depreciation and favorable settlements in 2012 that are not expected to repeat there is a year-over-year increase in cash taxes of approximately $150 million.
In 2013 there is a negative impact of bonus depreciation of approximately $50 million when you consider the favorable impact of the end year bonus depreciation being more than offset by the cumulative impact from prior years.
Bonus depreciation is a timing issue and once a deduction has been taken for tax purposes it is no longer available.
Since bonus depreciation has been in effect since 2008 there is very little tax shield available from prior years.
Bonus depreciation will impact our free cash flow performance for the next 4 to 5 years.
Now I'll discuss the balance sheet.
At December 31 our accounts receivable balance was $837 million and our days outstanding was 38 days or 23 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7.1 billion at December 31.
And excess credit available under our bank facility was approximately $1.4 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Before moving to Q&amp;A I would like to address the recent discussion about the solid waste industry moving to a REIT type structure.
Now I want to be very clear about this.
We have reviewed the matter internally and with outside tax advisors.
We have concluded that under current IRS guidelines these types of structures do not work for Republic on a technical tax basis as well as for strategic business reasons.
As a matter of policy we do not publicly discuss tax planning strategies that we considered to be proprietary.
In 2013 we're going to focus on what -- our attention on what we do best and that's executing our long-term strategy of profitably growing and operating our North American solid waste and recycling businesses.
We will accomplish this by continuing our pricing programs and utilizing our ROI-based tools; growing the business through sales acquisitions and investments in recycling and processing capability; enhancing the customer experience by continuously improving our service delivery and differentiating our service offering; managing our cost structure through programs designed to gain operational efficiencies including food automation CNG conversion and standardized maintenance practices; investing in our people building our talent and improving team engagement; being responsible stewards of the planet and its resources and maintaining our Investment Grade rating.
In summary our strategy has not changed.
It is designed to generate consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
We remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy which includes increasing cash returns to our stockholders through share repurchase and dividends.
At this time operator I would like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> First wanted to ask about the guidance.
And last quarter you provided some kind of initial thoughts on the year and it sounds like the EPS range you're giving here is a little lower than that and the free cash flow it would bring is a little higher and I just wondered if you can bridge what the reasons are for the differential? Well our preliminary outlook that we provided last quarter is sort of encased in this -- I think we gave you $1.90 to $1.92 as preliminary outlook and we're now saying $1.86 to $1.91.
So we're still in that range.
We had a little softness in special wastes that we built into our plan and for 2013 I would tell you that that makes up the bulk of it.
And on the cash flow story we originally talked about $650 million and was bringing that number up to the $675 million to $700 million is the in-year benefit from the extension of bonus depreciation for calendar '13.
And also keep in mind when we talked on the November 1 call that was more of a preliminary outlook not detailed guidance because we had not completed our full year budget planning process.
So it was just kind of a preliminary outlook not the financial guidance which we're providing today.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Understand.
And then a question on the pricing front I was just wondering if you can just speak to kind of sequential trends in competitive markets.
And then how should we be thinking about the quarterly trend in 2013 in CPI increases it's more of a issue where it gets better as the year goes on or does it flatline or go the opposite direction? Well we're talking about sequential first right? So we've had now 2 quarters sequentially of 1% plus core price.
So that's a good thing coming off where we were and sort of 50 basis points for a few quarters prior.
So trending up again we're giving you guidance from 1% to 1.5% for the full year.
We're going to have a little bit of a headwind in CPI later in the year and the second half will start to kind of show up in the following year.
Overall I think the trends are pretty consistent with what we've seen.
We don't see the market deteriorating maybe getting a little better but we're going to continue doing what we do best and that is again as I said in my comments using ROI tools and pricing consistently in the business.
And then on the restricted price or the index based markets we still see the calendar 2011 CPI influencing our restricted market pricing in the first half of this year and then the calendar '12 CPI number will come in in the second half of the year.
Remember we continue to remind you guys it takes 12 or 18 months for that CPI to run through our business the way our contracts are structured.
Correct.
And the CPI for calendar '12 was just a little bit above 2%.
So with the combination of the open market pricing and then the restricted market pricing we're giving guidance to 1% to 1.5%.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow on.
I was hoping maybe you could comment a little more granularity about the competitive market because if you have 40% and about 2% price it seems very challenged to get price in the other components of your business if you're guiding 1% to 1.5% I realize it's up.
But it still seems like we're having some choppiness in the markets is that fair? Well I think what you have to also factor in to the restricted marking -- market pricing is the pressure we've talked about through last year on the renewals of the municipal contracts.
Although the contracts that are in midstream are being influenced by last year's CPI keep in mind as contracts come up for renewal given the state of municipal finance we are seeing some lower pricing levels on average on those contract renewals.
So although you're getting the 2% as I mentioned in the second half of this year on the existing business you have to kind of look at it on a net basis and factor in the fact that typically on an annual basis we have about $350 million of municipal revenue renewing.
And so on a net basis we're coming up to that 1% to 1.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Don I think your recap of the growth initiatives at least for '13 has a nice lead into a the announcements you made today.
And then second there has been in the press and I think it was in one of your larger markets about recycling and some of the cost involved there.
So maybe to the extent you want to talk about any one of those particular contracts great.
Although generally its heaven.
But maybe you can talk through what you're seeing on the recycling side in terms of the growth? Well let me start Al by kind of saying that the business -- this business doesn't move at a rapid pace.
So when you set out a plan to invest in a certain area or move into initiative it takes a number of years to roll into it.
So if we take the privatization in Flint Michigan that you were referring to -- Ed mentioned the pressure we're getting in the municipal renewal with the state of municipal finance we're having some price pressure there.
The same thing that's causing that price pressure I think is causing some municipalities to rethink whether they should hire somebody like Republic Services to do the trash and recycling service.
So we're going to put continued effort into that area of privatization and we'll continue to plow that ground.
We don't have a lot of that built it into our pipeline or into our -- even our plan but we got a few of those that we're working through and will continue to see some wins there I think over the next several years.
As rates to recycling we've talked about this a lot and we've got 25 markets that we think we need to invest in across our 240 markets.
And we do that to the tune of 3 to 5 markets a year.
So just like we've done for the last 2 years in 2013 we'll invest in several markets to further build our recycling capability and answer the customer demand and to be competitive and broaden our service offering in the market.
So it's a very steady pace of change and a very steady pace but a focused pace.
Research Division</strong> Could you just comment -- I know we wanted to limit questions here but on that point have the economics changed at all? Because I know you were at least heeding us to be a little conservative on the economics around recycling given...
Remember we told you when we look at those contracts we -- and we perform on those investments we look at the 10-year average.
And right now the commodity prices are right near the 10-year average.
So over the cycle we think those investments still makes sense as I said Al we are not moving at a rapid pace.
We're spending a portion of our capital budget every year.
It's the right thing to do for the customer base.
It's the -- it's answering customer demand and we're moving I think at the right pace.
The investments all have a good return.
Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Don just on the special waste you mentioned.
Is the bidding environment -- is it just more aggressive? Are there less jobs out there? Or do you see a potential where there are some more bids later in the year that might change all that? Yes.
It feels like it's just the event business Bill just people deferring jobs and maybe their discretionary budgets being tightened.
So that's not unusual to see that in the second half of the year when people are uncertain about what their next year looks like for some of our customers.
But again as we said in our comments every year when we bring guidance forward we can only kind of base it on what we know today.
So when we look at the current state of special waste the current state of commodities the current state of fuel we bake that into our guidance.
Could it get better? Sure it could.
But we're seeing a slowdown here in Q4 and we're kind of baking that into at least the first half of this year and we'll see how the pipeline treats us.
I think we saw a kind of historic in Q3 and continue into Q4 and I think it would be consistent with the general news that you saw about some of the trimming of corporate capital expenditure budgets and even some of the government spending given when you go back to the second half of last year some of the political and economic uncertainty heading into year end.
So it's not like these projects have been canceled.
Generally the folks who had awarded us the business are just telling us it's been deferred but until the business actually comes into the revenue stream we're not going to put it into our budget or our forecast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just following up on Q4 your labor and maintenance costs were up like mid-single digits and I think you had an extra day in there but just looking at '13 do you see some of that easing off a bit with like the One Fleet on the maintenance side? Or how would you look at those costs? Yes.
We're seeing -- Bill this is Glenn.
We're seeing a slowdown in our maintenance cost increases.
And actually in the fourth quarter it was lower as a percentage of revenue than the third quarter.
And we'll see more of that we believe in 2013.
And on the labor it's going to move with our volumes on the collections side of the business we hope to do more if we do there will be labor costs associated with that.
So on the maintenance initiatives by the end of this year we'll have -- by end of '13 we'll have about half the fleet addressed.
As I said we've kind of stretched that to maybe a 4-plus year program.
So we'll have half the fleet address.
We've anniversary-ed the uptick and then we'll start to see the longer the new maintenance practices are in place we'll start to see the benefits start to come in as we start to impact the second half of the fleet in the out years.
Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Mortgage (sic) [Markets].
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about C&amp;D volumes.
Are you seeing any pick up in roll off activity? Yes so we said in the comments that our temporary roll off business hauls venture and hauls was up over 5% in Q4 year-over-year.
But it's coming off of a very low base.
So when it comes to construction and demolition construction specifically we're very late cycle.
And so we're pretty excited about the 5% uptick.
But it's coming off a pretty low base.
So we'll continue to be late cycle that's just the way our business is and we'll continue to get our fair share of that growth as it comes through the pipeline.
Research Division</strong> And then were there any impacts to your business from Hurricane Sandy in the quarter? Not really to speak of.
We're not heavily engaged in that part of the country.
We had some -- a few impacts in New Jersey.
But you know how all those things work is they cost you a little bit of money upfront with revenue interruptions and service interruptions and some additional cost to run your facilities without power and such and then you make a little bit of money on the backhand.
But net-net of net you don't really make out too well.
So it's about net even for us.
Research Division</strong> And lastly I just wanted to ask I mean Commercial and Industrial revenue is up really nicely year-over-year in Q4.
I mean are those kinds of growth rates sustainable? Well I guess some of that is anniversary-ing some losses et cetera.
We've got that baked into our guidance.
We've got some continued anniversary-ing of some volume in the first half of the year some contracts we lost last year and then it starts to come back to us in the second half.
So it’s probably too early to tell on construction and demolition and some of these things but directionally it's good.
And I would tell you that we feel better about where it's heading coming into this year than we have in the last couple of years.
Next question comes from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your mix shift toward collection.
I appreciate the comments that were made earlier on labor in the quarter.
I guess just going forward based on what you could see in the macro right now is the mix issue something that's likely to be an ongoing headwind? Or is it maybe a quarter or 2 blip until we see maybe the landfill situation reverse in L.A.? Well Joe I would say seeing increasing activity in any line of business we would view as being a positive not in any way a negative.
So I think the increasing versus the volumes we're seeing in the collection business is a reflection of a little bit better economic activity.
Their results we're seeing from our marketing efforts and what we would view in total as a positive.
I also think the blend of say collections and post-collection or disposal revenue is also kind of reflecting as Don had in his speaker notes.
We did lose a number of larger disposal contracts earlier in calendar '12 and we just haven't anniversary-ed those numbers yet.
And then second is as we discussed on a previous question a little bit lower what we would identify as event special waste streams those tied to corporate capital spending or some type of government related work were being deferred in the second half of 2012.
So on a net basis the revenue mix were shifting a little bit and just the fact that collection is a little bit more labor-intensive will impact some of the average cost items.
But if the event work comes back then I think things will just rebalance to a previous level.
And those large contracts that we lost that we mentioned about 9 months ago they all anniversary out by the end of June.
So we go into Q3 with that behind us.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
I appreciate that.
A question for you on your automated arm conversion I mean you guys seem to be making maybe the most visible push with this initiative and I certainly understand it’s a major productivity tool.
I'm just kind of curious is it having maybe any unforeseen impact on your landfill volume? Well the landfill volumes' more impacted by the conversion to a multi-cart system and one sort capability when you give a customer a 90 gallon cart for recycling versus an 18 gallon bin that they maybe had previously.
Automation is first and foremost aimed at the waste collection side and then supplemented with the expansion of our recycling business.
So productivity is #1 gain driver safety driver engagement broadly the hardened demographic all those are really good things.
The customers like the carts.
So it's got a good -- it adds to our customer experience.
And then as we add a cart for recycling and so on it does drive the recycling volumes up which is what the customers want to see.
So that's all built into our plan.
When we look at investments in recycling we look at the market pre-investment and the vertically integrated market post-investment and these investments make sense to us.
And just to [indiscernible] we exited 2012 with approximately 62% of the residential fleet being automated.
We do plan to buy or convert over another 200 routes in calendar '13.
So at that pace we should exit '13 with approximately 66% or about 2/3 of the residential system being automated.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just one more clarification I apologize if I missed this earlier.
So on the $37 million environmental charge in the quarter should we think about that as a recurring item to a certain degree? And do you guys have any additional charges for the landfill included in your 2013 guidance? No.
It's a remediation charge.
So essentially there is a process we conduct internally with both internal and external engineering group.
That work is then also reviewed by our outside auditors and their engineering staff and it is viewed as a one-time item so that we incur that as an expense in the current quarter but it will be spent over multiple years.
So although we do take the charge in a single quarter from a cash flow perspective it's extended.
The payment is over a multiyear period.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
But on the...
But it's not a recurring charge.
Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on that last question the remediation charge.
I believe this is the second quarter in a row that we've had a remediation charge.
And so as we think about your outlook for 2013 are you including any potential remediation charges on that number? No.
The answer is you're right.
It is the second quarter that we've done this.
There was further engineering work done that necessitated the additional $37 million charge.
But we do a full engineering review at all of our landfills annually and out of that process we do not see any other remediation cost in '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to get back to the discussion around C&amp;D volumes.
At the end of 2012 can you tell us what percentage of your volumes would be exposed to the C&amp;D market? And as you think about your 2013 volume outlook are you factoring in any volume growth in the C&amp;D category at this point? Are you going to leave that as potential upside to your expectations? Well no.
We don't factor in any type of economic outlook or forecast into the financial guidance we've provided today.
As far as the revenue contribution on the collection side the C&amp;D or collection and demolition work represents between 6% and 7% of our total revenue.
And then probably between 2% and 3% on the landfill side where we're taking debris from other haulers.
So in total it's kind of high single-digit of our total revenue.
I think that the conferences we've attended we have spoken in the past at the peak of the economic cycle say in the '05 '06 period C&amp;D both collection and disposal it was about 17% of the revenue and then at a trough which was probably late '09 first half of '10 it was about 7% of our revenue.
So we're obviously up off the trough.
But still down significantly from the peak of the economy that we saw in '05 first half of '06.
Our guidance is based on what we know today about the economy and as it changes and/or improves.
We'll be talking to you about it quarter-by-quarter.
Next comes from Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Don given how much the REIT landscape has changed as you know maybe help us understand what is your downside in going and seeking out a no name private letter ruling? As you know there's nothing black and white with REIT conversions particularly recently.
Hamzah as I said in my comments we're not going to spend time on the call today talking about the restructure.
We've done our work.
We had a lot of discussion about it internally with external advisers.
We even talked about it with our board.
We have concluded as I said in my comments that it doesn't pass the test in our mind and it doesn't fit our business.
So let's move past it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe a follow-up along the same lines if you could share any work you've done on the MLP structure and what your views are there? My answer is the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Maybe I'll ask a question on the business then.
Maybe if you could talk about -- do you think we are past the pricing pressures that we've seen in this business over the last few years? Pricing has come off each year since we came out of the downturn.
Are we past the pricing trough in your mind? Or do we have -- or is 2014 sort of the recovery year for you guys? And we still see sort of price relief going on in some parts of your business this year? Well I think I would categorize it as saying we're coming out of the trough.
We are probably about halfway through our Commercial -- or I'm sorry our Residential Municipal business.
As you know those contracts are call it 5 years on average in duration.
We've been taking some price rollbacks to extend those business -- those business contracts over the last several years.
We're probably halfway maybe a little better than halfway through that.
We're going to continue to see some price pressure there as the municipalities have their own pressures related to their tax base et cetera.
So we baked that into our guidance for this year.
We expect to have some continued pressure.
As it relates to the open market we think -- we think as we probably said many times we think generally larger companies tend to be rational and we think sometimes the very small companies tend to be less rational.
The best thing for pricing in that situation is going to be some organic growth as organic volume returns to the sector we think the open market pricing improves and that's just the nature of open competition.
I think that will give us a little bit of a tailwind.
The other thing that we face of course is half our business is indexed to CPI and we've seen a little bit of up and down here in CPI.
But we're still kind of holding up better than we did a couple of years ago where we had CPI in the flat negative and 1% range.
So again I'd characterize that as sort of the past.
And coming out of the trough we've got a couple of quarters of plus 1% core price in -- ending '12 and so our exit speed in '12 is good and we'll continue to be diligent in the way we price our business.
So we're feeling pretty good about it and I think that's recognizing our guidance of 1% to 1.5% price.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask a follow up question since you didn't answer the first 2 tax questions.
How should investors...
[indiscernible] question? Research Division</strong> I said can I ask a follow-up on the business? Maybe if you could frame for us when you think we'll see the benefits of a housing recovery in your numbers and what the lag there is? Any sort of derivative impacts of a housing recovery like new business formation et cetera? Well it's raised the housing construction.
I would tell you that we're probably at least -- we're probably 12 months to follow.
So again late cycle.
We've got to see these housing starts turn into finished houses and again that's where the waste is generated and then when you see business formation around that.
So we're hopeful the way you are but we're also cautious and we don't want to be the guys out there trying to predict the economy.
It hasn't worked for us too much in the past.
So we're going to -- again base our guidance as we have on what we know about the economy today and as it improves we're going to be talking to you about it every 90 days and giving you guys updates on what we're experiencing and seeing.
And like you hoping for the best as it relates to that and that would be upside for us.
The next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Glenn welcome aboard by the way.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about return on invested capital and your annual incentive compensation plan as we go into '13? As a group and individually the companies have been fighting sort of a negative slope on the line of ROIC for all the reasons that have been talked about ad nauseum today and previously.
But the trends are shifting and based on your dataset it feels like you should reverse that trend in the ROIC in '13 and could you talk about your annual incentive comp plan how it drives some of the behavior to assure that happens? Michael #1 there's been no change in our incentive compensation systems.
We have 2 programs for management one is an annual plan and the other one is a 3-year rolling plan we call it a long term incentive plan or an LTIP.
The ROIC calculation really comes into the rolling 3-year LTIP plan.
And essentially there are 2 metrics in the plan.
One metric is return on invested capital and the second is we term as cash value creation.
So essentially it's a balanced approach where we look at -- you get the maximum or higher payouts when you show gradual improvement on return on invested capital over time.
And also free cash flow growth.
But what we want to recognize in the compensation system it's not just one-sided.
Meaning we don't want to shrink the greatness just to grow the ROIC.
We also want to grow the free cash flow in the business.
So although we'll have very firm hurdle rates based on our weighted average cost of capital and associated premiums for business risk we want to grow the free cash flow we want to grow the revenue and we're also looking to return or improve our return on invested capital.
So essentially it's a balanced approach over time in order for management to maximize their pay out.
So Michael we think we have all the right triggers as Ed said cash flow EPS ROI and cash value creation all the way down to the local manager.
They have upping targets and they have pricing plans built-in to their plans and they also get charged for CapEx.
Right so there is no free CapEx at Republic Services.
So we're hyper-focused on cash and as you said the #1 thing we've faced over the last couple of years putting pressure on ROI has been price compression.
And the #1 thing that's going to drive that forward is going to be some organic growth that's going to change that.
It's going to impact CPI it's going to impact sort of a small competitive behavior and a little bit of new volume growth will sort of come in at a higher margin than average.
All of those things will help move that ROI forward and as it relates to price we've got 3 strong controls in place internally so that we don't have people out there pricing our post-collection assets in a way that is in conflict with our growth plans for the marketplace.
So we think we've got the right controls and processes in place to keep pricing moving in an intelligent direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then change of direction slightly.
Are you starting to see in your collection operations in the market new business formation? The empty storefront in the strip mall or it's the new Dunkin' Donuts being opened.
Is that -- how would you characterize what's happening in the marketplace? Yes.
I would say it's not quite a headline yet.
But as I said to answer some of these questions -- some of these questions earlier we -- generally I speak for the whole management team we feel better about the business as we exited '12 than we did a year ago.
We feel better about some of the growth potential  out there that we're seeing and some of the anecdotal things that we're seeing than we did a year ago.
So I think -- somebody mentioned I think it was Hamzah who mentioned where are you at the trough? I think we're coming out of the trough.
But again this business doesn't change very quickly.
You probably heard my predecessor say that 1 000 times in the time that you knew him.
So it's true in this business but it's directionally good and we think this guidance is again a good step forward for the company it creates net of some of the adjustments good high-single digit cash flow growth and EPS growth and as the organic growth comes back and we have continued success in executing all of our plans and our productivity measures we're reporting quarter-by-quarter and again hopefully we'll see some of that growth everybody wants to see.
The next question comes from Barbara Noverini with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on your National Accounts business? And on a related note I appreciate your earlier commentary on your pace of investment in recycling capacity.
But do you feel that this pace is sufficient enough to remain competitive in winning new national accounts? How important is this to your future growth plans? Yes.
So we have 240 markets that our business is divided into 40 states.
But 240 marketplaces.
We have coverage across those marketplaces either through handle recycling for our national accounts either through company-owned facilities or through partnerships with a third-party networks.
So we have -- in markets where we don't have our own capacity we have contracted with other third parties to handle our recycling processing et cetera.
So we've got about 80 or so percent coverage across those markets which we think is substantial and sufficient quite frankly to provide the services needed and requested by our national account clients.
So we are growing our National Accounts business.
We have even recently unveiled some very new programs for some of our existing National Accounts who wants to see more recycling and diversion.
So we're very active in that space and we'll continue to do that.
So we don't think we're deficient and as I said we'll continue to be very steady in our approach in investing in the business.
So we're going to spend about 10% of our revenues every year in CapEx.
It takes a certain amount of money to replace the fleet every year to replace containers that rust out to replace airspace in our landfills that is consumed and then we have enough left over to do 3 to 5 markets a year as it relates to building our recycling capability.
We think that pace is sufficient based on my earlier comment of the coverage we have with our third-party network and alliances.
So we'll continue on the march in a slow and steady pace slow and steady wins the race.
The tortoise is never boastful but the tortoise perseveres.
So that's our view on life here at Republic Services.
Research Division</strong> I know in the past you've been able to give us how much revenues that business represents for you.
Could you give that to us again? Recycling probably represents about 9% or 10% of our total revenue.
Research Division</strong> No no no for your National Accounts business how much of that...
National Accounts well we've not made disclosures specifically about National Accounts as a percentage of total revenue.
The next question comes from Stewart Scharf with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
Could you talk a little bit about -- you mentioned you're stewards of the climate and a little more about your renewables and environmental initiatives what you're planning to do with that.
And also regarding landfills your landfill life is -- averages roughly 60-plus years and I was wondering with all recycling increasing is that looking to -- like it will extend further or stay pretty much close to that target? Okay Stewart.
So you've probably heard us talk before about something we call the evolving ton which kind of describes the fact that we think that total waste stream in America is changing.
And frankly growing.
Per capita I think people are throwing out maybe a little less trash year-over-year but the population continues to grow.
And so in total the waste stream grows year-on-year.
Our business grows with population growth as the tonnage increases household formation and the like.
So today we have a substantial recycling business albeit it's a small percentage of the whole.
We continue to build out our recycling capabilities as I just talked about with the last question.
And we haven't seen again a substantial shift year-on-year of waste coming out of the landfill into -- into our recycling plants but it is a steady pace of change.
We believe more and more of the growth in the waste stream will come from recycling and diverted materials.
So we've got a great asset base in our landfills.
We may not fill some of the air space today but we'll fill it up over time.
And so we've described before that these landfills are not like airline seats.
The volume -- just because you don't fill the seat today you haven't lost the opportunity.
That landfill airspace will become more valuable over time.
So we continue to invest in recycling in the markets that want it and when customers demand it and are willing to pay for it.
And it makes sense economically and with a great return.
So we're very focused on that.
We're focused on being good stewards of the planet with our engineering group and running our facilities well.
We continue to build out our CNG fleet of -- roughly half of our CNG -- roughly half of our truck buy this year again a little bit less than half this year will be CNG fuel.
So we're continuing to take advantage of 1 the cost savings but also the fact that it's a very clean alternative for fuel source.
So again a steady pace of change continually rolling out these initiatives and taking -- making a little bit of progress every year toward our ultimate goal.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence in creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services' conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your host for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Glenn Culpepper CFO; and Ed Lang Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Bryan.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I'd like to welcome everyone to Republic Services First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Glenn Culpepper our CFO are joining me as we discuss our first quarter 2013 performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information that we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that would cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is April 25 2013.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services first quarter 2013 performance.
I am pleased with our first quarter performance which reflects an overall improvement in business conditions.
We saw sequential increases in core pricing volume and margins which drove our strong Q1 results.
We continue to profitably grow our core business as evidenced by year-over-year increases in revenue earnings and free cash flow.
Some of the financial and operational highlights during the quarter include: adjusted earnings per share of $0.46 this represents an increase of $0.08 or approximately 21% versus the prior year; adjusted free cash flow of $213 million which was in line with our expectations; adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 40 basis points reflecting the benefit of our field and corporate office reorganization completed in the fourth quarter of 2012; Q1 core price was 1.2% this represents the third straight quarter of core price improvement; net price-to-customer defined as price increases less rollbacks was 3.2% in the first quarter.
Based on Q1 industry results reported to date our net price-to-customer performance is the highest in the industry.
Q1 volumes declined 50 basis points.
This represents a sequential improvement of 60 basis points after adjusting for the change in workdays.
Consistent with our guidance we expect to see positive volume performance in the second half 2013.
We continue to see growth in construction and demolition volumes with temporary roll-off hauls up 2.4% over the prior year.
And if you remember 2012 had a very mild winter which creates a tough comp for this portion of our business.
We continue to see growth in our recycling business.
Q1 recycling facility tons increased approximately 8% over the prior year.
Additionally we completed an upgrade to a single-stream recycling facility in St.
Louis which will add about 70 000 annual recycling tons into our system.
We completed 7 acquisitions for approximately $12 million.
These transactions were consistent with our strategy of purchasing tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets.
This level of investment was expected in the first quarter and we anticipate completing our goal of spending $100 million by the end of the year.
We returned approximately $161 million to stockholders through share repurchase and dividends.
We repurchased 2.4 million shares for $76 million which was consistent with our plan.
We have $248 million remaining on our share repurchase authorization which we expect to complete in 2013.
In summary our strong performance in the first quarter was in line with our expectations and keeps us on track to achieve the full year guidance we provided in February.
Consistent with prior practice we will update our full year guidance on our Q2 earnings call in July.
Glenn and Ed will now discuss our financial performance.
Glenn? Thanks Don.
First quarter 2013 revenue was approximately $2 billion and reflects the following 3 components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First on pricing.
We had core price growth of 1.2% with positive price in all lines of business.
Core price increased 10 basis points sequentially from 1.1% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This level of pricing was in line with our expectations for the first quarter and we remain comfortable with our full year guidance of 1% to 1.5%.
In addition fuel recovery fees increased 0.3%.
The average price per gallon of diesel increased to $4.03 in the quarter from $3.97 in the prior year an increase of 2%.
Second first quarter volumes decreased 5 -- 0.5% year-over-year excluding a 50-basis-point decline due to 1 less work day.
The collection business was positive 0.4% including growth in commercial and industrial volumes.
Growth in the industrial line of business was driven by temporary hauls which as Don indicated earlier were up 2.4% over the prior year.
The growth in collection was offset by a decline in municipal solid waste landfill volumes of approximately 4%.
Most of the decline in MSW relates to volumes lost in 2012 that have not yet anniversary-ed and the impact of weather.
Third a decrease in commodity sales resulted in a 0.2% decrease in revenue.
Commodity prices decreased approximately 9% to an average price of $112 per ton in the first quarter from $123 per ton in the prior year.
This represents the average price for all commodity types for all regions.
Q1 recycling facility commodity volume of 539 000 tons was up 8% from the prior year.
Our 2013 guidance was based on an average commodity price of $112 per ton.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS which includes the impact on our recycling facility and collection businesses.
Now I will discuss year-over-year margin.
First quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.5% compared to 28.1% in the prior year an improvement of 40 basis points.
Some of the more significant items that comprise the margin change include: first labor.
The 40 basis point increase in expense primarily relates to revenue mix.
There was a decline in landfill and commodity revenues which have little to no associated labor costs.
Within the collection lines of business direct labor costs as a percentage of revenue remained relatively flat.
Second maintenance.
The 30-basis-point increase in expense primarily relates to the change in revenue mix that I just discussed.
Sequentially margin performance improved 20 basis points as we continued to anniversary the implementation costs associated with our maintenance initiative.
Third fuel.
The 20-basis-point improvement primarily relates to a higher percentage of natural gas trucks in our fleet.
Currently about 9% of our fleet runs on natural gas.
This represents an increase in our natural gas fleet of approximately 50% when compared to the prior year.
We will continue to replace diesel trucks with the natural gas trucks where appropriate and as part of our normal truck replacement cycle.
As I mentioned earlier the average price per gallon of diesel increased to $4.03 in the first quarter of 2013 from $3.97 in the prior year an increase of approximately 2%.
The current price for diesel fuel is $3.89 per gallon.
Our 2013 guidance is based on an average diesel price of $4.02 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.20 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which includes the impact of our fuel recovery fees and fuel hedges.
Fourth landfill operating costs the 80-basis-point increase in expense relates primarily to a favorable adjustment recorded in 2012.
Additionally there was an increase in leachate expense in the current year in certain landfills.
Fifth risk management.
The 20-basis-point improvement relates to reductions in premiums charged by third-party carriers as well as an improvement in our claims experience.
Next cost of goods sold.
The 10-basis-point improvement relates to a reduction in rebates paid for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
Cost of goods sold decreased to an average of $32 per ton from $38 in the prior year.
Finally SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A was 10.3% of revenue which is an improvement of 90 basis points compared to the prior year.
This improvement primarily relates to cost savings from the reorganization of our field operations and corporate office in the fourth quarter of 2012 and lower levels of bad debt expense.
On an annual run rate SG&amp;A is approximately 10% of revenue.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.4% in the first quarter versus 11.8% in the prior year.
This improvement relates to an unfavorable landfill liability adjustment that was recorded in the prior year.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense taxes and free cash flow.
Thanks Glenn.
First quarter 2013 interest expense was $89 million which included $12 million of noncash amortization.
First quarter adjusted EPS had an effective tax rate of 33.4% which included a benefit from favorably settling open tax years with the IRS.
This benefit was included in our guidance which we provided in February.
We still expect a full year effective tax rate of approximately 38%.
And therefore our effective tax rate will be approximately 39.5% for the remainder of the year.
I will now discuss free cash flow.
Adjusted free cash flow was $213 million and in line with our expectations.
Adjusted free cash flow included capital expenditures of $214 million or approximately 1/4 of our projected full year spend.
Cash flow can vary quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of working capital.
Now I'll discuss the balance sheet.
At March 31 our accounts receivable balance was $822 million and our days sales outstanding was 37 days or 23 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at March 31.
And excess availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.6 billion.
I'll now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
To conclude our first quarter results put us right where we thought we would be.
I'm proud that the Republic team continued to execute our strategy and our strong performance reflects our hard work.
We built a strong vertically integrated national platform and remained well positioned to take advantage of improving business conditions.
We will continue to focus on generating consistent earnings and cash flow growth and remain committed to an efficient cash utilization strategy that increases returns to our stockholders.
At this time operator I'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Hamzah Mazari Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on pricing.
Don maybe you could talk about any change to how you're approaching pricing this year? One of your competitors is obviously out with a more aggressive pricing strategy.
And your pricing strategy maybe you could talk about how you're approaching pricing this year relative to last year and the year before given that volumes appear to be more stable.
Well I mean we're going to adjust or approach pricing the same way we always have Hamzah and we've got a good system in place a good central control over our pricing structure.
We talk a lot about our ratable pricing method and how we oversee pricing with our post-collection side of the business.
I've said very consistently that I think as the economy returns as some organic growth comes back into the business that pricing dynamics will improve I think consumer sentiment improves and sensitivity gets better.
I think all of that paves the way for stronger pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on salaries and allowances for doubtful accounts that went down and you mentioned the restructuring.
Maybe you could talk about how sustainable that is going forward and what you have baked into your current guidance? Well okay.
Well we've said very clearly we think our SG&amp;A is going to be right at around 10% and that's been a pretty consistent number for us.
Obviously the more growth we get over time we can maybe get a little bit of leverage there.
But 10% is our number for the year and we -- as far as sustainability goes the actions we took in the restructuring are very very sustainable and the organization is functioning very well as a result of restructuring.
Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Don this is sort of a broader question and I'll let you decide how to explain it or answer it.
But if I look just at the top line and I look at cost of goods sold growth rate in sales is below the cost the full cost of doing business.
And you're not alone in that and that several other companies have done that.
But specifically are there things that you're seeing that we should start to expect that sort of relationship to flip around going forward? Yes.
I think first of all when we talk about the negative growth or the negative volume in the first half.
Remember we've got some anniversary-ing of some key contracts that were lost or large contracts that were lost last year.
So we still believe that we're going to be positive growth in the second half which sort of nets us to sort of flat flattish by the end of the year but we think the business is growing.
We talked about sequential improvement in pricing now for several quarters.
We got a pretty positive story on the collection side of the business and we've got -- our landfill business is negative.
But again that's coming from a couple of large contracts and maybe a little bit of weather that we're facing.
Overall we think the trends are positive.
So sequential pricing improvement is a good thing.
As I just answered Hamzah's question as some organic growth comes back into the business we think those dynamics around pricing and our ability to improve or recover if you will the inflationary cost get better as we go through time.
And Al this is Ed.
Also keep in mind that as you start to see positive volume growth that does lead to better density better asset utilization which means you're just simply getting better return on the existing asset base so -- and as Don mentioned that's something we've been talking about quite a while due to the late cycle nature of the business that as we start to see the volume improvement we get the better asset utilization which will lead to expanding margins and a less competitive pricing environment as the industry continues to grow.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up would be -- we've talked a little bit about this previously but just to be clear the number of strikes or labor issues that have been popping up in the press I think you called out in the reconciliation some of that.
Maybe it would be good idea to just to clarify for folks sort of where you're at in terms of the frequency of these that are showing up in the press.
I'd like to refer to it as sort of drive-by strikes because they're not very long duration but they're certainly a headwind.
Right sure.
Well the issue we're facing right now is primarily related to the Central States Pension issue.
And so we've got a portion of our business a number of our drivers that are covered by the Central States Pension which is headed for insolvency.
There's no way mathematically for that fund to save itself.
And so we are in the process of negotiating our way out of the Central States Pension.
We have every intention of getting out of the pension.
We have a very strong feeling that we want all of our employees to be covered by a high quality retirement vehicle.
And being part of a pension plan that's going to be insolvent in the future is not that.
So we're working hard for our employees to get them into something that makes sense for them.
We're about halfway through the number of CBAs that are affected by Central States and we're working through the second half.
So we hope to be through that by the end of the year.
Having said all that we historically have had a very good relationship a very constructive relationship with the local unions and their leadership.
We intend to continue to have that and we continue to bargain in good faith to get through this.
Corey Greendale First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> A question on -- I think Don you gave a statistic net price net of rollbacks where you said you're leading the industry.
And I'm not sure I exactly know how you're calculating that.
But if you are leading the industry I think it was about a year ago you were talking about fiercely defending your business.
So it seems like kind of things have shifted from then.
To what do you attribute that kind of industry-leading metric? Well again price-to-customer if you will really measures the pricing activity of your business.
So what do you think price elasticity is in the market and how much price increase do you think you can capture in the marketplace.
So that metric of price-to-customer less rollbacks kind of measures that activity.
There's a lot of noise in the market about yield versus -- so I think all of the companies sort of measure price differently.
And so we just tried to bring a clearer view to that so that you can compare pricing effectiveness of the different organizations.
So we've introduced this price-to-customer metric to help me [ph] clear that up.
So again we think -- again our pricing activity is pretty consistent.
We cannot completely make up for inflationary increases just through cost controls and productivity gains.
So we have to have price increasing to offset that.
We've never gone price negative even through the darkest times of recent economic downturn.
And we've said that as the economy gets better as organic growth improves as other competitors have an opportunity to grow their business organically we think competition regulates or moderates a little bit.
It's always been a competitive business it always will be a competitive business.
We think it just softens a little bit and customer sentiment as I said before just improves.
So we think a lot of that is happening and we're going to continue doing what we have to do because we cannot simply again offset our cost inflation through our productivity gains.
So pricing has to happen in our company and I think in the industry to continue to hold up margins and grow the business profitably.
Research Division</strong> And on the productivity gains side Don you -- at one time you talked about kind of a parking lot of opportunities to improve efficiencies after some of the big ticket items after the Republic-Allied merger.
Could you just give us visibility on kind of where you're at -- how big is that parking lot now? And is there anything kind of meaningfully you're working on that we could be seeing in the near-term? That's a good question.
Corey we're working on the same things we were working last year.
Again we've got 30 000 employees 15 000 trucks 800 dots on the map right? So when we take on some kind of a change initiative across the enterprise it's a pretty big deal.
And a change in management is a pretty tough thing for people.
So things like the One Fleet initiative we'll be halfway through that by the end of this year.
We'll have affected half of our fleet so we've got another couple years ago.
Again when we get into next year we'll start seeing more benefits accrue from the One Fleet initiative.
We'll start to offset some of the costs of implementing One Fleet.
One Fleet is going to drive better productivity better employee engagement ultimately I think better customer experience.
So we'll start to see the benefits from that in -- the benefits from that in '14.
And then we'll build as we complete the initiative.
We've talked about CNG.
We're continuing to spend I think this year 40-plus percent of our fleet spend is on CNG trucks.
We're -- we've talked about building our fleet up to maybe 25% or 30% CNG over the future years.
That's going to be again a multiyear initiative.
So we've got a number of those things that were in the parking lot at the time of the merger that we've undertaken that are multiyear initiatives.
So none of these things happen fast.
When we get through these couple of big items then we'll be talking about what we conquer next.
But we're going to do these things really well we're do them across the enterprise and we're going to do them with results that we can count.
Next question Adam Thalhimer BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the C&amp;D volumes you said they were up a little over 2% year-over-year in the quarter and that maybe weather held that growth back a little bit.
I mean as this housing recovery matures what kind of growth rates do you think you might see in that line of business? Well you kind of look at what we saw starting the third quarter of last year.
In Q3 of last year we saw the temporary roll-off business grow by 3.8% and it was 5.7% in Q4 2.4% in Q1.
And as we mentioned in the comments 2 things one we had some real winter weather this year and I think when you look at our business regionally we did see a strong performance in that temporary roll-off business on the Western states Texas in the southeastern U.S.
which obviously are the geographic locations that were less impacted by the severe winter weather that we saw in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast.
So we don't really provide detailed guidance as to percentage quarterly gain but we believe it is tracking in the right direction.
And then the other thing is just as a comparison issue if you look at Q1 of '12 it was an exceptionally warm winter.
And I think if you go back and you look at the industry's performance in Q1 of '12 you saw a fairly let's call it elevated levels of C&amp;D activity which actually turned out to be just a pull forward of the normal Q2 activity in 2012.
And so the fact that we did have that 2.4% given the weather conditions in the Midwest and the Eastern states plus the tough comp we think the 2.4% is good-to-strong performance.
And we expect the C&amp;D business to continue to grow with the relative economies where we do business.
And obviously you look at all the housing stats and the architects’ index all those type of leading indicators are pointing in the right direction.
Yes 3 quarters in a row I think that's a real trend and we'll build on that from here.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean what does that feel like on the ground? I mean is there less capacity in that business? Are you -- are people -- are you getting more calls for containers? I mean does it feel more active to you? Yes it's more active.
I mean these -- the 2.4% those are measured in hauls right? So those are actual hauls being serviced by our fleets in the various markets that I talked about.
A little more active the west southeast Florida specifically.
A little less active in some of the markets where we have winter.
And as we get into May and June that's where we start to see seasonality in the business and that's going to be the telltale sign for us to see how the year comes in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up here I mean the expectation that volumes turn positive in the back half of the year is that all easier comps or are there some leading indicators in the business that would support that? That's mostly easier comps.
We anniversary a couple of big contracts that we lost that we had to talk about a year ago.
And we haven't had any continued contract loss of that size.
So we're going to anniversary those biggies and then we're going to get into a better comp in the last half of the year.
But then as Ed said these other trends are improving.
So we're pretty confident in the guidance we've given you.
Next question Michael Hoffman Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about sort of maybe putting a little sort of direction around the productivity? And I get the One Fleet the CNG conversion probably could be added to that is automation.
If you thought about natural inflation in the business is sort of 1.5% to 2% and we're living in this economy whatever this is this is the economy for a while.
What do you think you can do in productivity to help offset that natural inflation plus sort of that continual turning the screw on cost? What's the basis point kind of range to think about so that when we think about your pricing at 1.5% how that sort of plays out? Yes I think historically we've said it's kind of 20 to 30 basis points right a year.
So less than 1% certainly right? So we've been at this a long time Michael we're pretty productive and so we're working at the harder things now.
Again CNG makes sense to us because we're replacing trucks that are going to be otherwise disposed of.
So we're pacing ourselves there.
The One Fleet we're in the process now wherein where that's still costing us a little bit of money and we start to come over the top of that hill on that next year.
Things like single operator vehicles the automation we continue to reduce our workforce in that residential system become more efficient with fewer accidents so all of that stuff helps productivity so -- but we're pretty good at what we do and it's not like there's a lot of low-hanging fruit out there.
So if we get back to again 1.5% or 2% pricing and we have 1.5% inflation less call it 20 or 30 basis points of productivity we can start to see a little bit of margin expansion again as it relates to that pricing environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the household formation sort of the construction I mean we all love the C&amp;D but the real play is not only do they build it but they sell it and you get a residential contract.
And if they build enough of them and sell enough of them maybe somebody builds a restaurant or a strip mall.
So can you frame 2 things here one what are you seeing as far as that starting -- is there a light at the end of that tunnel? What's the sort of thoughts about that? And if it got to 1.2 million starts a year and lapped ourselves at 1.2 million what's that mean in volume in your mind? Well we're talking about 2013.
So I think we'd rather kind of stick with the guidance that we're talking about for this year.
Again as you know Michael we're late cycle in this.
So it's too early I think to tell or talk about business formation.
We're not really seeing a lot there yet.
So we're in the front end of this thing starting to see more temporary roll-off hauls.
We'll see more construction.
You hear the homebuilders talking about what they're going to do.
So we'll make those hauls to your point then we'll haul that house every month for the recurring revenue and we'll take our part of the -- our share of new organic growth in business formation.
That's our bread and butter.
So I think after a very sort of long dark period in the industry where we've seen a pretty tough volume situation and a pretty low pricing environment I think the trends are that we're coming out of this thing and we've got some real trends sequentially to be happy with and celebrate.
And we've got to pace ourselves because I don't things are going to come back quickly we just want it to come back steadily.
And I think that's what's going to happen.
Next question Alex Ovshey Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First can you talk about how the business is trending so far in April and any notable tidbits to highlight for us thus far in April? Yes Alex we're kind of trying to stick to Q1.
And talk about what we've done in the quarter and again be consistent with our practice of reiterating our guidance for the full year.
We think as I just got done saying with -- to Michael the trends are good.
We think they're sustainable and we're on track to meet our guidance and have a good year.
So I think you can read between all that and kind of come to your own conclusion.
Research Division</strong> All right that's all right.
And then on the commodity side do you have any incremental insight on OCC pricing recycled paper pricing and thoughts on the Green Fence initiative and the implications from that on the commodity price environment? Well as far as operation Green Fence I think what we've tried to do there is work with our various buyers so that they can conduct inspections in the U.S.
so -- that doesn't get held up at port.
But there is a bit of a bottleneck.
It's hard to forecast as to exactly how that will impact OCC pricing during the course of the full year.
But I would tell you we're doing whatever we can to let's call it expedite the shipment of the materials which we're sending to the export markets.
If you just look at the blended OCC price during the first quarter it was trending up slightly month-to-month averaged about $122 for the full quarter.
So I think it's a good pricing environment for OCC.
But yes we're not really at the type of levels we saw in 2010 or for the first few quarters of 2011.
But it's an improving market but we'll just continue to work with our buyers to minimize some of the delays with operation Green Fence.
Research Division</strong> And just one more quick question did you guys tell us what your C&amp;D volume to landfill was in the quarter? What that change was? It was down slightly in the year-over-year kind of mid-single digits.
Right and the reason for the variance was we had 2 significant C&amp;D landfill jobs in the first quarter of 2012 that obviously didn't occur.
So really most of the negative variance was the comp related to those 2 jobs.
Next question Stewart Scharf S&amp;P Capital.
Can you talk a little bit about where you are with shale waste? Well sure.
We're in the solid waste landfill business and so we do accept material E&amp;P drilling mud et cetera as part of our special waste stream in the landfills that are situated in and around where that drilling activity is occurring.
And our E&amp;P business if you will is really related just to that activity alone.
We don't have other site services along that business like other companies in our space have.
So on a year-over-year comp basis that business relatively flat for us consistent but flat.
Okay.
And now regarding your guidance you kept it the same.
First quarter was strong you're looking for well-controlled costs and sequential growth and pick-up in volume are you being just a little conservative at this point or do you think that you might be closer to the high-end? No just as I said we're reiterating our guidance and it's 1 quarter in.
Our Q2s and Q3 are the strongest quarters of the year.
So as I said previously as we start to see what seasonality does for us in the months of May and June we'll be able to tell a little bit more in July.
But we feel good about the trends we feel really good about the conditions we're seeing in the markets.
We feel good about what our people are doing to move the business forward and we'll talk more about where we think we're going to be at the end of June when we talk to you in July.
Barbara Noverini Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about the recycling rebate COGS coming down.
Is this mainly a function of the commodity values themselves being lower recently? Or have you also been able to negotiate more favorable terms with your customers as contracts come up for renewal? I'd assume that as you've grown recycling capability over time you've also learned about the most optimal way to structure these arrangements? Yes.
It's mostly just what you said it's the rates adjusting.
We -- as we get size as we get scale we get a little better at running the business but we already have some pretty good contractual arrangements with selling the material to the right end markets.
We've got a pretty good core competency here and in doing that.
So it's just really mostly related to the rates going up and down.
Jeff Osborne Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions from my end.
I was just wondering in the past call or 2 you've talked about the potential privatization of municipal landfills and taking those over.
Just given the challenging municipal backdrop was that a part of any of the M&amp;A you did this quarter or something that's still on the potential radar for you folks? It's on our radar.
We are focusing on it.
We recently announced the Flint Michigan contract that we privatized -- or that the city chose to outsource.
So we announced that earlier in the year I think February.
So we're going to continue to look at that.
We do believe that again the general fund in many cities is under duress and the same situation there that's creating pricing pressure for us is also creating some opportunity for us to talk to cities about the possibility and the opportunity frankly to outsource that service to us.
So we're going to continue to focus on it.
As I've said in the past we've got a pipeline of opportunity there but these are very long sales cycles and they're very complex sales and they're very sort of political in nature.
So it takes a while to get that done.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understand.
And then 2 other quick ones here.
Is there kind of a magic price of natural gas in your mind where you would slow down or stop altogether your CNG conversion? Or are you just committed to it despite some of the higher prices that we've seen in recent months? Well yes I'll let Ed talk a little bit more about the specifics but we would -- we believe that right now it's a very economical alternative for us as well being good for the environment.
But to stop altogether that would be a pretty dramatic change in I think the pricing situation there.
So Ed why don't you give us some color on that? Sure.
If you kind of look at what we're paying for natural gas versus diesel today and looking at our actual performance in the first quarter what we're benefiting today on the CNG conversion is a gallon cost differential of $2.13.
And that benefit of $2.13 cost savings does not include the $0.50 per gallon tax credit which we'll receive in 2013.
Now that was a one-time item as far as the tax credit.
So obviously we look at that separately and don't include it in the net cost differential between diesel and CNG.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you Ed.
And then the last question just bigger picture with the discipline that the industry has had over the past 2 to 3 quarters on the pricing front and with volumes starting to improve is churn getting better worse how do we think about that for maybe either yourselves or your perception of the industry would be helpful? Well a couple of things just definition all right? When we talk about churn we're talking about the difference between what we sell a new unit of service at versus what we lose when we lose a customer what is that price per unit of service? So that churn that difference in price is pretty consistent pretty flat okay? We talk about defection that's a separate matter.
That's how much business we lose and that's pretty flat and that's about 7%.
So it's about 7% of our business we lose on an annual basis.
A little more than half of that is competitive and some of that is structural call it bankruptcies.
It's been a pretty consistent number for us for several years.
We think overall the business is stable.
But as I said before it's always been a competitive business it always will be it's a very local business in that way.
But as organic growth improves we think all competitors just feel better about their business and become sort of less or more rational if you will in their practices.
And we think customers frankly just are less sensitive to an extra percent of price.
So we think just the overall improving economy is going to drive that for us.
[Operator Instructions] Next question Joe Box KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the CapEx front.
I know you said earlier that it came in line with expectations.
But with it being down year-over-year can you maybe give us a flavor of where you cut back and how we should think about it trending over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
We really haven't cut back.
I mean it's -- the only thing that I think is different this year over last year is we've reduced our overall spending in a recycling development and that is because it's a little bit lumpy.
We did some bigger projects last year in total than we did this year.
So we're doing the same sort of number of projects last year's were bigger.
And we said we're going to spend -- or we're going to do 3 to 5 markets per year as far as our infrastructure build-out or enhancements in recycling.
We've stayed true to that we're going to continue to do it.
Again as you can see -- or as you can understand it's a little bit lumpy.
As far as truck spending it's very consistent.
We've got a very young fleet.
We replace a very consistent number of trucks every year.
About 30% of our total CapEx goes to sell [ph] development.
We've got to dig those landfills to fill them up and so that's pretty consistent.
We manage our CapEx generally in line with about 10% of our revenues and we've historically done that as I -- consistently as far back as I can remember.
So I don't see that really changing much.
And Joe just to reiterate the guidance the net CapEx which is gross CapEx of $860 million less $25 million of proceeds from asset sales that number is $835 million.
The guidance for net CapEx for the full year is $835 million and we did spend $214 million in Q1.
So I would say we're just simply tracking right on our plan with almost exactly 25% of the spend occurring in Q1.
Yes and Joe sometimes there are timing differences with when we get the trucks in or when -- depending on when contracts start.
So that ebbs and flows a little bit.
But we're really right where we thought we'd be.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
That's helpful.
And then Don you mentioned earlier that you guys are out doing all you can to basically drive pricing.
One of your peers is out basically looking to introduce a regulation fee and some other fees out there to maintain the price cost breakdown.
Can you just give us some historical context.
When a waste player comes out and introduces a one-time true-up fee is that something that typically other peers come out and follow suit with or is it more of a one-off thing? Okay here's what I would say Joe we are constantly reviewing our costs constantly reviewing the market and looking to recover cost increases through pricing.
So we've recently reviewed our fee recovery fee and made sure that that made sense for the company and was fair to our customers.
We think it's the right amount for us today.
We from time to time look at our environmental fees and look at what it takes to run these landfills.
A number of years ago the EPA passed some legislation that drove our air quality testing cost of about $3 million and we chose to pass it along to our customers through an environmental fee.
So that's how we look at our business.
This is a very capital-intensive business.
These landfills are very very expensive to own and to operate and they're long-life assets with lots of liability.
And we've always got to make sure that we're getting the right price for those assets and we look at that on an ongoing basis really year in and year out.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Just a housekeeping item for you then.
If you look at the repurchase versus the option issuance this quarter it looks like it was about a push.
Should we think about the buyback having more of an effect in the share count in the coming quarters? How should we think about that? Well obviously Joe we have a plan for share repurchase this year.
Coming into the year we had about $325 million.
Obviously we used probably about 1/4 of that in Q1.
So again we're tracking right on plan with the use of cash for repurchase.
When you talk about option dilution that's a little bit hard to forecast and so we really don't have that in the number.
There was some option exercise in Q1 that did impact the share count which we did offset with share repurchase.
But I don't think you can really forecast option exercise during the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> I mean no commentary on how that could trend directionally? No.
Because again we don't really forecast the -- that's an individual decision as to when to do that.
That's all the time we do have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence in creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Okay thank you.
That concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Glenn Culpepper CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thank you Holly.
Welcome good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; and Glenn Culpepper our CFO are joining me as we discuss our second quarter 2013 performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is July 25 2013.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available at Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services' Second Quarter 2013 Results.
I am pleased with our performance which continues to reflect an improvement in business conditions.
Revenues increased 2.5% compared to the prior year which includes volume growth of 0.9%.
Both average yield and volume improved sequentially and we remain well positioned to take advantage of an improving economy.
Second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.43 which includes $0.03 of legal charges for various matters.
Excluding legal charges adjusted EPS would have been $0.46 which was in line with our expectations.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $312 million.
We remain on track to achieve our full year guidance.
Q2 average yield was 1.3%.
This represents the fourth straight quarter of improvement.
Core price defined as price increases less rollbacks was 3.1% in the second quarter.
Q2 volumes were positive 0.9%.
This represents a sequential improvement of 140 basis points.
We expect to continue to see positive volumes in the second half of 2013.
Construction activity continues to improve.
Temporary roll-off hauls were up 4.7% over the prior year and increased in most of our markets.
As many of you know the roll-off business tends to have a lower incremental margin.
Operating density resides in the commercial and landfill lines of business due to the higher level of fixed costs but volume in these lines of business tends to lag.
We remain encouraged by recent activity in the roll-off business since it has historically led to a broader volume growth.
Q2 recycling facility tons increased approximately 4% over the prior year.
We completed an upgrade to a single-stream recycling facility in Ohio and completed a new single-stream facility in the Dallas-Fort Worth market.
Combined these new facilities will add approximately 95 000 annual tons.
The year-to-date investment in acquisitions was approximately $33 million.
These transactions consist of tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets.
We anticipate completing our goal of investing $100 million by the end of the year.
Year-to-date we returned approximately $305 million to our stockholders through share repurchase and dividends.
We repurchased 4.1 million shares for $135 million and have $189 million remaining on our share repurchase authorization which we expect to complete in 2013.
In summary the base business performed well and we have now turned the corner on volumes.
Our second quarter results put us right where we thought we would be and we remain on track to achieve our full year adjusted EPS and free cash flow guidance.
Glenn and Ed will now discuss our financial performance.
Glenn? Thanks Don.
Second quarter adjusted EPS of $0.43 excludes an $0.18 environmental charge for increased costs to remediate our closed Bridgeton Landfill in Missouri.
The charge primarily relates to increased costs to pump and dispose of leachate which will be spent over the next several years.
We are on track to complete the remediation plan.
Adjusted EPS also excludes a $0.10 charge for negotiation and withdrawal costs related to the Central States Pension Fund that were completed during the second quarter.
Second quarter 2013 revenue was approximately $2.1 billion an increase of $51 million from the prior year.
This 2.5% increase in revenue includes acquisitions of 0.4% and reflects the following 3 components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First pricing.
We had an average yield growth of 1.3% with positive yield in all lines of business.
Average yield increased 10 basis points sequentially from 1.2% in the first quarter of 2013.
This level of pricing was in line with our expectations for the second quarter and we remain comfortable with our full year guidance of 1% to 1.5%.
We conformed the terms used to describe pricing components to be consistent with other industry participants.
What we previously called core price is now referred to as average yield.
Average yield represents the year-over-year change in per unit prices expressed as a percentage.
Our calculation methodology has not changed.
Additionally we changed the term net price-to-customer to core price.
Core price represents price increases to customers and fees excluding fuel recovery net of price decreases to retain customers.
Again our calculation methodology has not changed.
Core price in the second quarter was 3.1%.
In addition fuel recovery fees increased 0.2%.
Most of the change relates to an increase in the rate charge to recover fuel costs which went into effect in late Q4 2012.
Second Q2 volumes increased 0.9% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive 1% primarily due to increases in industrial volumes.
Growth in the industrial line of business was driven by temporary hauls which were up 4.7% over the prior year.
Growth in collection volumes was partially offset by a decline in post collection volumes of 0.6%.
The decline is mostly due to lower levels of special waste at our landfills.
Post collection volume performance improved 420 basis points from Q1.
Third a decrease in commodity sales resulted in a 0.3% decrease in revenue.
Commodity prices decreased approximately 11% to an average of $110 per ton in the second quarter from $123 per ton in the prior quarter.
This represents the average price for all commodity types for all regions.
Second quarter recycling facility commodity volume of 554 000 tons was up 4% from the prior year.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $109 per ton.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS which includes the impact on our recycling facility and collection businesses.
Now I will discuss year-over-year margin.
Second quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 27.6% compared to 30.3% in the prior year a decrease of 270 basis points.
Most of the change relates to other SG&amp;A expenses which increased 140 basis points.
We recorded $17 million of legal charges for various matters in the second quarter versus a $12 million reduction in expense in the prior year.
The year-over-year variance in expense was approximately $29 million.
The remaining change in margin relates to disposal labor and maintenance expenses which increased 130 basis points combined.
As Don mentioned volume growth was concentrated in the roll-off line of business which has the highest level of variable costs.
These costs are impacted by changes in volume since they are direct expenses of providing service to the customer.
Additionally revenue mix impacted these costs as a percentage of revenue since collection volumes increased while post-collection volumes and commodity revenues both decreased.
The year-over-year impact of all other cost line items which are listed in our 8-K filing net to 0.
I will comment on some of the line items which include first fuel.
The 30-basis-point improvement primarily relates to a higher percentage of natural gas trucks in our fleet.
Currently about 10% of our fleet runs on natural gas.
We will continue to replace diesel trucks with natural gas trucks where appropriate and as part of our normal truck replacement cycle.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $3.88 in the second quarter of 2013 from $3.95 in the prior year a decrease of approximately 2%.
Current average diesel price is approximately $3.90 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.20 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which includes the impact of our fuel recovery fees and fuel hedges.
Next operating expenses.
The 30-basis-point increase in expense primarily relates to favorable items in the prior year.
Other operating expense as a percentage of revenue was 3.5% in the second quarter and was consistent with our expectations.
Finally SG&amp;A expenses.
SG&amp;A was 10.8% of revenue an increase of 120 basis points compared to the prior year.
As I previously mentioned this is due to a year-over-year change in the amount of legal expenses.
Excluding incremental legal charges in the current quarter SG&amp;A expense was 10% of revenue which was consistent with our expectations.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.2% in the second quarter of 2013 versus 11.4% in the prior year.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Glenn.
Second quarter 2013 interest expense was $90 million which included $12 million of noncash amortization.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $312 million in line with our expectations.
Adjusted free cash flow included net capital expenditures of $469 million or 56% of our projected full year spend.
Cash flow can vary quarter to quarter based on the timing of capital expenditures and working capital.
As Don mentioned we remain comfortable with our original full year adjusted free cash flow guidance of $675 million to $700 million even with higher-than-anticipated environmental expenditures.
We now expect to receive cash tax refunds from prior years which essentially offsets the higher spending for environmental remediation.
We still expect to spend approximately $835 million for net capital expenditures in 2013.
Now I will discuss the balance sheet.
At June 30 our accounts receivable balance was $877 million and our days outstanding was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at June 30 and excess availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.5 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
I'm proud of the Republic team and how we are executing our strategy.
We are making smart investments in accretive acquisitions.
We are appropriately developing our recycling infrastructure.
We're systematically converting to automated and natural gas-fueled vehicles.
We are maintaining our focus on multi-year initiatives designed to reduce costs and improve productivity.
And we are growing units of service and reporting positive volume growth.
Our base business performance highlighted by improving yield and volume growth gives us confidence in our ability to generate strong free cash flow.
This enabled us to increase our dividend approximately 11% and continues our track record of efficiently and predictably returning cash to stockholders.
We are focused on continually improving our business to generate consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
And finally we remain committed to an efficient capital structure maintaining our investment grade rating and increasing cash returns to our stockholders.
At this time operator I would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on guidance.
Historically you guys have raised guidance in July.
It seems like the fundamentals are turning and getting better versus when you originally guided.
Is it fair to say that you guys are keeping guidance the same because of the higher litigation costs in SG&amp;A that you guys didn't flag as sort of non-recurring? Well Hamzah this is Don.
I would say historically we've updated guidance at this point in the year.
And we are seeing some good signs in the business.
We talked about the positive trends in volume and the sequential improvement in pricing.
We also have -- the parts of the business that we're seeing growth in are in areas of construction.
We're not necessarily seeing the kind of growth yet in service increases or growth in our commercial lines of business that give us more margin expansion.
So at this time we think our guidance is right on.
And we'll take you through the year and we'll talk more about what we see after Q3.
Research Division</strong> That's fair enough.
And just a follow-up on volume.
Could you maybe talk about seasonality and whether you saw above-normal seasonality? I realize there maybe some noise because of the weather.
But maybe if you could address sort of underlying seasonality that you're seeing in your business.
We saw what we would call normal seasonality this year.
The only thing that we're -- we did see a little wet weather which led to some disposal weights being a little bit higher.
And of course we had a little bit of cleanup volume coming through from the tornado cleanup in Oklahoma City.
But other than that we would tell you that seasonality was normal for us this year.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Don I still don't understand.
Maybe you can walk us through it or parcel it out how EBITDA margin can be down 270 basis points year-over-year? And I see some of the cost of operation items that look a little and pardon the expression a little inflated on a comp basis when you look at it year-over-year meaning percentage of revenue specifically like maintenance and labor and related benefits but can you just help us through that? Yes so let me give you my view of it.
So you heard Glenn describe the legal charge right? That was the biggest single piece of that change and that's -- let's call that a non-recurring item.
We've had little more labor and maintenance than maybe we would have expected.
And the big maintenance initiative is actually working very well.
It's taken us a little bit longer to move through the system and get the traction we're hoping for but we're still very positive on that.
So it's something that we'll -- we think we'll overcome certainly in the next year.
Part of the margin frankly still the fact that we're still not -- while price is sequentially improving we're still not getting price in exceedance of normal inflation.
So we like the fact that price is on the move upward but we're going to have to do a little more pricing.
We're going to have to get a little more help from the economy to get that going in the right direction.
But we're on the right track and again directionally we're pretty pleased with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I may try the 270 I can probably attribute 140 of that to the legal charge.
That's just $30 million for revenue.
That's right.
So what you have left kind of split that between labor and maintenance and then one other thing is disposal.
So one of the things that's happening is that we're seeing an increase in our container weights and -- but we haven't seen that increase in container weights convert yet to service increases.
So we probably described this to you before but as in our commercial small container business as flat-rate customers begin to throw out more trash they begin to fill the container up more and we end up hauling that extra trash for the same fixed revenue per month and we don't get to charge for that until we get that extra service increase out of it.
So our service increases right now are pretty flat.
So one of the steps we would hope to see in this improving economy is just that we'd like to see some service increases.
The other thing is the growth that we're getting in the business is not coming in the parts of our business that has the benefit from density or the high-fixed cost as I said in my comments.
It's coming in the area of the roll-off business which doesn't -- which has a high variable cost.
And it's coming in some new contracts new residential contracts but not contracts that lay over the top of our existing business.
So as we see growth in our footprint where we build more density then we'll see that margin improve from that as well.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up and I appreciate that color.
It was helpful Don.
On the pricing side absent the index-based business can you shed some insight on market intelligence on pricing within competitive markets? Well let me just say this.
We still think the market is a rational market.
We're out there every month with our price initiative in and around what we used to call RPM that ratable process we use the 12 equal buckets as we've described before.
Our pricing efforts continue as far as things like customer defection or churn rates things that we measure those are very consistent with past periods.
So we're not seeing any negative change there but we're not maybe seeing enough positive change to reflect in even higher prices.
But as I would -- but as I told you all along we -- our belief is that as the economy improves as volumes improve that pricing environment is going to improve right along with it.
Next is from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you expound a little bit on the trends you're seeing at the landfill? Trends with volume? Research Division</strong> With regard to volumes yes.
Well first we've had the first quarter of positive MSW volume growth at our landfills since I think 2008.
Okay? So that's a pretty big deal.
It's the first quarter.
It's been an improving trend over the last 3 quarters so -- but the first quarter we've gone positive.
So C&amp;D was a good month for us.
A portion of that C&amp;D volume came from as I said the Oklahoma tornado cleanups but even that we've seen a sequential improvement every quarter for the past 3 quarters in our C&amp;D volumes.
And I guess we're seeing that in our roll-off business as well.
Pricing is reasonable at the landfill.
We have not seen any real movement in landfill prices yet.
We're hopeful that as volumes continue to increase there's a little more opportunity to drive price through the disposal assets.
One of the things that I'm sure you know over these last several years we've been very diligent with pricing correctly for these landfills.
We've over that time frame frankly lost a lot of MSW volume what we call open market volume to competitive landfills.
But our hope would be that -- so we have very little of that business left today in the open market side of MSW in the landfill business.
But we would hope that as again volumes return improve that there could be some pricing upside there for us in the latter half of this year maybe certainly by next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a bigger picture here longer term and where do you think that -- you've said that you now kind of turned the corner on volumes.
Where do you think EBITDA margins can go as the volume cycle kind of plays out? All right.
So it gets -- it's really kind of the same old story.
Think about our business inflation our cost inflation being somewhere call it 2% to 2.5%.
We may get 50 basis points a year out of productivity and initiatives around efficiency.
And then we're left with 2% net inflation.
We've got to get pricing exceeding inflation on a regular basis.
We're going to need some help from CPI.
We need to see CPI regulate in some sort of normal fashion and then that the open market pricing will follow.
And in a normal environment when we see household formation occurring business formation occurring on top of that building more units into our density we think we'll get back over 30% but it's going to require that pricing exceeding inflation to do that and it's going to require an improving economy to help us give a push.
So we're doing everything we can to appropriately price our business and grow the business intelligently but we're going to need a little more help from the economy to get back there.
Joe Box with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Don I appreciate the comments earlier on price not outpacing inflation and some of the comments on fixed revenue customers.
But it seems like things haven't really changed that much sequentially to where you'd actually see that much costs flow through operations.
I'm just curious can you give us a bit more color on some of the bigger cost of operations buckets like labor and maintenance? Do you see them getting better leverage in the back half? Or is it possible that they continue to grow at a pace that exceeds sales growth? No I don't think that.
I mean again as I said also one of the comments I made is where we're getting some of the volume growth it's not really happening -- again when I talk about on top our density we're not seeing the growth in our commercial small container business within our route structure.
We saw some of the growth come in through some large commercial contracts basically franchise contracts that required new trucks and new routes not new customers on top of our current route base.
So that's going to come at a normal or -- at a normal margin not an expanded margin because of the density.
Roll-off growth is really where we're seeing the bulk of our revenue our volume growth and again that's a lower-margin business.
So we've got to see that growth happen on a more broad-based way across all lines of business.
And then we'll get that margin going back in the right direction.
Maintenance has been a little bit of a headwind for us all year.
Part of that is due to our One Fleet initiative.
We'll anniversary that sometime next year and then it'll start to go positive for us.
We've had a few little odds and ends kind of sneak up on us in costs things like the cost related to the Green Fence initiative.
So we're going to spend a couple million dollars a year more in cost -- or a couple of million dollars this quarter in cost to deal with that.
So we're going to find a way to pass that back along in some kind of a price initiative with our customers our recycling customers.
So we're dealing with those things.
I think again the base business is strong evidenced by the fact that we're raising our dividend.
We got a lot of confidence in the cash flow.
And as we get the economy working back for us even a little stronger than it has we'll get the margin back to 30%.
And if you net some of this stuff out just kind of one-timer stuff we're still 29% EBITDA margin we think by the end of the year.
The next comes from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I think -- not to beat the dead horse but I think it's still breathing a little bit.
So I understand all the comments about the mix affecting the margin.
EBITDA dollars though are down year-over-year after adjusting for the legal charge.
So I'm trying to figure out since it sounds like MSW is growing and C&amp;D at the landfills is growing and you had up -- I'm trying to figure out what's actually down.
Is it special waste? So it was -- was there some relatively high-margin special waste last year that isn't there this year and that's what's driving EBITDA dollars down? Yes yes.
Special waste is still not really a bright spot for us.
We're down year-over-year in special waste volume.
While we're up in C&amp;D and MSW the landfill special waste is down.
So yes a lot of this Corey is just mix.
And I know that's an easy word to use to describe it but there's a lot -- been a lot of small moving pieces in a big business and a lot of it just is mix.
And EBITDA dollars are only down only slightly.
So it's as I'm just telling you we have confidence in the guidance confidence in the 29% adjusted EBITDA margin that we talked about and getting some of these one-timers behind us.
Research Division</strong> And I generally don't like asking company about another but the since there's this sort of this pronounced difference on one of your competitors' calls earlier this week there was a lot of talk about strength at the landfill and about how there's a lag between strength at the landfill and when they start to see that at the collection side.
It sounds like it's going kind of in reverse for you.
Can you talk about conceptually just given past cycles what you expect which of those 2 lags the other? Yes I really can't comment on what's going on in the other company's business.
I would tell you a couple of things.
Their business mix their geography is different than ours.
Their percentage of third-party volume versus internal volume is going to be different than ours so that's -- I really don't know enough about their business to comment.
Our business doesn't move very quickly.
It moves fairly slowly.
So we wouldn't expect to see very large increases in volumes or prices over a one quarter or year-over-year basis.
So for us we still believe that again the business overall grows with household formation that turns into business formation.
We think it starts in construction volumes coming back.
We think it then becomes an issue with business formation and new units of service being added by new small businesses going coming into our route base and adding that small container business.
We think it's consumer spending increases and more trash is created in our small container business we'll see service increases.
And all that happening sort of within our dense footprint which gives us some margin leverage.
Again we think as volume returns pricing gets a little bit easier from there.
So that's how we think the progression occurs.
That's frankly how it's occurred for us historically.
If their business model is that much different then it may be different for them but I really can't comment on that.
And then of course as I've said in my earlier comments we've been very persistent with landfill pricing in the open market over the last several years.
We've because of that lost a fair amount of open market volume at our landfills those are -- when I say open market call it competitive volume from other waste haulers who've chosen to take their waste to another landfill that we have a very small portion of that now business made up of our landfill volume in total.
And so we're not going to get the benefit of any volume growth that might come through competitive volume that way and maybe another competitor might.
So somebody's got that volume it's not -- it's no longer in our landfill.
So all those mixes are different Corey.
So we don't spend a lot of time worrying about how they're going to grow the business as much as we worry about how we're going to grow ours.
Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> So just so -- I get it all right.
So I understand that the mix change and it's higher variable cost and that drives up labor disposal and your subcontractor.
Help me understand what you're doing to get your hands around the 10% increase in maintenance though.
I'm still struggling with that a little.
But I get the One Maintenance program the One Fleet program but 10% seems a lot.
Well there's a number of things there.
One the fleet is -- the fleet is changing.
The fleet is changing through automation.
The fleet is changing with CNG.
Even clean diesel engines compared to the old trucks before that the clean diesel engines came on all those trucks are really frankly a lot more costly to maintain.
So we are seeing some maintenance increases even where One Fleet initiative is not underway.
The One Fleet initiative is driving up cost in the business but we think it's going to anniversary and start to come down as we get through the second -- start to get into the second half of the fleet next year.
So we are seeing benefits from One Fleet.
The visions [ph] that've gone through One Fleet have experienced a 19% reduction in downtime the ones that have gone through it at the beginning -- at the beginning waves.
The fleet -- the local fleets that have gone through it recently haven't started to see any benefit yet.
They're still spending money.
The fleets that have gone through it sort of in the intermediate the second or third wave they're starting to see some benefit today.
So this is just a matter of working through the fleet in its entirety getting that culture built into our business getting the durability in the fleet processes and then getting that benefit in reduction of downtime reduction in unscheduled maintenance better service standards less -- fewer missed pickups better driver morale blah blah blah and hopefully even more opportunity to please the customer and have the customer even willing to pay us a little bit more for the service over time.
So that's our hope and that's frankly our strong belief.
And even though this thing has cost us a little bit more we are more determined and more convinced it's the right thing to do than ever before.
So we're going to see the benefits accrue in One Fleet and then maintenance starting next year.
And we're determined to make the fleet at Republic Services a world-class fleet in the process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you made a comment about container weights which I think is important that on the commercial business you're clearly seeing an uptick.
Can you characterize that and as well as that positive MSW? What was the nature of the percent change because -- and then -- and in light of that what's your feeling about the service integral upgrades either the extra day or the bigger container? Where -- how far out is that quarter 2? Yes well maybe it's a quarter 2.
2% is the increase in container weights.
So we are very watchful now for that increase in service frequency.
And we're talking to our drivers and front-line people to be on the lookout for that.
And we know which customers at some point in the recent history went from 4 days a week to 3 days a week.
And we're hopeful that at some point we'll get them back to 4 days a week.
That's when we can charge for the additional service.
In the meantime we charge for garbage on the ground or garbage over the top and those kinds of things and -- so a 2% container weight increase is a good thing.
It's the first time we've actually seen this kind of a move in a long time.
Up until now and every quarter we get a question of something like this and we keep saying "Well it's flat.
It's bumping across the bottom.
No change no change." Well we've got a change here that we're watching pretty closely now.
We're excited about that turning into service increases and ultimately then again more revenue within our density.
And that's where again we get the benefit.
In the meantime it costs you money.
But you're not able to charge any more for those additional pounds in the container again until you have -- you get to add that service day.
So it's something we'll talk with you more about next quarter as it develops.
And hopefully it's something that we see developing quarter-by-quarter after this as this economy slowly crawls back.
The next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the volume side pretty good performance.
It's almost up 1%.
Even though I believe you had a couple of difficult comparisons with just some lost business that you still haven't lapped have you...
I think we've lagged it all -- or lapped it all just about.
Right.
The large natural contract we lost anniversary-ed on May 1.
And then the last of the disposal contracts anniversary-ed on June 30.
All right so I stand corrected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I was just wondering if you were to adjust for that what sort of the true underlying run rate for volume because clearly it should be a little bit higher than 0.9%? Yes Alex it probably would've been 1% plus as far as volumes.
Maybe somewhere between 1% and 1.2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question are you guys seeing the weather impacted volumes for you? I mean in certain parts of the country we certainly had some wet/unseasonably colder weather for the spring.
Do you think that had any impact on the business? Yes.
We haven't talked about weather other than we obviously had some rain that led to some increased disposal cost also some disposal revenue at the same time.
But maybe a little bit but probably not enough to talk about on the call.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
So it seems like a wash.
And then just last question any thoughts on how OCC prices trend through the balance of the year? Well we if we look at OCC pricing right now it's about -- well our total commodities in all regions are $109 a ton.
Seasonally we probably just passed or we're in the process of passing kind of peak OCC pricing.
This is when packaging or box manufacturers need to get product for the year-end holiday season.
So it's -- what we do as as far as planning for commodities we assume it's going to be flat for the full year.
When we gave our guidance back in February we assumed commodities would be $112 a ton all commodities all regions.
And we've kind of bumped around that number for most of the year.
So I guess our expectation is built into the guidance or assuming flat commodities for the rest of the year.
Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the environmental accruals you've had I guess in the last 3 quarters on the landfill side.
And I think you mentioned you're spending some this year on it.
Is a lot of that spending this year or next year or how would you kind of think about that? A good piece of it Bill is this year and next year as we put in a water treatment plant on-site.
But overall these are costs that will be incurred over the next 35 years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a lot of it is spread out.
And then Don you mentioned special waste has been soft.
Do you see any better bidding activity in the second half? Or how would you characterize that? Well we're not -- we're only slightly into the second half so we're always hopeful but it's been fairly competitive out there for special waste.
So we'd like to think that as -- again as economy improves behavior improves with it customer sentiment improves along with that and with people starting to get maybe a little more confidence in the economy and pricing power will persist.
So we'll keep doing what we do and we'll watch closely to see what our competitors do in local markets and we'll see as the second half unfolds.
Next comes from Jeff Osborne with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand in further detail the roll-off side and if you can kind of take a guesstimate on what the impact was to the EBITDA margins with the mix shift.
I understand all the rationale but I think you've added correctly that that's kind of a low 20s EBITDA business and as that flow through that was the impact there relative to some of the other weaknesses on the higher profitability pieces? Yes this is Don.
You're probably right it's sort of low 20 margin kind of a C&amp;D business.
Remember again this is sort of point-to-point service.
We don't get that benefit of productivity gains and density gains in that business.
And then looking -- and the rest of it is just a lot of mix.
So again we're very happy to have that volume.
And we're hoping that volume turns into again a broader recovery in the other lines of business that will give us that margin expansion.
As new business comes in on top of our normal business call it the small container part of our world that's going to come in at a higher margin and we start to see more landfill volume.
We could see a blended sort of 40% margin on that blended business coming back.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understand.
And just the last point on the roll-off side any comments on geographically where you're seeing the strength or what the cadence was through the quarter factoring out the Oklahoma City issue? Yes we really saw it everywhere.
We saw C&amp;D temp [ph] calls pick up across all 3 of our regions pretty consistently.
So again that's -- we would view that as good news as being a broader-based recovery in the quarter.
Next question comes from Barbara Noverini with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> So Q2 recycling volumes are up 4%.
How much of this growth would you say is organic? So customers recycling more per stop than last year that kind of thing versus the product of capacity you might have added in the quarter and maybe even volumes you acquired in the quarter? Yes most of that is driven from the new recycling facilities we brought online.
So I would say it's -- and then we've seen this consistently as we put in new facilities we've driven more volume to recycling as a result of that.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you Holly.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence in creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today everyone and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Your hosts for today's call are Don Slager President and CEO; Glenn Culpepper CFO; and Ed Lang Republic's Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Lisa.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; Glenn Culpepper our CFO and Brian DelGhiaccio Vice President of Investor Relations are joining me as we discuss our third quarter 2013 performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is October 31 2013.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
We recognize that many of you would like to be with your families this evening and we really appreciate you joining our call today.
We will do our best to get you home on time so let's begin.
Our third quarter performance demonstrates our ability to execute our plans and profitably grow our business.
Revenues increased approximately 6% led by strong volume growth including higher-margin special waste streams.
Our EBITDA margin performance of 29.5% reflects a sequential improvement from the first half of the year consistent with the expectations we communicated on our last earnings call.
I will now discuss some financial and operational highlights.
Third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.55.
These results include $0.03 of favorable tax items and $0.02 of reduced environmental costs.
Including these items we expect to achieve the high end of our full year EPS guidance.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $469 million.
We remain on track to achieve our full year guidance range of $675 million to $700 million.
Core price in the third quarter was 3.4% and our average yield was 1.3%.
Average yield was consistent with the second quarter even with a sequential step down in CPI-based pricing.
We experienced better price contributions from the open market to offset the CPI headwind.
Q3 volumes increased 2.2%.
If you include the extra workday total volumes were up 2.7%.
The key drivers of volume growth were C&amp;D roll-off national accounts and landfill special waste.
Construction activity continues to improve.
Temporary roll-off hauls increased 7.4% over the prior year which reflects the sustained recovery in housing construction.
The increase in activity was broad-based with virtually all of our areas reporting growth in temporary hauls per day.
During the quarter we introduced expanded service offerings to certain National Accounts customers to meet their waste stream needs.
We often engage third-party providers to service this work so it tends to be lower-margin business but has very limited capital requirements.
Growth in National Accounts represented about 20% of our volume increase in the quarter.
Landfill special waste volumes were up 5.4% over the prior year which help improved our margin performance.
On prior calls we discussed special waste volumes that were deferred.
We are now seeing these event-driven jobs get funded and special waste volumes return to our original expectations.
Landfill MSW is down less than 1%.
It is important to note that landfill MSW volume tends to track closely with changes in collection volumes.
Q3 recycling facility tons per day increased 7.4% over the prior year.
Most of the increase is related to recycling facilities that we have been -- that we've added or upgraded over the last 3 quarters.
The year-to-date investment in acquisitions was approximately $60 million.
Annual revenue is approximately $45 million at a post-synergy EBITDA multiple of approximately 4.5x.
These transactions consist of tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets.
We anticipate completing our goal of investing $100 million by the end of the year.
Approximately 40% of our fleet has completed our One Fleet maintenance initiative and our maintenance cost headwind continues to abate.
We expect to have 50% of the fleet completed by mid-2014 at which point we will start realizing benefits.
During the third quarter we completed our withdrawal from the Central States Pension Fund.
This is a significant accomplishment that benefits our company and our employees.
We are happy to report that these 850 employees now participate in financially sound retirement programs.
Year-to-date we returned $469 million to our stockholders.
Dividend payments were $255 million and we repurchased 6.5 million shares for $214 million.
Our board recently approved an additional $650 million to our share repurchase authorization.
We now have approximately $760 million remaining which extends through December 2015.
In summary we delivered results in line with our expectations.
And I want to thank the entire Republic team for their hard work and execution.
Glenn and Ed will now discuss our financial performance.
Glenn? Thanks Don.
Third quarter 2013 revenue was approximately $2.2 billion an increase of $119 million from the prior year.
This 5.8% increase in revenue includes acquisitions of 60 basis points and reflects the following 3 components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First pricing.
We had an average yield growth of 1.3% with positive yield in all lines of business.
Third quarter average yield was consistent sequentially and in line with our expectations.
Core price was 3.4% up 30 basis points sequentially.
As a reminder core price is defined as price increases to customers in changes and fees excluding fuel recovery net of price decreases.
We saw an increase in open market pricing in the third quarter which was offset by CPI-based price resets.
Beginning in July price resets started using the lower CPI from 2012 of 2.1% compared to the first half of the year which was based on the higher 2011 CPI pricing of 3.2%.
Year-to-date CPI is currently running at approximately 1.5%.
Since our price reset tends to lag 12 to 18 months we will see this lower CPI in our price performance in the second half of 2014.
As a result we expect less price contribution from these contracts next year.
As a reminder 50% of our revenue has a contractually based pricing restriction and approximately 60% of those contracts have index-based price resets.
Fuel recovery fees increased 0.5%.
Most of this change relates to an increase in the rate charge to recover fuel for us [ph].
Second third quarter volumes increased 2.2% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive 1.6% primarily due to an increase in industrial volume.
Growth in the industrial line of business was driven by temporary hauls which were up 7.4% over the prior year.
Landfill volumes were positive 2.6% which includes an increase in landfill special waste of 5.4%.
Our landfill MSW volumes were down 70 basis points.
Our defection rate which reflects the annualized rate of customer turnover remained stable at approximately 7%.
In addition to the volume increase of 2.2% there was one more workday in the quarter which contributed an additional 50 basis points of revenue growth.
Third an increase in commodity sales resulted in a 0.7% increase in revenue.
The increase in commodity sales reflects both higher prices for recycled commodities and an increase in the tons sold.
Commodity prices increased approximately 8% to an average of $117 per ton in the third quarter from $108 per ton in the prior year.
This represents the average price for all commodity types across all regions.
Third quarter recycling facility commodity volume of 545 000 tons was up 7.4% from the prior year.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $119 per ton.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS which includes the impacts on our recycling facility and collection businesses.
Now I will discuss year-over-year margin.
Third quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 29.5% compared to 29.8% in the prior year a decrease of 30 basis points.
I will now discuss some specific cost categories.
Labor costs increased 30 basis points and maintenance expense increased 20 basis points.
These cost increases as a percentage of revenue continue to be impacted by volume growth in the C&amp;D collection business.
Sequentially the margin headwind on these 2 cost line items was cut in half.
This was due in part to higher levels of special waste received in the quarter which had very little incremental labor and maintenance expense.
Additionally we continue to anniversary the elevated levels of maintenance expense as we continue to implement our fleet initiative.
Second transportation and subcontract costs increased 40 basis points which relates primarily to growth in our National Accounts business and incremental special waste volume.
In the National Accounts business we employ subcontractors to perform a portion of the work.
The costs are a pass-through on these contracts.
While incremental EBITDA margin on this work can be in the low- to middle-single digit range.
This work generates additional free cash flow and has attractive returns since it has very limited capital requirements.
For special waste there is often additional third-party transportation to deliver the volumes to our landfills.
Next fuel.
The 40 basis point improvement primarily relates to a higher percentage of natural gas trucks in our fleet.
Currently about 11% of our fleet runs on natural gas.
We will continue to replace diesel trucks with natural gas vehicles where appropriate and as part of our normal truck replacement cycle.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $3.91 in the third quarter from $3.94 in the prior year a decrease of approximately 1%.
The current average diesel price is approximately $3.87 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.20 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which includes the impact of our fuel recovery fees and fuel hedges.
Landfill operating costs improved 60 basis points.
Approximately 50 basis points of the change relates to successfully permitting a new solution for a remediation project in Illinois.
As Don mentioned this provided a $0.02 EPS benefit in the quarter.
Finally SG&amp;A expense was 9.7% of revenue an increase of 20 basis points compared to the prior year.
Both periods contained adjustments to incentive compensation accruals which reduced SG&amp;A below 10%.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.2% in the third quarter of 2013 versus 10.9% in the prior year.
The prior year included a benefit related to landfill expansions.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Glenn.
Third quarter 2013 interest expense was $90 million which included $12 million of noncash amortization.
Our third quarter 2013 effective tax rate of 35.2% was favorably impacted by realizing additional federal and state credits on our 2012 tax returns.
As Don mentioned earlier this provided a $0.03 EPS benefit in the third quarter versus our expectations.
Looking forward to 2014 we expect to return to our normal statutory effective tax rate of approximately 39.5%.
Our estimated full year 2013 effective tax rate is approximately 36.5% which assumes a 39.5% rate in the fourth quarter.
The increase in tax rate creates a $0.10 EPS headwind year-over-year.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $469 million and in line with our expectations.
Adjusted free cash flow included net capital expenditures of $689 million or 83% of our projected full year spend.
Cash flow can vary quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of capital expenditures and working capital.
With the expiration of bonus depreciation at the end of 2013 we expect an increase in cash taxes next year.
We have not completed our annual planning process but we anticipate free cash flow will be relatively flat in 2014.
I will now discuss the balance sheet.
At September 30 our accounts receivable balance was $907 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at September 30 and excess availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.5 billion.
I'll now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I would like to address some topics discussed this afternoon in further detail.
Glenn discussed that CPI-based pricing will be lower in 2014.
We expect to offset this headwind with higher levels of price contribution from our open markets and improved price performance when renewing municipal contracts.
We currently anticipate that yield in 2014 will be consistent with current levels.
In order to drive better open market pricing we are improving pricing decisions made by our sales team at the point-of-sale enhancing controls for new business sales and service level transactions better aligning sales incentive programs to drive improved quality of revenue identifying customer segments and focusing on those willing to pay for our higher-quality service offering and increasing fee participation rates in our cost recovery programs.
I would like to discuss current business conditions and market trends.
Business conditions continue to improve.
We will enter 2014 with positive yield and positive volume performance.
This is the first time this will occur since 2007.
Core price was 3.4% in the quarter the highest level of performance in over 2 years.
We consistently raised prices across each of our businesses.
Over the last several years our landfill MSW volumes have declined as a result of our pricing actions.
We have consistently priced our landfill assets because they are capital intensive and expensive to operate.
Our collection volume growth was concentrated in the industrial business which includes temporary roll-off.
Volumes in this business grew over 4% and yield was up over 2%.
Margin in the industrial business improved 90 basis points in the quarter.
This demonstrates our ability to achieve volume growth at higher prices.
Generally speaking there is a high correlation between collection and landfill volumes.
In our business commercial and residential volumes were up less than 1% combined and landfill MSW volumes were essentially flat.
At the same time C&amp;D volumes in the collection and landfill businesses were both up high-single digits in the quarter.
Recycling continues to grow and remains one of our core service offerings.
Our recycling business has generally performed in line with our expectations.
However we have experienced higher costs and reduced volumes as a result of Operation Green Fence.
Future investment in this line of business will be driven by customer demand willingness to pay and return on invested capital.
Our near-term plan is to focus on operating recent investments and leveraging our third-party network.
We continue to manage the controllable aspects of our business to help mitigate cost increases including automating residential routes to reduce labor costs and improve productivity; lowering our cost of fuel and reducing emission through conversion to CNG vehicles; and standardizing maintenance practices and processes to reduce costs.
Collectively we anticipate these initiatives will lower our cost structure by 75 to 100 basis points over the next 3 years.
As a result of our maintenance initiative we expect that we can effectively extend the useful life of our fleet by approximately 1 year once the majority of the vehicles have been certified.
We estimate this will reduce future capital requirements by approximately $200 million spread over a 4- to 5-year period beginning as early as 2015.
Looking to 2014.
We anticipate our normal mid- to high-single digit growth in earnings and free cash flow performance before taking into account to tax-related items that will partially offset this level of performance.
First an increasing effective tax rate which results in a $0.10 EPS headwind.
And second the exploration of bonus depreciation which reduces free cash flow by approximately $50 million.
Expected earnings growth in the business together with tighter controls on capital spending gives us confidence that we can offset the cash tax headwind from bonus depreciation in 2014.
Our long-term view of the business and strength of our assets has not changed.
We still believe that pricing levels exceed cost inflation under normal business conditions that we gain operating leverage and increased density with broad-based volume growth.
We can differentiate our service offerings through superior customer service world-class safety and employee engagement.
We can maintain our pace of tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets.
Margins can expand through cost efficiencies productivity improvements and leveraging SG&amp;A expenses.
And finally ROIC can steadily improve through earnings growth capital spending controls and investing wisely in the business.
Our team remains focused on executing our strategy to deliver consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
We are committed to an efficient capital structure maintaining our investment grade rating and increasing cash returns to our stockholders.
At this time operator I'd like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on volume.
Has your strategy changed at all in terms of going after new business now that you're seeing volumes begin to get better? Or how should we think about volume strategy now versus last year when volumes were shrinking? Has there been any change? No there really hasn't.
Let me walk you through because when you think about volume we've got to look at it through several different lenses Hamzah.
The first one is on the landfill side.
As I said in my comments we've consistently lost landfill MSW volume over the last 3 years.
So we've consistently priced those assets because of the high cost nature of those landfills and we've consistently lost volume for the last several years and so -- by frankly a substantial amount.
So we continue to price even in light of that landfill volume loss and those volumes leaving our system and going to other landfills.
On the collections side of the business we made a point a couple of years ago with the fact that there wasn't a lot of organic growth and CPI was low and so on that we weren't going to surrender our high-quality business during that time and we were going to really hold the line on our volume and we've done that.
As volume has returned again we're really only seeing organic volume growth in a couple of places and we mentioned National Accounts C&amp;D roll-off specifically and special waste has gotten better over the last quarter.
So if special waste comes in a pretty good margin as I mentioned in my comments we've seen really nice growth in the roll-off system.
And we've seen not only volume growth but we've seen pricing improvements and we've seen margin enhancement at the same time.
So we're proving that we can improve both volume and price and margin in that system with that kind of growth.
So we've been saying for a long time we think when the economy returns we're going to see it start with housing formation into construction.
At some point that's going to convert into business formation.
And hopefully we might see some change in service increases and so forth business formation in the commercial lines and we'd like to see that same performance happen.
But we consistently price our business across all lines of businesses as I've said.
Again we're not walking away from good business but I think we've demonstrated our willingness to hold the line at the landfill because of the nature of that asset.
And also we've walked away from some substantial municipal business this year and we just couldn't get down in the trenches and lower our prices as much as the competition could so we're going to see some headwind from that in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Very helpful.
And just a follow-up.
You mentioned tax.
When we think about next year's earnings you talked about price on lower CPI when we think about next year.
Anything on the cost side that we should keep in mind in terms of non-recurring or something that is different next year relative to this year? No not really.
We mentioned -- we're going to continue the major cost initiatives we talked about the automation the CNG conversion.
The maintenance initiative we've slowed that down here in the latter half of '14 -- or '13 I'm sorry.
So we haven't rolled out any new divisions on One Fleet.
We talked about that cost abating year-over-year.
We're going to go back and shore up all those divisions that have already gone through the process and get those certified.
Ultimately then we're going to see that benefit I talked about in the capital spend in our truck fleet out in '15.
But nothing other than that.
We're sticking to those projects and we think they've got good returns.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the pricing data could you talk about the benefit on the recovery if you will from open market business? I mean how much that helped maybe it was a swing of the volume because yield actually -- I mean it came in line where we were looking for but it seemed like maybe it benefited from special waste.
I just wanted to hear your thoughts on the pricing environment.
Yes.
Special waste was our -- probably our brightest spot in the quarter the -- having seen that volume come back after kind of a slow Q2.
But we did get a little more ground covered in the open market on pricing.
Keep in mind Al we've got 7% defection in our permanent commercial and permanent roll-off business in an open market.
And so as that business leaves the system we have to replace it.
And again we replaced that business to keep our volumes consistent.
And that new business comes in at a lower-than-average price.
The business that leaves the system leaves at a higher-than-average price and that's churn all right? So that's consistent.
It's not a new phenomenon.
We've seen it for many years.
It's good that it's held stable at 7%.
So we're happy about that.
Meanwhile with the slow CPI environment we've gone into that open market and we've tried to get just a little more pricing in that open market and we've been pretty successful with it.
But it's really on the margin.
So that's helped us offset this effect of low CPI and we've been in a low CPI environment now for 3 years.
And it doesn't look like we're going to have any relief from that for at least 1 or 2 years.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So if I think about the lag on CPI I think about the benefit of volume.
To me the headwind here is how you're going to over -- how you're going to compensate for the price discrepancy between cost inflation and your ability to get price.
And while you probably won't comment [ph] is the headwind here several quarters in your mind? Or how would you maybe characterize that -- framing it in that light? Well you got a couple of questions there Al.
The headwind from CPI is real.
Our true inflation net of all the productivity is a little better than that a little stronger than that.
We've got to continue to hold the line on the quality volume we have.
We've got to get a little more creative in other areas of pricing.
And I mentioned in my comments we're working on some initiatives within the sales organization to improve pricing at the point-of-sale to see if we can continue to improve fee participation.
There's a number of those things we'll continue to do in '14 to try to tweak a little more price out of the system in the open market that -- where we're not restricted based on the CPI.
So we've got our work cut out for us there.
But we've got some new tools we're putting to work.
We've made some investments in some software to expand the capability of our pricing tool.
And we think we'll get some better control and a better outcome.
Our next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Commercial sales the revenue growth year-over-year seems very healthy.
It's calculated at 4.3%.
And I'm trying to read through some of your comments Don how much of that is where you're winning new business or incrementally your defection rate or is it just price? I'm not hearing that there's much volume.
You said that basically volume was for all intent and purpose was flat to 1%.
Yes the commercial volume Michael is only about 1%.
We won some new contracts some new franchise contracts I guess that have more commercial business than them.
So that's outside of those wins just normal commercial growth coming in at about that 1% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but the 4.3% then that's a pretty healthy underlying trend there right? What I was trying to understand is are we getting service interval upgrades yet? Is that's what working through? I'm not sure where your 4.3% is coming from because it's...
Research Division</strong> Well unless I did my math wrong 659 divided by 632 is a 4.3% growth rate year-over-year.
Yes.
So -- help me out guys 1% volume.
Yes.
So Michael we've got -- the average yield in the commercial business is about 1.6%.
You have the 1% volume and then we have increases FERF as we talked about.
That makes [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So you're getting some service upgrades.
So that's a nice trend to be seeing is we're getting some service upgrades.
Yes.
We're starting to see it.
So again we're -- for a couple of quarters now in a row service increases are outweighing service decreases.
So I think that's -- it's nice to say that for the first time that we've seen that for quarters 2 straight.
So we're not declaring victory there yet because it's coming back pretty slowly.
But all those trends are kind of pointing in the right direction.
And again just like I talked about in the roll-off business and we have this trend of seeing volume come back and roll off and seeing pricing take traction and roll off as we see more organic volume in commercial and see some service increases coming back that will help drive the margin in that business for us as well in upcoming years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can ask the last person's question a little bit differently.
When do you think time-wise? Is it in years in quarters that you cover your inflation with price the reported price that you show us.
You call it yield.
When do we cover inflation? Well again let's do a little history lesson here right? If we go back 2006 and 2009 our yield exceeded our cost inflation because we had this sort of average 3.3% CPI environment okay? The last 3 years we've had an average 1.6% CPI environment and we've had to struggle doing that.
So we know that at least next year our CPI is going to be 1.5%.
So we don't see much relief coming in '14.
And we know it's this 18-month lag.
So we've got that going for us okay? So I think the strategy still works.
The approach we've taken still works.
We need to stay vigilant on these cost initiatives we've deployed so far.
We need to execute those well.
When you get anniversarying this One Fleet initiative into next year that will start to help us and -- but then it really all depends really Michael on some of the market from there right? And so what's really going on in this open market? And can we got a little more advantage there? And then it's going to happen -- it's going to matter what happens with landfill pricing.
Again we've lost landfill volume consistently every year for years.
And that landfill volume has found a cheaper home and it's going to matter to see what happens there.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you might be able to frame how we should be thinking about volume and understanding that there's a lot of variables but given that you're starting to see the service increase levels should we be thinking that as that increases you see accelerated volume growth in '13 -- in '14? Or is it more that you've got a strong special waste quarter this quarter? Last quarter you had wet volume so that we should be thinking about tough comps and maybe a slower volume growth in '14? Yes.
We're really not giving '14 guidance Corey.
We're trying to help you guys understand the exit speed here.
We've had some inflection with special waste which is positive.
Again this inflection in industrial roll-off is a very positive sign.
So that's something we can put a stake in the ground on and see continued benefit from.
It's a little too early to talk about when commercial is really going to take off for us.
This very slightly positive trend in service increases again very slightly positive and we'll see where it goes.
We still have headwinds in residential.
We've seen a lot of price pressure in residential.
We've had to take some rollbacks.
We're going to take a stronger position on those rollbacks in '14 we think but we've got still a substantial book of business that's coming for renewal.
And we've seen some real competitive behavior there.
And we've had to walk away from some business.
So that's going to cause a little drag on us.
So we're still doing our business plan.
And we're still working through all these things.
And we'll bring you the full-blown guidance in February like we always do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned some pricing initiatives you were thinking about price in different ways.
Your larger competitor talked about some stuff there thinking of or doing differently in how they're structuring their recycling contracts and surcharging customers for contamination.
Just what are your thoughts on structure of recycling contracts? Well one I'd point out our recycling business has actually performed pretty in line with our expectations.
So we're not caught offguard there.
We would like to see some more benefit accrued to the company with the way recycling contracts operate better pass-throughs on some of these expenses around Green Fence and so forth could help us.
But remember if recycling volumes come back we get a pretty big boost from our volumes -- I mean pricing we get pretty big boost from these facilities.
So we're working with our customers to weave some of this kind of language into our contract.
It gives us a little more protection.
But this is going to take a long long time to work through the system.
These municipalities are used to buying products a certain way and it's going to take a while for any of those kind of changes to catch on.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you are theoretically looking at similar things? Yes.
I mean we always are.
We're always looking for ways to improve the balance and make sure that the fairness in that -- in those contracts work for both parties.
Our next question comes from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I missed some of the call earlier so I apologize if you went through this detail but one thing I'm trying to understand is obviously the special waste component was a nice benefit in the quarter.
Can you just help us understand the improvement that you've seen in the incremental EBITDA this quarter? Maybe how much of that came from the landfill business and specifically special waste? Joe this is Ed.
We don't really break out or give guidance to EBITDA margin by line of business.
I think what we really saw the change in special waste in the quarter.
As Don mentioned in his speaker notes is that we had been awarded a number of projects actually last year.
And what we had seen starting probably Q3 of '12 is some of these government-run projects being delayed for various reasons.
We have now seen those projects now come back online.
One of the larger projects we have right now is a port cleanup in San Diego.
But really what we're seeing now is these projects will occur because they're environmental cleanup.
It's just that given some of the political noise we've had over the past year they had been delayed.
But we see those projects coming free and we're getting that revenue now which you would view as special waste on a recurring basis like our E&amp;P business.
We did not really see any disruption in those volumes at all.
It was really some of this event work kind of environmental cleanup that had been delayed but we definitely see these projects coming back into the pipeline.
Research Division</strong> And just one more quick one.
Switching gears to the National Account component.
I know that you guys kind of comped the large last customer that left last year.
Can you just maybe talk to the strategy on the National Account side maybe what's driving the success here? And do you think it continues to grow at a nice pace or is it going to continue to be lumpy? Well I think it's going to grow at a reasonably steady pace going forward.
We're frankly less interested these days in those really super large accounts because they tend to be a little more volatile.
Maybe we learned that lesson.
So we're still focused a little bit more on -- with some of the regional customers some of the accounts that we're closer to.
We're also expanding our share of wallet with those same customers and doing more for them.
And so we talked about the fact that we're doing more business that requires us to broker.
We're handling their white goods or their recyclables.
We're the contractor then we hire a subcontractor to do some of that work.
So we're -- again we're working to add more value and improve the service offering with those customers to be their waste stream expert so to speak.
And so we're going to continue to focus on -- it's good business it's got a good return and it is one of the areas that we think will grow for some time.
Our next question comes from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On the residential competition you talked about is that surprising to you at all? I mean with housing getting a little bit better you might think that that would actually benefit that market.
But maybe...
Yes.
I think we got this state of municipal finance that's been weak and we've talked about a lot of that.
You look at some of the data that's out there about the condition of the general fund in these cities and the way their tax base has been affected over the years.
It doesn't surprise me that cities are looking for discounts it does surprise me that some of the pricing we've seen by some of the players out there and really more some of those smaller regional and those kind of companies.
But they're capitally-intensive deployments with all the CNG requirements now.
They put contracts on automation everything else they want.
Cities are asking for a lot more services without wanting to pay a lot more price.
And at some point we just have to draw the line because we've got to get that ROI moving in the right direction for the organization.
So we're going to take a few hits there and we're also using that tough environment to battle back and actually use some privatization work.
So we've had a couple of nice privatization wins in the year albeit smaller ones.
I'm not sure they're going to be able to offset the revenue loss in total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I'm still a little bit iffy on the -- what the volume outlook is.
It almost sounds like Q3 might be a near-term high for volume growth.
Is that the right read? I think I said we're going to enter Q4 -- enter next year with positive volume positive price for the first time since '07.
So I think we've got good trend going.
We're -- we found I think the basement in commercial kind of bump it along even a little positive.
We've got this boost in industrial which has performed well not only the volume but the pricing and margin.
Landfill is hard for us.
As I said we've lost virtually all of our third-party competitive MSW volume.
So we don't get the benefit of that volume but we also don't get the benefit of those customers when they grow their volume.
So that's going to work against us a little bit.
But all in all I mean it's a pretty good story.
We need to work through some of these costs where as we talked about controlling the capital.
And in this tough CPI environment it's kind of the tail that wags the dog for us when half of our business is restricted.
So we have to work through '14's CPI environment.
And our next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Well I wanted to go back to the pricing line of questioning for '14.
I want to confirm something before I ask the question.
You said a couple of times that 50% of your business is linked to CPI.
But I also thought you said that 60% of that 50% would actually be directly impacted by the reset in CPI...
Yes that's right.
So 50% is indexed and 60% of that 50% -- you're right.
Nevertheless it's a pretty big chunk.
Research Division</strong> It's a pretty big chunk.
Okay got you.
And then what are you saying the headwind then would be from residential business that is up for a renewal and it's not just a CPI adjustment there it might be something more than that? I mean what will that be for 2014? Do you have a sense for that? Yes.
Again we're not trying to dial too much into '14 on this call.
We're trying to give you kind of where we are through the year and how we're going to end the year.
We're still working through the business plan to getting through all that.
We -- as I said we're going to work harder on those renewals.
And we're going to take a stronger position on the rollbacks.
We're still going to protect volume that has a high return.
And we're going to have the discipline to walk away from volume that doesn't have an appropriate return.
We can't keep throwing capital and additional service into some of these contracts that don't have the return criteria that we need to move forward.
So we think that's been spiraling down over the last several years.
We're probably halfway through that book of business.
And we would like to see it spiral back up.
But we've got to get the work done and business plan to get a better handle on where we think it's going to come off in '14.
Alex in a typical year as far as municipal contracts coming up for renewal generally is in a range of $300 million to $350 million.
So essentially we have to -- we'll be employing this discipline as we look at those renewals.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful guys.
And just my last question on the pricing side.
So what's the implied price that you need to get on the open market not CPI business to be able to keep average yield at around 1.5%? I mean how does that compare to history? Is there potential upside to that if we are seeing volumes grow? Well as far as our pricing actions go we've been pretty consistent through this year compared to last year.
We plan to be consistent with our pricing actions into '14 only that we're going to get a little smarter around some of the -- when you talk about some of the pricing tools that we're using and see if we can at the point of quoting our customers work a little harder on some of the fringe like the fees and some of the other things that push the open market pricing up and try to do a little better job on demonstrating the value to customers.
So we're looking to slow the rollback.
We're looking to impact some of the churn.
But if you think about it maybe it's a 50/50 split right? And we accomplished that here in the third quarter meaning we started to see the lower CPI roll into our numbers beginning July 1 and we were able to make up what we lost there with price increases in the open market.
So we're getting the job done today.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And if I can just ask one more.
It's interesting it seems like as we move through the year your temporary roll-off business seems to be very exposed to housing has strengthened even though looking at the macro housing data it's actually softened.
I'm curious if you have any thoughts on that disconnect and what that may be related to? Well I think that's just the lag the natural lag.
When you read about housing starts and then you see the production of waste from that construction it just lags.
So I think that's what we're experiencing today.
I would tell you we think we're getting our fair share of that business...
At a higher price.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Stewart Scharf with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
Can you talk a little about the natural gas trucks fleet how things are going your rate of conversion and also on your fueling stations? Are you looking to profit or could you quantify how much of the fueling stations will be -- what percentage will be used for outside fleets other than Republic Services? And how much could you -- you could earn on that? Yes.
Stewart we're -- currently 11% of our fleet is on natural gas vehicles.
We have a fleet of 15 000 trucks.
We buy about 1 000 trucks per year as our replacement program.
And we've been buying about half CNG trucks and about half diesel.
So we're kind of upping that percentage if you like 3% or 3.5% per year.
And as far as the fueling stations we use it only for our own trucks.
We don't fuel anybody else's.
So you have no plans to share that share the fueling stations? No no.
Because if you think about it we have to fuel our trucks every day.
And we do that in the evening when the trucks are idle and there's no -- we have no plans to be a retailer of fuels.
We view our investment in the natural gas infrastructure as being a competitive advantage and we don't want to share that with other folks.
How many fueling stations do you have right now? 25 plus or minus.
25.
And they cost roughly $1 million per station? It depends on the size $1.5 million to $2 million.
You also have to realize you have a different maintenance environment.
So there are some other changes which need to occur.
And really from a safety perspective you don't really want folks that are not part of Republic coming on the property.
We're not a fuel retailer.
We're in the business of solid waste management.
And what's the hurdle rate? What are you looking for ROI in that kind of investment based on the...
It's in the mid-teens.
We have the payback of 3 to 4 years.
Our next question comes from Barbara Noverini with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> What are some of the factors that make Republic Services a more competitive vendor to a National Accounts worth? I know you haven't mentioned much about National Accounts in a couple quarters and we're seeing some nice improvement in the quarter.
So I'm wondering if maybe your strategy has changed maybe you're better equipped to satisfy demand for recycling from these customers now that you've added some capacity into your network.
Well I think what matters to National Account customers is as I used the term earlier they're looking for somebody to be their waste expert somebody who can understand all the aspects of the waste stream and help them manage them.
So whether that is recycling diversion of white goods all those kinds of things the things we do.
Reporting is important to large customers who have a distributed network.
They want access to data that helps them understand what's going on at their locations.
And so that's an important aspect.
We've got customer service tools our portal that they can access their information and manage their information online through our system.
So those are the kind of things that we incorporate into our presentations to customers.
They get really good service.
And we've got a third-party hauler network in those markets that we don't serve to help us out to give us that broad reach.
So all in all I think we do a good job for them.
And we're finding other ways to meet their needs albeit some of those new ways don't really require our capital our brick-and-mortar but we're finding with opportunities through other alliances and other third-party networks to meet their needs and just be their go-to company and sort of take the worries off of their plate.
So that's what we do for our customers.
And we'll continue to find those accounts that -- and customers that see the value in them.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Would you be able to provide some sort of ballpark with the recycling business that does come from these customers? Are you able to handle most of it or do you need to rely on a third-party network to take the majority of it? Well we're not in the for instance the e-waste business.
We haven't built any infrastructure around that.
So when it comes to certain slices of the waste stream we work through alliances.
We don't have -- we're not in the medical waste business so -- even though we have alliances for that.
So what we try to do is stick with the what we call traditional recycling the fiber which is the highest content of the waste stream.
And that's where we play with our own people and our own trucks.
And then we rely on these other partners to help us fill in the gaps.
Our next question comes from Jeff Osborne with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most everything's been answered here.
Just 2 quick ones for me.
One is I wonder if you could just touch on what you're seeing in the M&amp;A environment for 2014 as we exit the year? And then the special waste business obviously a bright spot here in the third quarter a bit erratic to start the year.
Just what's the trajectory here as we head into the fourth quarter and early next year? Well on the M&amp;A side as I said in my comments we think that we've got a couple more years of spending about $100 million in spend to buy good companies at that same multiple and in tuck-in environments so in cities and markets we're already in.
We're looking at collection companies and occasionally some infrastructure that helps fill out our network.
So we've got a pretty good pipeline and we haven't seen multiples necessarily change.
We're always looking for good companies and we think we've got the ability to continue to do that.
On the special waste side as Ed said the business can be a little lumpy but more so on the event-driven business.
So again what we saw happen in Q3 was sort of picking up some of that pent-up demand that was deferred from Q2.
So we think that will even out in Q4 and then settle down to be as good as average or better than average in '14.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you Lisa.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a safe evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services Conference Call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded and all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session following Republic's summary of quarterly earnings.
(Operator Instructions).
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Lang.
Good afternoon Mr.
Lang.
Thanks Angie.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
This is Ed Lang and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' fourth quarter and full year 2013 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO; Glenn Culpepper our CFO and Brian DelGhiaccio Vice President of Investor Relations are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involves risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is February 6 2014.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When presentations are scheduled the dates and times are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us as we discuss Republic Services 2013 performance and 2014 guidance.
I am pleased to report our fourth quarter and full year performance exceeded our financial guidance.
Republic team continued to execute on our long term strategy and maintained our track record of generating strong free cash flow.
We are managing the business for long term success including investments in growth acquisitions and productivity improvements.
After reinvesting in the business and consistent with our approach to cash utilization we return the majority of free cash flow to our stockholders.
I will now discuss some our financial highlights.
Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.53.
These results include $0.03 of favorable development in insurance claim costs and $0.03 of reduced environmental cost.
Full year adjusted EPS was $1.97.
We achieved the upper end of our guidance range even without the $0.06 of favorable items recorded in the fourth quarter.
This level of performance was in line with our expectations and consistent with the guidance we provided on our third quarter earnings call.
Full year 2013 adjusted free cash flow was $714 million which exceeded our guidance of $675 million to $700 million.
This level of performance continues to demonstrate the strong cash flow characteristics of our business.
Full year 2013 EBITDA margin was 29%.
The improvement in our second half 2013 margin performance includes an increase in landfill special waste which was lagging during the first half of the year.
Core price in the fourth quarter was 3.4% and our average yield was 1.3%.
We continue to see better price contribution from the open market to offset lower CPI-based price resets.
Fourth quarter volume increased 2.5% volume growth continues to be concentrated C&amp;D roll off national accounts and landfill special waste.
Throughout the year we discussed our multiyear initiatives that enable us to execute our strategy.
These initiatives are designed to profitably build the business enhance the customer experience and improve productivity and reduce cost.
I will now recap our progress made during 2013.
The investment made in acquisitions was $82 million.
We acquired approximately $60 million of revenue a post synergy EBITDA multiple of approximately 4.5 times.
These transactions consist of tuck-in acquisitions that layer in well for markets we already serve.
We completed several privatizations of municipal solid waste services during 2013 with additional total annual of revenue of approximately $70 million.
These are profitable growth opportunities for Republic while lowering cost and mitigating risks for municipalities.
We increased recycling capabilities by investing approximately $30 million in developing and upgrading our recycling centers during the year.
2013 recycling facility tons per day increased 8.5% over the prior year.
Most of the increase relates to recycling facilities that have been added or upgraded over the last four quarters.
We continue to invest in our CNG fleet and natural gas infrastructure with 12% of our fleet now operating on natural gas.
During 2013 about 50% of trucks purchased were fueled by CNG.
66% of our residential fleets is now automated which was in line with our year end goal.
Automation creates a safe to work environment for employees improves driver productivity and reduces labor cost.
Approximately 45% of our fleet has completed our one fleet maintenance initiative and our maintenance cost headwind continues to abate.
We expect to have 50% of the fleet completed by mid-2014 at which point we’ll start realizing benefits.
Finally our cash return to owners was approximately 4.7%.
Dividend payments during the year were $349 million and we repurchased 6.5 million shares for $240 million a part of our achievements during 2013 which is reflected in our strong performance.
I want to thank entire Republic team for their hard work and execution.
Glenn and Ed will now discuss our financial performance.
Glenn?  Thanks Don.
Fourth quarter 2013 revenue was approximately $2.1 billion an increase of $113 million from the prior year.
This 5.6% increase in revenue includes acquisitions of 60 basis points and reflects the following three components of internal growth; pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First pricing.
We had an average yield growth of 1.3%.
Fourth quarter average yield was consistent with our third quarter performance and in line with our expectations.
Core price in the fourth quarter was 3.4%.
As a reminder core price is defined as price increases to customers in changes and fees excluding fuel recovery net of price decreases.
Average yield in the collection business was 1.2% which includes 2.8% yield in the industrial business and 1.6% yield in the commercial business.
Average yield in the post-collection business was 1.9% led by landfill which increased 2.1%.
We continue to see better open market pricing to help offset lower CPI-based resets.
As a reminder 50% of our revenue has a contractually based pricing restriction and a majority reset in the second half of the year.
Fuel recovery fees increased 0.2%.
Most of this change relates to an increase in the rate charge to recover fuel costs.
Second fourth quarter volumes increased 2.5% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive 1.1% primarily due to an increase in industrial volume.
Growth in the industrial line of business includes C&amp;D and other temporary activity which was up 6.4% and the permanent business was up 3%.
The post collection business consisting a third-party landfill and transfer station volume was positive 6.4% which includes an increase in landfill special waste of approximately 18%.
Special waste landfill volumes began to slow in the second half of 2012 which created an easier comparison.
Our landfill MSW volumes were down 2%.
Our defection rate which represents the annualized rate of customer turnover remained stable at approximately 7%.
Third an increase in commodity sales resulted in a 1% increase in revenue.
The increase in commodity sales reflects both higher prices for recycled commodities and an increase in tons sold.
Commodity prices increased approximately 6% to an average of $116 per ton in the fourth quarter from $109 per ton in the prior year.
This represents the average price for all commodity types across all regions.
Fourth quarter recycling facility commodity volume of approximately 600 000 tons was up 13.6% from the prior year.
Most of the increase relates to additional national accounts brokered volumes.
We saw a 6% in tons sold at new or recently upgraded facilities which was partially offset by a Murph we closed that was not earning an adequate return.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $110 per ton.
For reference purposes a $10 per ton change in commodity values equals approximately $0.03 of full year EPS which includes the impact on our recycling facility and collection businesses.
Now I will discuss year-over-year margin.
Fourth quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 30.3% compared to 28.2% in the prior year an increase of 210 basis points.
As Don mentioned there were favorable environmental and risk insurance savings that added $0.06 of EPS and reduced cost by approximately a 170 basis points compared to the prior year.
Even without these items total EBITDA dollars increased and margin expanded 40 basis points in the quarter.
Our full year adjusted EBITDA margin was 29%.
The margin contribution from the reduced insurance and environmental cost on our full year performance was approximately 40 basis points.
Our full year EBITDA margin performance was approximately 28.6% excluding these items.
I will now discuss the change in specific cost categories for the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the prior year.
First labor cost improved 30 basis points.
This was primary due to higher levels of special waste received in the quarter which added very little incremental labor expense.
Maintenance and repairs increased 30 basis points.
The increase primarily relates to implementation cost associated with our one fleet maintenance initiative and the general increase in the cost to repairs due to increased truck complexity and enhanced emission controls.
As Don mentioned we expect that 50% of the fleet will complete our standardized maintenance program by mid-2014.
We are confident that we can cost effectively extend the useful life of our fleet by approximately one year once the majority of the vehicles have been certified.
We estimate this will reduce future capital requirements by approximately $200 million spread over four to five year period beginning in 2015.
Transportation and sub contract costs increased 50 basis points which primarily relates to growth in the outsourced portion of our national accounts business and the incremental special waste volume.
In the National Accounts business we employ subcontractors to perform a portion of the work.
While incremental EBITDA margin on this work tends to be in the middle-single digit range this work generates additional free cash flow and has attractive returns since it has very limited capital requirements.
For special waste there is often additional third-party transportation to deliver the volumes to our landfills.
Next fuel.
The 70 basis point improvement primarily relates to a higher percentage of natural gas trucks in our fleet.
Currently about 12% of our fleet runs on natural gas.
We will continue to replace diesel trucks with natural gas vehicles where appropriate and as part of our normal truck replacement cycle.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $3.87 in the fourth quarter from $4.02 in the prior year a decrease of approximately 4%.
The current average diesel price is approximately $3.95 per gallon.
For reference purposes a $0.20 change in diesel fuel per gallon is about $0.01 of full year EPS which includes the impact of our fuel recovery fees and our fuel hedges.
Landfill operating costs improved 80 basis points related to the favorable reductions in environmental liabilities.
We do not expect savings of this size in future periods.
Risk management cost improved 80 basis points.
Most of this change relates to a decrease in outstanding claim cost as determined by our actuaries.
We’re focused on claims management to reduce the ultimate cost of our claims.
Magnitude of this benefit should be viewed as a unique event although we continue to look at waste to further reduce cost through ongoing safety initiatives and an effective claims management process.
Cost of goods sold increased 70 basis points and increased to an average of $40 per ton from $28 per ton in the prior year.
Most of the change relates to brokering recycled commodity volumes on behalf of our national accounts customers.
The return on this business is attractive since there are limits capital requirements.
Finally SG&amp;A expense was 9.8% of revenue an improvement of 40 basis points compared to the prior year.
Total SG&amp;A dollars were relatively flat to prior year on revenue growth of over $100 million.
DD&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 11.5% in the fourth quarter versus 11.6% in the prior year.
DD&amp;A is higher than capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue due to the amortization of intangibles.
Ed will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Glenn.
Fourth quarter 2013 interest expense was $90 million which included $12 million of non-cash amortization.
Our full year 2013 effective tax rate was 36.5% of adjusted earnings and was impacted by favorably closing out open tax years under audit and realizing additional federal and state credits on our 2012 tax returns.
In 2014 there were two tax related changes resulting in a $0.13 EPS headwind.
First in 2014 we expect to return to our normal statutory effective tax rate of approximately 39.5%.
When compared to the 36.5% effective rate in 2013 this result in an EPS headwind of approximately $0.11.
Second during 2013 we realized alternative fuel tax credits under a provision of the IRS tax code.
Similar to bonus depreciation Congress did not extend this provision beyond 2013.
The expiration of the fuel tax credit results in a $0.02 EPS headwind.
Full year 2013 adjusted free cash flow was $714 million.
Adjusted free cash flow included net capital expenditures of $856 million.
With the expiration of bonus depreciation at the end of 2013 we expect cash taxes to increase approximately $60 million in 2014.
Our 2014 adjusted free cash flow guidance range of $675 million to $725 million is relatively consistent with our 2013 performance.
We expect to overcome the cash tax increase with growth from the business and reductions in capital spending.
Finally I'll discuss the balance sheet.
At December 31 our accounts receivable balance was $891 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at December 30 and excess availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.5 billion.
I'll now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
Before closing I'll provide 2014 financial guidance.
We expect 2014 adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $1.93 to $1.98.
Excluding the $0.13 of tax-related items this represents mid to high-single digit earnings growth.
Our guidance assumes that fuel or recycled commodity prices remain at current levels for the full year.
We anticipate 2014 adjusted free cash flow in the range of $675 million to $725 million.
This level of performance is relatively consistent with 2013 even though we have to overcome a $60 million increase in cash taxes.
We expect annual revenue growth of 3.5% to 4.5% which includes average yield of 1% to 1.5% volume growth of 1.5% to 2% and contribution from acquisitions of approximately 1%.
Our expected yield performance is relatively consistent with our 2013 performance.
We expect a step down in CPI price resets offset by higher levels of price contributions from our open markets.
Our expected volume performance anticipates construction and business activity will continue to improve partially offset by a modest decline in our residential business.
Pricing levels for municipal bins and residential subscription work continues to be challenging and we will only renew business if it meets our return criteria.
We anticipate 2014 EBITDA margin of 28.5% to 29%.
As Glenn mentioned our full year EBITDA margin in 2013 was 28.6% excluding the favorable insurance and environmental items recorded in the fourth quarter.
Our 2014 EBITDA margin guidance is consistent with or slightly up versus the normalized 2013 performance.
2014 net capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $820 million.
During 2014 we will continue to focus on managing the controllable aspects of our business by enhancing the quality of our revenue investing in profitable opportunities and reducing cost.
We will enhance the quality of revenue by identifying customer segments and targeting those willing to pay for our higher quality service offering; focusing on the customer experience to differentiate our service offering and build customer loyalty; and prudent pricing decisions made by our sales team at the point-of-sale using upgraded ROI-based pricing tools; enhancing controls for new business sales and service level transactions; better aligned sales incentive programs and increasing fee participation rates in our cost recovery programs.
We will continue to profitably grow the business through acquisitions municipal privatizations and building capabilities to capture growth and diversion.
We will continue to manage our cost structure by automating residential routes to reduce labor cost; improved driver productivity and create a safer work environment; lowering our cost of fuel and reducing emissions through conversion of CNG vehicles; standardizing maintenance practices and processes to reduce cost and leveraging SG&amp;A expense.
Collectively we anticipate these cost initiatives will lower our cost structure by 75 to 100 basis points over the next three years.
The long term business fundaments and strength of our assets has not changed.
We still believe that pricing levels exceed cost inflation under normal business conditions.
We gain operating leverage and increased density with broad-based volume growth.
We can differentiate our service offerings through superior customer service world-class safety and employee engagement.
We can maintain our pace of tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets.
Margins can expand through cost efficiencies productivity improvements and leveraging SG&amp;A expenses.
And finally return on invested capital can steadily improve through earnings growth capital spending controls and investing wisely in the business.
Our team remains focused on executing our strategy to deliver consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
We are committed to an efficient capital structure maintaining our investment grade rating and increasing cash returns to our stockholders.
At this time operator we’ll open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Hamzah Mazari from Crédit Suisse your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thank you.
The first question is just on the gross margin.
Could you give us a sense Don and Glenn what type of incremental margins you are seeing on the volume growth that you are getting? We had talked about sort of a 40% mid 40% incremental EBITDA margin a year ago maybe more.
And then within that gross margin that you guys reported is that $0.06 favorable number that you quoted on insurance claims and $0.03 on environmental cost? Is that in the gross margin line as well?  I will take the second question first Hamzah.
The $0.06 yes that is in the gross margin line.
So our gross margin for the fourth quarter was 30.3%.
If you take out those two items our gross margin would have been about 28.6%.
Sure and I will take the first question.
So first remember we’ve got some mix issues going on here Hamzah.
So some of the growth a lot of the growth is coming from national accounts which as you know a lot of that revenue is tied to subcontractor work and some of these brokered recycling tons so that comes at a lower margin but still a good return.
And the other big part of growth is coming from our construction C&amp;D type hauling.
So I will tell you that we still use our ROI based pricing tools in all of the decisions that we make to grow the business so whether it’s a small commercial customer or municipal bid or large national account in all the prices we use for our C&amp;D hauling in our local markets is all based on improving ROI.
So we know that as we build the density of the business and continue to make good ROI-based decisions we’re growing the business profitably.
Great and just a follow up question I will turn it over.
You talked about open market pricing offsetting lower CPI.
Any change you are seeing in terms of discipline or rationality amongst either the majors or private this quarter relative to the last quarter or previously? Thank you.
Okay I don't think there’s much of a change what we have seen previously.
I think the larger companies tend to be from what we can still more ROI-focused and tend to be more rational.
Smaller players do tend to fly underneath the price umbrella that's provided by larger companies and those trends will continue and are not very surprising.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Corey Greendale for First Analysis.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Corey.
Hi.
Don question on the guidance.
With the EBITDA margin at the low end you are suggesting could be flat to down slightly you've been very clear about touch to get a lot of margin expansion in the low CPI environmental but you also pointed out the benefit eventually from growing volumes.
So if the low ends are conservative or what could happen to the result of hitting the low end of EBITDA margin guidance?  Well.
Our guidance is 28.5% to 29% EBITDA margin.
And for both the fourth quarter and for the full year on kind of normalized basis I think we said that it was 28.6%.
So in fact our guidance range is relatively even too up from 2013.
Okay.
That sounds like the low end just being conservative if I am hearing you right.
So… I'd say it's a fair bridge from where we were in Q4.
Q4 had a lot of special waste as we said right.
So that was one of the reasons Q4 performed as well as it did.
So special waste is a little bit lumpy that's not going to carry right into the first part of the year and probably it will be more evenly spread out through 2014 that we anticipate.
And it sounded like the residential line of business is somewhat of an outlier in terms of the pricing discipline.
Can you just talk about why you think that's different and volume trends overall and what you are seeing there? Well same conditions exist in residential that have existed through the last couple of years.
You have got municipalities that are not in say a very healthy state of general finance and so they are really pressuring haulers.
We've seen a little bit of more of challenging environmental at least in some markets from pricing activities for new bids and extensions on business.
So that's been challenging.
I just think we are at the bottom of that cycle and hopefully working our way out of it.
We are going to work through the rest of this let's say re-pricing some of those residential contracts and we look to CPI to improve over the long run.
I don't think anybody believes that CPI is going to stay as low as it is forever.
So on the 0.5 year average CPI is three plus percent and I think as we go forward a year or two we should start to get some relief on and get back to some normalized CPI environment and that will help things out as well.
And I could say one more thing is -- I think occasionally you see spikes in parts of your business right now but certainly a little more competitive in some markets and as I said in my comments we just decided that we are just not going to price below a reasonable return on that business.
And so at some point I think competitively think things will have to change.
Because I don't think people can continue to do some of that business as cheaply as they are doing.
Okay.
[inaudible].
Thank you.
Thank you.
Adam Thalhimer from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask first about the C&amp;D business.
Are you seeing any margin improvement in that business? Yeah.
Absolutely.
Our industrial line of business that we've seen it's really a nice story.
We've seen year-over-year growth in units year-over-year growth in price per unit and as a result year-over-year improvement in margin.
So just as it should occur.
And we talked about this on our Q3 call as we that part of our business turn off and we expect that to continue through 2014.
And then I wanted to ask about the commercial business I think you said that it is a slight positive in 2014.
I mean can you expand on that like in recent quarters you talked about some greenshoots in terms of commercial volumes.
What are you seeing there? Well.
Commercial volume is in absolute units it's up.
The margins are pretty stable there.
We continue to have pretty good pricing in the open market commercial.
As I said that offsets some of the price headwinds in our CPI-based pricing book of business.
What we haven’t seen is a dramatic increase in service levels but I would say that if you did an eight quarter chart and drew a straight line through service increases and services decreases you would say that it’s an improving environment across both of those metrics over an eight quarter period.
So we would look for that to continue in ’14.
At what rate we can’t necessarily forecast but we look for it to continuing to improve.
Okay thanks guys.
Congrats again.
Thank you.
Joe Box from KeyBanc Capital Markets your line is open.
Hey good evening guys.
Hi Joe.
Can you just put a little bit of color around the $35 million reduction in net CapEx.
Just kind of curious is that more asset disposal maybe spending little bit less on recycling or just maybe an early benefit of one fleet? Yeah I would say it’s a couple of things.
You know we pulled a little bit forward into ’13 bought a few trucks early and we are spending a little less on recycling build out in ’14 and in the last two years again.
We are still reworking a number of facilities in ’14 like some of those private [haulers] aren’t as capital intensive is the one we took on last year and a year before.
So we’re still moving on recycling platform forward.
It's really those two things.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then it’s been about quarter since the Atlanta is closed.
Can you maybe just give us an update on the fundamentals in that market? Yeah I would say that it really hasn’t helped us much.
We probably got a little bit of revenue out of it nothing to make a headline out of.
We’re a best situated landfill in that market and so we tend to be the highest price because of convenience factor.
We’re not predisposed to lower our rates to track the volume and I would say that most of the volume has found its way to Orange County to the County site.
Understood.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Michael Hoffman from Wunderlich your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Nice job on the year-end.
Thanks Michael.
Can you talk about what is it you measure to manage when you are talking about your standardized maintenance program and the things you will be looking for that being a success and you have lapped yourself on some of this already so part of those metrics in fact proving to be valid and therefore it actually gives you confidence about ongoing success.
Sure well we measure a number of things both in maintenance and directly fleet metrics and non-fleet metrics.
So we measure absolute cost per hour as a baseline.
I will tell you that some of our divisions were spending money poorly and having high cost per maintenance that we can bring down some more spending money not enough money and having more breakdowns and major component failure.
And so their baseline cost per hour was maybe lower than is reasonable and those divisions are going to have a higher cost per hour to have a better end result.
We look at total maintenance spend per route and those kind of things but we also look at driver down time.
We look at how many hours per week trucks were sitting on the side of the road broke down because of component failure.
We look in the pure metrics of routing mishap we look at what percentage of our repairs are schedule versus non schedule.
A world class fleet would operate at about 80% of the work scheduled so those repairs being not only preventive maintenance but things that you are supposed to catch during preventive maintenance during routine maintenance checks and during driver checks of their trucks.
So we’re catching things before they break.
Things are being scheduled appropriately.
Our technician time we moved to a format of standard repair times across our fleet.
So our technicians know exactly how much time we expect those repairs to take and we better manage our workforce on the floor shop.
We measure inventory levels.
So everyone of our maintenance our one-fleet rollout has resulted in a substantial drop in our parts inventory that we use at every facility.
Spare truck ratio at some point we’re starting to see the earliest fleets that have gone through this lower their spare truck ratio.
Once they have confidence that their uptime is getting improved fleet availability improves then we have sort of the ability to let go some of those spares and reduce cost that way.
On the non-fleet side we've got driver productivity.
We have better customer service metrics.
We rolled out customer service metrics across the entire company last year in every division measuring their missed pick-ups and also their performance against the commitments they have made to customers.
And those metrics improve when the fleet improves.
So we think that at some point translates into better quality revenue and customers willing to pay a little bit more because our service levels increase.
After all that said and done you're going to get an improvement in driving moral and employee turnover which we haven't really measured much as kind of the softer side.
And then ultimately and we talked about this $200 million of CapEx reduction.
So starting in 2015 we're going to age the fleet by one year over a four to five year period and that's going to save us $200 million.
So we're going to get all that paid back by the investments we've made in just the CapEx change alone on top of that we're going to be higher performing company in every division with better employee engagement and better customer satisfaction scores across the board how's that? That's great thanks.
And then second one Glenn or Ed cash flow from operations about 15 $1.58 billion to $1.55 billion this year it looks like that number was down if just do the simple capital spending plus the mid-point of free-cash flow.
So what's -- is that you are having some negative working capital swing here or what's happening there and why would we see an incremental negative working capital spend particularly in light of everything Don just talked about I was thinking about it the other way.
It's really just cash taxes Michael will be up significant next year through the expiration of bonus depreciation we -- that's a $60 million headwind.
Okay.
And then one housekeeping item what's the share count you are using when you gave your guidance? That 366 million share [inaudible] Michael.
I am sorry you broke up Glenn.
It's about 360 shares was about our year-end share count.
Okay great thanks.
Thank you.
Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
How are you guys? Hi Alex.
Don I want to ask you about pricing can you talk about how you see the pricing on the collection side average yield feel as you guys currently trend relative to the landfill side? To the landfill side? Yeah can you just talk about how you see pricing on landfill relative to the collection side in 4Q? Yeah I would say landfill specifically MSW trends down have been sort of flat for us.
I've seen special ways to trend it up and C&amp;D as the landfill has trended up MSW has been a little bit pressured.
We've consistently been raising price to the landfills watching them and doubling volume along the ways we talked about that trend continuing in Q4 but total landfill in Q4 yield was 2% down a little bit from Q3 I would think flattish throughout the rest of the year.
Got it thanks for that.
And then on the industrial side can you talk about what is driving the improvement in the volume do you have the sense of the new residential construction market repair model the non-residential construction what that could be? Do you have a sense of sort of how the ends markets are performing and sort of given if you are seeing an industrial business? Well first I would tell you that both permanent our permanent rollout and our temporary rollout were both up in Q4.
We don't really make a distinction between residential construction and commercial construction because it really doesn't mean anything to us and how we run our business.
So I really don’t have metrics to share with you there.
As I shared before I mean it was up pretty dramatically in Q3 and it performed well in Q4.
We expect it to maintain that kind of trend through 2014.
So it's a bright spot for us what we've all been waiting for.
And we all said for many years the business sort of builds around household formation so as we see more new home construction and then we see more business development around the new home construction infrastructure business formation come in and that's going to fuel the commercial business as well.
So it's happening the way we thought would happen maybe it took a little longer to get started but we’re looking forward to a pretty good trend in ’14.
That's all thank you.
Thank you.
Derek Sbrogna from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks for taking my question guys.
Just wanted to dig in a little bit.
Over the last couple of quarters you have seen volume growth of 2.5% to 2.7% and the overall guidance for 2014 1.5% to 2% range is that really just a function of what we have seen over the last couple of quarters with the special waste in the C&amp;D coming out? That’s the biggest factor there Derek.
If you look at our 2.5% in the fourth quarter special waste landfill volumes drove about 90 basis points of that and our collection business which is 75% of our revenue was 1.1% growth in volume.
So we would see ourselves as continuing to grow all of those things but the special waste had an easier comparison in the fourth quarter this year compared to the last year and that’s what really drove the 2.5%.
Okay and just one more.
Last quarter you guys bumped the repurchase authorization and then were pretty quiet in Q4.
Was that really just a function of pulling forward the CapEx into Q4 and specifically if you could talk a little bit more about appetite for buybacks in 2014? Thanks.
I will just tell you that we’re committed to the buybacks and that's been pretty consistent in our history and we’re committed to buyback in 2014.
We think we've had probably the steadiest trend in the industry on cash yield.
You are going to see us continue to spend on the buyback in 2014.
It could be around $400 million or so.
Great thanks very much.
Great.
Thank you.
Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Don Glenn I just wanted to clarify did you say total price in ’14 was being guided 1% to 1.5% or is that core price? That was our yield.
Yield okay.
So help me appreciate I fully get the CPI mix headwinds.
I heard your comments about competitive markets maybe easing and your churn being relatively consistent or flat.
It still doesn’t sound like you will get healthy or improving competitive markets because I would think that would lift that pricing guidance that you provided.
So are you not able to get to the market with a better price given defending volume or what’s happening there is it mix? Well let’s start with you know the big headline in CPI is actually going is going to happen us negatively in ’14.
So that’s kind of about is a 60 basis points move in CPI so you know that’s that tends to be you know a little bit of tail that wags the dog for us.
We have talked about it so.
We expect that we will be as active in the open market in ’14 as we were in ’13 and we think the open market will allow us to get little bit more price in ’14 than ’13 to offset the CPI headwinds and the resets that we’ll face.
So absolutely the nutshell.
So we do have some dynamics improving.
Again pricing in CNG roll-offs going up price in special waste has held up and actually gone up nicely.
We got to be consistent with our pricing cadence through ’14 in the open market we got to hold our line of landfill pricing like we have historically and hit our marks.
So we believe that as I said CPI at some point will start to give us a positive bounce but we don't control that.
So we just got to operate around it for now.
Okay so 60 basis headwind is what you calculated for.
From CPI right.
All right okay.
And then just a second part and the margin story on the [XT] items are obviously up a little bit for ’14 with the guide but with that pricing backdrop and some of the net special waste and I guess the closure of one recycling facility I would think margins would have a little better room going directionally higher than say 28.5% and 29%.
So first I guess the broader question would be are you planning should we be on the lookout for further closures on recycling facilities due to economics? And then two generically I think you have always thought special waste has been a tougher margin business than the collection business? No the last question first.
Special waste has not necessarily been a -- it's been a great business for us and a good margin business for us.
The larger the special waste job the tighter the margin becomes but special waste performed very nicely for us in not only in volume but in margin.
So we hope to see that continue.
The best you can do when you are building business plan is look at the current trends and look at the actions you are taking and build them together.
So we think the 28.5% to 29% margin performance for '14 is a strong performance.
We don't have a lot of business closures or work closures that we can be concern ourselves with.
It really comes down to the headwind from the CPI environment and we don't start to see benefits from the one [inaudible] till the second half of the year and all the other cost initiatives that we talked about continue.
So we think it's a pretty good story and if CPI starts to give some relief in the out years then we just grow from there.
We still believe that in the long run we can see margins over 30% again but it's going to take some better CPI environment for us to experience that.
Just curious was the Murph closure in a top 25 market or outside of that? No it was a smaller one.
Thanks Don.
Thank you.
Barbara Noverini from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Hello? Can you give us a little extra color on the recycling component of your municipal privatization.
For example in your recent deals do these cities already have a second program in place have you found that these deals are predicated and adding to or upgrading struggling with second programs as well? No I don't think recycling is kind of a decision point for privatization of a municipal collection operation.
Generally they are relatively small contracts and simply the city is looking at the capital spending requirement for fleets.
So containers and then we prefer to kind of step away from the business not wanting to make those type with long-term tactical commitments.
Got it.
Thanks.
I am showing no other questions at this time.
Thank you Angie.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a great evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services Conference Call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the first quarter 2014 call for investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
[Operator instructions.] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon operator.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
This is Brian DelGhiaccio and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' first quarter 2014 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO; Glenn Culpepper our CFO; and Ed Lang Senior Vice President of Finance are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is April 24 2014.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased with our first quarter results and are proud of the way the Republic team responded to challenging winter conditions.
Even though we lost approximately 3% of our route days in the central and east regions due to weather we reported positive volume growth positive yield in all lines of business and generated strong cash flow to fund substantial cash returns to shareholders.
Some of the financial highlights for the quarter include first quarter EPS was $0.43.
Excluding the weather impact adjusted EPS would have been $0.45.
About half of the $0.02 weather impact was due to lost revenue opportunities and the remainder was due to increased operating costs.
Adjusted free cash flow was $186 million and it was in line with our expectations.
This level of performance continues to demonstrate the strong cash flow characteristics of our business.
Core price in the first quarter was 3.2% and average yield was 1.2%.
Average yield was comparable to the first quarter of the prior year even with a 110 basis point decline in CPI-based pricing.
We continue to see strong core price contribution from the open market to offset lower CPI-based price resets.
First quarter volumes increased 1.5%.
Volume growth was concentrated due to C&amp;D roll off national accounts and landfill special waste.
Commercial service level changes were positive in the first quarter and increased sequentially.
This is a continuation of a trend that began in 2013.
We returned $226 million to shareholders during the quarter through share repurchases and dividends.
This includes 3.9 million shares repurchased for $132 million.
We still expect to spend approximately $400 million on share repurchases in 2014.
During the quarter we continued to make progress on our multiyear initiatives that enabled us to execute our strategy.
We are focused on managing the controllable aspects of our business by improving the quality of revenue investing in profitable growth opportunities and reducing costs.
For example during the first quarter we launched My Resource a customer portal that gives our customers online access to their accounts and our services.
This expanded technology enhances our customers’ experience by making it easier to do business with us.
These capabilities further differentiate our service offering and increase value to our customers.
We continue to improve service quality by consistently delivering on the promises we make to our customers.
The goal is to build customer loyalty and improve customer retention.
We grade ourselves using Net Promoter Score or NPS which measures the willingness of our customers to recommend our services.
Our Net Promoter Scores have improved in five consecutive quarters.
The investment made in acquisitions was $11 million.
We acquired approximately $7 million of revenue at a post-synergy EBITDA multiple of 4.5x.
These transactions consist of tuck-in acquisitions that layer in well to markets we already service.
At the end of the quarter we had $18 million of deals under letter of intent.
12% of our fleet is currently operating on natural gas.
We expect that 14% of the fleet will be operating on natural gas by the end of the year.
57% of our residential fleet is now automated.
47% of our fleet has completed our One Fleet maintenance initiative.
We remain confident that we can cost-effectively extend the use of our fleet by one year once the majority of our vehicles have been certified.
We estimate that this will reduce future capital requirements by $200 million spread over a 4 to 5 year period beginning in 2015.
Our initiatives remain on track and we plan to launch other initiatives over the next several quarters including the next generation of our ROI based pricing tool.
I’m proud of our achievements during the first quarter and remain encouraged by the underlying strength of the business.
I want to thank the entire Republic team for their hard work and execution.
Glenn and Ed will now discuss the financial performance.
Glenn? Thanks Don.
First quarter 2014 revenue was approximately $2.1 billion an increase of $75 million from the prior year.
This 3.8% increase in revenue includes acquisitions of 60 basis points and reflects the following three components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First pricing.
We had an average yield growth of 1.2%.
First quarter average yield was consistent with the same period in the prior year and in line with our expectations.
Core price in the first quarter was 3.2%.
Average yield in the collection business was 1.3% which includes 2.7% yield in the industrial business and 1.2% yield in the commercial business.
Average yield in the post-collection business was 1.4% led by landfill and MSW which increased approximately 2%.
Fuel recovery fees increased 0.1%.
Fuel costs increased approximately $2 million compared to the prior year and decreased 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $3.96 in the first quarter from $4.03 in the past year a decrease of approximately 1.7%.
The current average diesel price is approximately $3.95 per gallon.
Second volumes increased 1.5% year over year.
The collection business was positive 1.1% primarily due to an increase in industrial volume.
Growth in the industrial line of business was 3.1% which includes C&amp;D and other temporary activity which was up approximately 6%.
Growth in the commercial business continues to be positive but modest at 1.1%.
Collection volume also includes a 50 basis point decline in the residential business primarily due to contracts lost in bid situations.
We will only renew business if it meets our return criteria.
The post-collection business consisting of third-party landfill and transfer station volume was positive 1.8% which includes an increase in landfill special waste of approximately 14%.
Special waste landfill volumes were lower in the first quarter of 2013 which created an easier comparison.
Our landfill MSW volumes were down 1.6%.
Our defection rate which represents the annualized rate of customer turnover remains stable at approximately 7%.
Third commodity revenue increased 40 basis points.
The increase in commodity sales reflects both higher prices for recycled commodities and an increase in tons sold.
Commodity prices increased 4.4% to an average price of $117 per ton in the first quarter from $112 per ton in the past year.
This represents the average price for all commodity types across all regions.
First quarter recycling facility volume of 558 000 tons was up 3.6% from the prior year.
Most of the increase relates to additional national accounts brokered volumes.
We closed five older recycling centers that we no longer operate or that were consolidated into other facilities.
We intentionally rationalized recycling assets that did not meet our return criteria.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $113 per ton.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities increased $12 million compared to the prior year an increase of 50 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Most of the change relates to brokering recycled commodity volumes on behalf of our national accounts customers.
The return on this business is attractive since there are limited capital requirements.
Now I will discuss year over year margin.
First quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin was 27.7% compared to 28.5% in the prior year a decrease of 80 basis points.
As Don mentioned our business was impacted by the severe weather conditions in the first quarter which reduced EBITDA margin performance by approximately 30 basis points.
The margin impact mostly relates to an increase in operating costs including labor fuel and utilities incurred as a result of weather.
Additionally we benefited from alternative fuel tax credits of approximately $6 million in the prior year.
As we discussed on our last earnings call in February this credit expired which resulted in a 30 basis point EBITDA margin headwind in the first quarter of 2014.
These margin headwinds are isolated to our first quarter performance.
During the first quarter we recorded a pretax charge of approximately $36 million or $0.06 of EPS related to an increase in estimated remediation costs at Bridgeton Landfill.
During the quarter it became necessary to upgrade the design and capacity of the [unintelligible] Treatment Facility which will increase total construction costs.
The impact of this charge was excluded from adjusted EPS in the first quarter and our expected adjusted EPS for the full year.
Ed will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Glenn.
First quarter 2014 interest expense was $87 million which included $11 million of noncash amortization.
Our first quarter effective tax rate was 39.8% of adjusted earnings and in line with our expectations.
Our effective tax rate of 33.4% in Q1 of the prior year was favorably impacted by closing our open tax years under audit.
The change in tax rate was expected but resulted in a $0.05 EPS headwind compared to our prior year performance.
First quarter 2014 adjusted free cash flow was $186 million which was in line with our expectations.
Net capital expenditures during the quarter were $213 million.
At March 31 our accounts receivable balance was $873 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at March 31 and excess availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.5 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Ed.
To conclude our first quarter results keep us on track to achieve the goals and objectives we established for 2014 and we remain comfortable with our full year guidance.
The fundamentals of the business remain strong and we are well-positioned to take advantage of an improving economy.
We built our plan assuming the positive momentum exiting 2013 would continue and we believe underlying business conditions are improving as expected.
We remain focused on managing the business for the long term and creating lasting shareholder value.
Our team remains dedicated to providing superior customer service and executing our strategy to deliver consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
We are committed to an efficient capital structure maintaining our investment grade rating and increasing cash returns to shareholders.
Before going to Q&amp;A I would like to personally congratulate three Republic employees for being selected as this year’s drivers of the year by the National Waste and Recycling Association.
The three drivers are being honored for their outstanding customer service and safety records and were chosen out of 908 nominations from across the U.S.
As this award is our industry’s highest honor I’m proud that once again Republic secured all three of the coveted award categories.
Congratulations Tino [unintelligible] and Johnny.
We look forward to celebrating your achievements with you next week at Waste Expo.
At this time operator I’d like to open the call to questions.
[Operator instructions.] Your final question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Credit Suisse.
Just a question on volumes.
Maybe you could give us a sense of any early read you have into seasonality.
Are we going to see above normal seasonality based on what you’re seeing in volumes today? I realize it may be a little too early.
And then by the same token maybe you could touch on how much landfill volumes were up as well if I missed that.
I will tell you that Q2 we’re off to a really good start in April looking at a continuation of what we saw with specifically roll off C&amp;D and special waste has been strong for us.
So again to your point it is a little bit too early to judge seasonality.
We usually like to have May under our belt before we can start to judge that.
But we’re off to a good start in April.
As far as landfill volume overall we had a strong C&amp;D and MSW but total landfill volume was plus 4%.
But special waste led the way as Glenn said up about 14%.
So we lost some MSW volume.
We’ve had some competitive losses so about 1.6% decline over last year in trash coming into landfills based on competitive pricing.
And just a follow up question.
I think you’re less than 3x net debt to EBITDA levered.
There are a lot of larger assets out there that are private.
I know historically you’ve spoken about this steady $100 million tuck-in sort of acquisition diet.
Could you maybe just comment on how comfortable you are in taking leverage up? I know we did that in the Republic-Allied deal.
How comfortable are you in taking leverage up to what level to do something larger that makes sense? Well we’ve always said I think our sweet spot is between 2.5x and 3x.
So we’d like to keep it there.
We’re right now at 3x.
We do look at larger deals and right now we are focused and have been on the small tuck-ins because they come at the right multiple post-synergy and they also have less risk as far as integration goes.
We do look at larger transactions and we do have flexibility in our balance sheet to do things whether we can do that using our revolver or if we had to flex the stock repurchase.
We’re just looking at it from what’s accretive and what brings us the best returns.
So if you look at our stock trading at 8.5 for us it kind of comes down to that.
Would we rather spend 8.5x EBITDA buying into a company we know and love that is Republic? Or do we want to put that money at risk? And we certainly aren’t going to be paying 9x or 9.5x for EBITDA.
So if we can buy good free cash flow at the right multiple we’re going to do that and we’re going to consistently look at larger deals.
And they do come across our radar every now and then but we’ve got to be disciplined in our purchasing strategy.
And the limit on our credit facility as far as the covenant test is debt to EBITDA of 3.5x so again we’re an investment grade credit.
Our credit metrics are consistent with that type of a credit rating and the credit facility does have a limit in debt to EBITDA in order to ensure that type of a rating.
The next question that I show comes from Derek Sbrogna with Macquarie.
Just wanted to drill in a little bit here on the weather.
The $0.02 impact can you maybe talk a little bit more about where you see the lost revenue opportunities and also I know you framed out the three areas where costs have increased.
If you could maybe provide some additional color on why those costs go up in poorer weather? Well weather specifically.
We had some really severe weather in parts of the country that we normally budget weather in places like Chicago and Detroit.
But this was pretty harsh weather if you live there.
We had brutal cold and we had snow day on day.
And then we saw weather in parts of the country we don’t normally budget for weather.
We don’t budget for snow in Atlanta and places like that.
So when you have weather like that we have two things happen.
We have loss of revenue from garbage not moving to our landfills or us not hauling roll off loads from businesses that aren’t operating.
You have some pickup from the fact that some days you don’t run your trucks.
But then when you have to come back and pick up where you left off and make up for that lost time you’re paying a lot of overtime.
And you have frankly in some of the really brutal weather things tend to break when it’s subzero for many days in a row.
You know steel gets brittle and your maintenance costs go up those kind of things.
So again I know we’re not the only company out there beyond the waste industry that’s had to talk about weather and so we’re not using that as an excuse.
We just wanted to point it out that we did have some impact.
And frankly a solid $0.02 from a half cost and half revenue loss but I think that frames out the fact that we’re really positive on the underlying fundamentals of the business units and as to the question I answered from Hamzah we’ve got a good start here in April and we think the underlying fundamentals are strong.
And maybe just one more.
You’ve seen a couple of consecutive quarters here of the strength in specialty waste.
I know that there’s been some easier comps and maybe that business can be lumpy.
But can you talk about the environment you’re seeing in those markets and whether some of the pickup is really indicative of you guys winning business or whether it’s just indicative of a strengthening environment.
I would say it’s new volume.
We talk about how our business tends to lag the economy both on the downside and the return.
And we would tell you that as we see special waste volumes returning it is an indicative sign of better economy to come.
When companies are releasing bids for special waste cleanups it’s because they’ve got confidence in their own capital budgets.
And a lot of times the special waste is land clearing for new construction so that bodes well for what’s to come.
So we’ve got a strong market in special waste and C&amp;D and we’re just waiting for that to lead the way for a stronger return in commercial.
Next is from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
First a question on the brokered recycling volume.
I understand that that’s [unintelligible] because of slow capex but it is suppressing EBITDA margins so it would be helpful to understand just what is happening without that in it.
The 50 basis point decrease that I think Glenn talked about from that particular [unintelligible] is that the right way to think about this that EBITDA margin would have been 50 basis points higher if it weren’t for the growth in that business? The national accounts brokered volumes would account for a 30 basis point decrease in our margins in the quarter.
And the reason for it really is we’re required to book the full amount of the revenue and the full amount of the costs even though in many cases we’re not even handling the product.
And so it’s really just a pass through but we have to record both the revenues and the costs gross.
And I know the dynamic kind of contrasting internal growth components you versus Waste there’s nothing new but because it was almost the sole focus of Waste’s call earlier I just want to ask.
The fact that you’re reporting better volume and lower on yield than Waste Management how much do you attribute that to philosophy versus the markets you’re in and do you expect that to change with this next generation ROI pricing tool that you’re talking about? That’s a big question so I’ll give you some color.
One we don’t focus primarily just on yield metric.
There’s a lot more to consider when you think about where you want to grow your business and how you want to balance price and volume.
So we’re trying to give both positive price and volume in our business and of course we’re focused on return on invested capital.
So when it comes to where we’ll walk away from business we want to walk away from business when it’s not profitable when it doesn’t give us an appropriate return.
We want to retain business that gives us the appropriate return even if it is a competitive bidding type of a situation.
So we take two very different views.
One in the post-collection business.
We have consistently raised prices in the landfill business and consistently let volume go that didn’t meet our pricing expectations.
Those landfills are expensive to own and operate and we feel that they should carry a higher price component of growth every year.
So as I said we actually saw more defection in our landfill business in Q1 1.6% volume loss and all that volume loss because they found a better price somewhere else.
So a little different view in the hauling side as I said.
In our commercial business that density really matters and it’s a very profitable part of our business.
So when we’re in a competitive situation over a current customer we’re going to try to keep that customer if it’s profitable and has the right return.
Now we’re growing our rollup business because that part of the business is starting to come back.
And while some might argue that that part of the business has a lower return than other parts of the business the fact is our job is to grow free cash flow and deploy capital at the appropriate terms.
So we’re growing that business and we’re getting both price and volume in the rollup system.
So we’re seeing margins expand because of the demand.
So we think our team’s doing a good job of balancing both price and volume.
Remember that we’ve got 7% defection in our business so if we do nothing our business shrinks 7% a year.
And so we’ve got to replace that volume.
About half of that 7% is competitive.
The other half is structural but we’ve got to replace that volume to stay flat.
In fact you’ve got to replace that volume plus in order to stay flat because we’ve had this conversation probably a number of times Corey.
If you’re losing business for competitive price you’re losing it at a higher than average price and if you’re gaining business at market prices it’s generally coming in slightly below.
So another thing to point out is I think our pricing’s pretty strong.
We have 3.2% core price and that includes 4.2% in the open market.
So we’re out there pricing pretty consistently in the open market every month.
And as you know we really control that pricing movement from a corporate office our pricing team working with the local divisions pushing out those pricing programs month after month.
You know every market about a 12th of the market every month that we’re reviewing customer cost and pricing and passing that into the market.
So I think we’re doing a good job.
The think you mentioned about the new pricing tool what that’s going to do for us it’s a technology solution frankly that brings some better control and user friendliness to our frontline sales people so that we’re going to try to work harder to control that point of sale pricing and help those sales people make better decisions at the front end.
So a lot of the things that we’re doing at Republic are focused in and around improving yield.
And I would say it more improving the quality of revenue and improving the decision making about how we quote business and how we prove to the customer that our value proposition is better.
I spoke in my comments about customer service about launching the user portal the thing we call My Resource.
So whatever we can do around here to improve that quality of revenue that quality of the product to the customer increase their willingness to pay that’s where we’re living and breathing here.
But we believe that you’ve got to balance that volume and price growth.
As long as you’ve got a keen eye in and around a returns-based philosophy we think it’s the right thing to do for cash and ultimately for long term returns in the business.
Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets your line is open.
Don it sounds like you guys are getting pretty close to getting over the hump on One Fleet at about 47% installed.
I think comps get a bit easier in Q2 on the maintenance and repair side.
Are you still thinking that mid to late 2014 One Fleet starts to pay for itself? Yeah when half the fleet is certified and no longer causing that cost [unintelligible] wave we’ll start seeing more and more benefits from the first half of the fleet.
Again improved productivity less downtime better customer service driver engagement scores improve in the business.
So we’re still positive about the process.
Again this is a really big change initiative as we’ve talked about and it’s kind of slow going but the deeper we get into it the more committed we are to it.
It’s the right thing to do.
It’s going to pay us back.
And then of course over and above that just running a better business having a stronger operation and a better customer service reliability we’re going to have that reduced capex over the long term.
So we’re committed to getting more out of our fleet and beginning to reduce capex in 2015 by $40 to $50 million a year over a four or five year period.
No I certainly get the benefits of it.
Maybe just to dig into the numbers a little bit and I get that Q1 maintenance and repair expenses probably were somewhat inflated by weather but should we start to think about that year over year increase in maintenance from repair leveling off? Or even declining on a year over year basis? Well we’ll just try to put it into the context of this.
The three initiatives that we’ve got going on in our cost and productivity are One Fleet our C&amp;D and our automation.
They’re worth about 100 basis points over a three-year period.
So that’s the way we’d have you look at it and we’re going to have better science around this as we get into it and ultimately we’re going to get really good at understanding the efficient frontier of our fleet and tweaking our maintenance even further.
But more of our stand today is that 1% across those three initiatives of operating costs over a three-year period.
I just want to as one very high level question for you.
It seems like there’s been several states out there that have added recycling mandates recent which I guess I find it a bit interesting because at the same time you have waste firms like yourself that are pushing back and even rationalizing some recycling assets.
So I guess what would you tell us? How should we think about reconciling the difference between what customers are saying versus what vendors are doing right now.
It just seems like you guys are kind of moving in opposite directions.
I guess start with we don’t think recycling is going away.
We think it’s core to our business and we recognize the customer demand.
At the same time we’re in the business to turn a profit and we need to expand our business services to meet customer needs as long as they bring the appropriate return.
So again Glenn mentioned that we’ve rationalized a couple of assets.
We closed a couple of facilities because they weren’t bringing us the proper return.
It really is a market by market basis.
So we’ve got 240 markets across our 40 states.
California is not going to change.
They’re going to continue to have very strong recycling goals and they’ve got teeth in those goals.
Consequently they’ve also got a lot of money to spend in education and the recycling is much more a part of the social conscience there.
There are other states that are similar to that.
There are some states that have increased their goals but they really haven’t put any teeth around that.
It comes down to regulation it comes down to density participation rates and ultimately for us it’s got to come down to can we create a decent return? And in some markets we think we’ll be able to have a good return on recycling.
In other markets we won’t.
And consequently we won’t do it or we’ll do it through a third party.
In some cases we have a network of third parties that we use their facilities and so forth because we don’t want to make that investment just yet.
So we’re just taking a very disciplined approach.
I think it’s a slow mover.
It’s probably moving a little quicker than it was 10 years ago but I think our approach has been pretty rational.
It seems that the industry seems rational today and there have been some companies that grew from nothing in recycling over the years but they don’t tend to stick around very long.
We look at this thing over the 10 year cycle so when we make those investments we look at what are these commodities worth over the long term.
Next comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions.
On the volume side looking at your key geographies and the parts of the country where you weren’t impacted by weather as much was there a notable difference in volume trends there relative to the northeast/southeast during the quarter? I think we had pretty good volumes kind of across the board but the west did a great job for us.
They didn’t have weather.
So our west region is Texas to California and up to Oregon/Washington.
So not a lot of weather impact.
Good economic recovery.
We’ve got a very good landfill network in the west.
A good special waste quarter for us there and if we look at those underlying trends there and that’s what gives us a lot of confidence in just the overall fundamentals of the business.
So as I said weather is kind of out of the way now.
April is starting off very strong and we’ve got a lot of confidence going forward.
And then on the recycling side there’s been some volatility in the recycling paper commodity prices.
They went up materially in March and then we gave it back in April.
Do you have any visibility into what recycled paper commodities will do over the next couple of months? Any thoughts around that? I would just tell you flat.
I wish I had a crystal ball then I would know when to bet on the Bears again.
But flat I think from our perspective.
That’s fair.
And just a last one from me.
Can you update us on the Southern California market with Puente Hills now being closed for more than six months? Anything incremental and interesting there? We have the closest landfill in the heart of the market.
Consequently we have probably the highest price landfill in the market as far as our rates and our rates to customers.
So when that landfill closed a lot of that volume went to Orange County.
They took the volume at a reduced rate built a transfer station there at La Puente.
And we did not really benefit from any volume and any volume that we would get would come at higher rates to sort of work within our current rate structure.
We’re not looking at discounting there in L.A.
to attract cheap volume.
Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich your line is open.
Service intervals you alluded that you were seeing positive service interval changes.
And then you shared in several of your answers areas like the western region and the volume trends.
It seems through the breadth of the call so far there’s this sentiment of just fundamental volume improvement occurring.
And no hockey sticks but just an overall trend that’s moving in the right direction.
Is that how I’m supposed to interpret some of the things you said? Yeah I would say we’re very positive.
No hockey stick that’s important.
Everyone would like to think that there’s some inflection point because everything’s going to kind of happen at once.
We don’t see that happening.
A lot of good momentum albeit slow we think specifically for Republic.
We’re doing a lot of the right things.
We’re improving the core business we’re working on costs we’re working on our panel agenda we’re focused on the customer.
We’re doing a lot of good things to improve the business and the economy is responding better than it has in previous years.
So a lot of good trends and that’s why I said we’re comfortable in confirming our guidance.
We’re strong on the cash flow.
We’re buying back our stock.
We’re very positive on that so all in all we felt we had a really good quarter and we think we’re going to finish the year right on track.
You have a 28.5% to 29% EBITDA guidance.
So we’re reaffirming that for full year 28.5% to 29%.
So to do that is your pricing covering inflation at this point? I’m trying to figure that out.
The price you report are we covering inflation at this point? Your inflation.
Remember we’ve got to go out and get better price in the open market to do that.
So I would tell you we’re comfortable with what’s going on in our commercial open market business our industrial business.
Our residential business continues to be a drag for us.
That’s been a real low spot for us the state municipal finance the condition of those cities.
We’re taking a harder stand on some of these renewals.
They want us to deploy more and more capital and if you look at some of these recent bids that have been on the Street they want every kind of automation and every kind of recycling and the capital intensity is growing but their willingness to pay is not.
So we’re taking a different position there.
So we’re going to have to work a little harder to get the cost recovery out of those residential contracts that are only giving us 1.5% CPI.
But you know we’re trying to make up for it in other parts of the business.
So we do think the pricing environment is improving subtly not CPI necessarily but the open market.
And we’re going to continue to try to improve the quality of our products and services to earn more from the customers.
And that translates into disposal pricing as well? Well yeah I’m not so sure how much more we can do to improve our quality in the landfills for disposal customers.
I think it just comes down to what’s available in the marketplace.
And we’ve consistently raised our prices at landfills and we’ve consistently lost volume at landfills.
So that’s okay with us because we think those assets are so critical.
So over time I think as I said probably many times as the general consumer sentiment improves as general volumes improve I think competition behavior improves I think that speaks well to pricing overall and hopefully disposal pricing as well.
And Michael remember we discussed in the call that we had 60 basis points of margin headwind in the first quarter that will not recur during the rest of the year.
So essentially what we’re looking at is with the current low CPI environment flat margin performance year over year when you look at ’14 full year compared to 2013.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Just to follow up on that the 60 basis points of headwind is that the remediation? No that was the impact of weather.
It was about 30 basis points.
And in Q1 of 2013 we had a benefit of an alternative fuel tax credit which obviously goes through the fuel expense line.
So the combination of those two items the 60 basis points unique to the first quarter of this year and not rolling into the second quarter.
And Don just on this whole pricing dynamic and I appreciate some of the comments and responses you’ve had here on the landfill side realizing the market is local are you suggesting or implying that you’re on average having trouble - maybe that’s the wrong word - raising price at the landfill because it is deflecting volume away? Well we lost 1.6% volume in MSW at the landfill and they were all pricing related losses.
One specifically was a bid at a municipality and others were individual customers.
So we’re going to continue to raise landfill prices.
Again landfills are expensive to own and operate.
They need to be able to handle year on year price increases that cover those additional costs.
And so we’re going to continue to do that.
We can’t subsidize other people in the business by lowering landfill rates.
Can’t do that.
And so that’s the way we’ve approached our infrastructure for many years and we’re going to continue to do that.
And then on the volume side I’m sorry I joined the call a little late the number was what it is in the first quarter but the trend here is a little bit more headwind in the back half of the year or comps relative to the back half of 2013? Our guidance for the full year on volume was 1.5% to 2% so I would say we’re tracking right within our expectations.
And then finally it sounded like you said earlier that the open market pricing is trending up not necessarily accelerating but there’s net improvement in the overall price environment? Well I think we expect it to continue to improve through the year.
We’ve relied as we said at the beginning of the year when we gave guidance we’re going to have to rely on the open market to carry a little bit more pricing than it did last year in light of the low CPI environment in the rest of our index business.
And we think that’s going to be the case.
As I said we’ll get 4.2% core pricing in the open market as a component of that 3.2% core.
So we’re consistently out in the market looking to improve the quality of revenue.
Some of those through pricing actions for existing customers as well as the pricing structure that we’re using to bid on new business.
The next question comes from Tony Bancroft with Gabelli.
Quick question on any update with municipal contracts? I saw the news with the Los Angeles last week.
Anything there as far as new trends or color there? No.
Are you talking about the City of L.A.
on Puente? The Los Angeles contract where they decided to break it up into I think 11… Yeah they’re going to franchise that.
So we’re involved in that process.
There’s a limited number of sections of the city that you’re able to win.
We’re going to be a part of that process.
We expect that because of our capability and the location of our landfill that we’ll fare okay in that process.
And it’s a little ways away yet but we’re knee deep into it and that’s all I can report for now.
But we’ll keep you updated as we get a little further down the road.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
All right thank you operator.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence in creating the Republic Way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Delghiaccio.
Good afternoon Mr.
Delghiaccio.
Good afternoon Holly.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
This is Brian Delghiaccio and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; Glenn Culpepper our CFO; and Ed Lang Senior Vice President of Finance are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is July 24 2014.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings; our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables; and a discussion of business activities along with the recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Brian and good afternoon everyone.
We are pleased with our second quarter results which include strong revenue growth margin improvement and substantial cash returns.
Our 2014 business plan assumed industry fundamentals would continue to improve which we have seen in our year-to-date performance.
Our second quarter results were in line with our expectations and we remain on track to achieve the financial guidance we established for 2014.
Some of the financial highlights include: second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.51.
The second quarter benefited approximately $0.01 due to a slightly lower tax rate.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $247 million and in line with our expectations.
This level of performance includes approximately 60% of our projected full year capital expenditures.
Core price in the second quarter was 3.1% and average yield was 1.4%.
Average yield increased sequentially due to stronger pricing in our open markets.
The restricted portion of our business continues to reflect the relatively low CPI environment.
Second quarter volumes increased 2.6%.
Volume growth was concentrated to C&amp;D roll-off permanent industrial National Accounts and landfill special waste.
Commercial service change levels were positive in the second quarter and increased sequentially.
This is a continuation of a trend that began in mid-2013.
We returned $217 million to shareholders during the quarter through share repurchases and dividends.
This includes 3.6 million shares repurchased for $124 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased approximately 7.5 million shares for $256 million.
We expect to spend approximately $400 million on share repurchases in 2014.
Our Board recently increased the quarterly dividend to $0.28 an increase of approximately 8%.
This is consistent with our historical practice of raising the dividend in the mid- to high-single digit range.
During the quarter we continued to make progress on our multi-year initiatives that enable us to execute our strategy.
We are focused on managing the controllable aspects of our business by improving the quality of revenue investing in profitable growth opportunities and reducing costs.
For example during the second quarter we begun rolling out our next-generation ROI-based pricing tool known as Capture.
This tablet-based tool standardizes the quote-to-proposal process enables better controls at the point-of-sale improves the efficiency and effectiveness of our sales force and provides a better experience for our customers.
Additionally we continue to implement priority-based selling or PBS our new standardized sales process.
PBS focuses on delivering stronger more effective interactions with customer segments that value our service and are willing to pay for enhanced offerings.
Both Capture and priority-based selling were designed to work together on the same cloud-based platform to integrate the process of identifying the right type of volume growth at attractive prices.
We expect a full rollout by the end of 2015.
Last week we launched the My Resource mobile app an expansion of our customer's online account management tool.
The My Resource app allows customers to schedule a pickup view their service schedule receive holiday schedule reminders and push notifications including weather-related service alerts and to pay their bill.
These capabilities further differentiate our service offering and increase value to customers.
The year-to-date investment made in acquisitions was $55 million.
We acquired approximately $28 million of revenue at post-synergy EBITDA multiples of 5x.
These tuck-in acquisitions layer in well to existing markets.
Regarding our fleet 13% is currently operating on natural gas 67% of our residential fleet is now automated and approximately 1/2 of the fleet has completed our One Fleet Maintenance initiative.
We remain confident that we can cost-effectively extend the useful life of our fleet beginning in 2015.
We estimate this will reduce future capital requirements by $200 million spread over a 4- to 5-year period.
I'm proud of our achievements during the second quarter and remain encouraged by the underlying strength of the business.
I want to thank the entire Republic team for their hard work and execution.
Glenn and Brian will now discuss our financial performance.
Glenn? Thanks Don.
Second quarter 2014 revenue was approximately $2.2 billion an increase of $114 million from the prior year.
This 5.4% increase in revenue includes acquisitions of 60 basis points and reflects the following 3 components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First pricing.
We had an average yield growth of 1.4%.
Second quarter average yield was up 20 basis points sequentially and in line with our expectations.
Core price in the second quarter was 3.1%.
This consisted of 4.2% in the open market and 1.4% in our restricted business.
Average yield in the collection business was 1.4% which includes 2.4% in the industrial business and 1.7% in the commercial business.
Average yield in the post-collection business was also 1.4% led by landfill MSW which increased approximately 2%.
Fuel recovery fees increased 0.2%.
Most of this change relates to an increase in the rate charged to recover fuel costs.
Fuel costs increased approximately $5 million compared to the prior year but decreased 10 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
The average price per gallon of diesel increased to $3.94 in the second quarter from $3.88 in the prior year an increase of 1.4%.
The current average diesel price is $3.89 per gallon.
Second volumes increased 2.6% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive 1.9% primarily due to an increase in industrial volume.
Growth in the industrial line of business was 6.3% and includes C&amp;D and other temporary activity which was up 9.6%.
Volume in the commercial business was up 1.3% and residential was down 1%.
The decline in residential was primarily due to contracts lost in bid situations.
We will only renew business if it meets our return criteria.
The post-collection business consisting of third-party landfill and transfer station volume was positive 5.2% which includes an increase in landfill special waste of approximately 19%.
Special waste volumes -- landfill volumes were lower in the second quarter of 2013 which resulted in an easier comparison.
Our landfill MSW volumes were flat with the prior year.
Our defection rate which represents the annualized rate of customer turnover remained stable at approximately 7%.
Third commodity revenue increased 60 basis points.
The increase in commodity sales reflects an increase in tons sold partially offset by a decline in recycled commodity prices.
Commodity prices decreased 2% to an average of $108 per ton in the second quarter from $110 per ton in the prior year.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $111 per ton.
Second quarter recycling facility volume of 626 000 tons was up 13.2% from the prior year.
Most of the increase relates to additional National Accounts brokered volumes.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities increased $13 million compared to the prior year an increase of 50 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Again most of the increase relates to additional National Accounts brokered volumes.
Now I will discuss year-over-year margin.
Second quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.4% compared to 27.6% in the prior year an improvement of 80 basis points.
The change is made up of a favorable decrease in SG&amp;A expenses of 90 basis points partially offset by a 10 basis point increase in cost of operations.
The reduction in SG&amp;A expenses primarily relates to $17 million of legal charges recorded in the prior year.
Second quarter 2014 SG&amp;A expense was in line with our expectations at 9.9% of revenue.
The change in cost of operations primarily relates to increases in transportation expenses subcontract costs and cost of goods sold partially offset by favorable reductions in direct labor and risk management expenses.
The increase in transportation costs primarily relates to growth at landfill special waste where third-party transportation was used to deliver the volume.
The increase in subcontract costs and cost of goods sold primarily relates to growth in the outsourced portion of our National Accounts business and recycled commodity volumes that we've brokered on behalf of our customers.
The favorable reduction in risk management expense relates to a reduction in ultimate claim costs.
Our risk group has been able to favorably settle claims as compared to the actual -- actuarial reserves recorded.
Finally the improvement in labor primarily relates to the mix of volume growth.
The increase in landfill special waste and outsourced National Accounts has very little incremental labor.
I would like to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Brian will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Glenn.
Second quarter 2014 interest expense was $87 million which included $11 million of non-cash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 38.5% of adjusted earnings in the second quarter and 39.1% on a year-to-date basis.
We expect an effective tax rate of approximately 39.5% in the second half of the year.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $247 million which was in line with our expectations.
Net capital expenditures during this period were $482 million or approximately 60% of our projected full year spend.
Free cash flow can fluctuate by period due to the timing of capital expenditures cash tax payments and working capital.
At June 30 our accounts receivable balance was $933 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7.1 billion at June 30 and excess availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.6 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Brian.
To conclude our second quarter results keep us on track to achieve the goals and objectives we established for 2014.
We remain comfortable with our full year guidance of adjusted EPS of $1.93 to $1.98 and adjusted free cash flow of $675 million to $725 million.
The fundamentals of the business remain solid and trends continue to improve as expected.
We see strong open market pricing which is offsetting lower CPI-based resets; organic volume growth driving margin expansion in our large container industrial and landfill businesses; service level increases in our small container commercial business; continued progress on our multi-year initiatives to mitigate cost inflation in the business; and a healthy pipeline of accretive acquisitions.
Our team is dedicated to providing superior customer service and executing our strategy to deliver consistent earnings and cash flow growth.
We remain committed to an efficient capital structure maintaining our investment-grade rating and increasing cash returns to our shareholders.
At this time operator I'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question does come from Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on volumes.
Don maybe you could comment on if you saw above normal or normal seasonality in volumes during the quarter.
Historically you folks have raised guidance at Q2 the majority of time.
Is -- do volumes -- do commercial volumes need to get better for you to raise guidance or -- any commentary around volumes and sort of your reiteration versus raise of guidance which you've done historically most of the time.
I'll start with your first question.
I think seasonality was normal.
So we're pretty confident in the trajectory of the business.
Our estimates -- the guidance as we entered into the year we expected to see the economy improving and we're seeing that.
We thought we would see it approved -- accrue first in the C&amp;D business and we're seeing that both in the landfill and on the roll-off side of the business.
We expected that open market pricing would be stronger and we would actually move more strongly in the open market for price to offset some of the pressure we're seeing in the municipal side of our business.
So most of that is happening pretty consistent with what we expected.
So we're comfortable with the range of guidance for the rest of the year and we'll update you further when we get to Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up question on the margin side.
You've talked about a 100 bps expansion from CNG fleet automation and the One Maintenance initiative.
Is -- could you give us a sense of -- is that front-end loaded? Is that going to be pretty linear going forward? And longer term as most of the margin expansion should we expect that to come from price given that over the last few years since the downturn you've taken out a lot of costs and you were already pretty lean to begin with? Thanks.
It's a great question.
Yes.
The 3 operating initiatives: Fleet -- One Fleet CNG and automation we said is going to be 75 to 100 bps of operating margin improvement over 3 years.
And think about that being probably more mid- to back-end loaded because it takes a while to get these things up and going.
And as you know the One Fleet initiative has a lot of front-loaded costs to get through that initiative and get it rolled out.
But we're on track and we're very happy with the results we're seeing there.
As far as the margin yes we've said all along that it's going to take price in excess of normal inflation.
And so that CPI headwind has been hurting us over the last couple of years but we've kept the margin strong.
We think as CPI normalizes again and we think it will that we will continue to see margin expansion and we're going to hopefully see continued strong pricing in the open market.
So we're comfortable with the guidance.
We think the margins have held up nicely.
And we think over time as CPI improves and pricing improves along with it that we can push the margins a little higher.
Our next question comes from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> Don so it sounds like the tone of business is improving.
You got what sounds like a nice benefit -- a year-over-year benefit from special waste in the quarter.
Can you help us think through how sustainable that is and what the internal growth assumptions are baked into your reiterated EPS guidance? Yes I'll let one of these other guys talk about the internal growth assumption baked in.
I'll talk to you about the special waste.
The bulk of the special waste year-over-year improvement is coming out of event-driven job so soil in which to me that business is a little bit lumpy.
But we've got a good pipeline of special waste that we're looking at for the future quarters.
So we think that's going to be consistent throughout the rest of the year.
And the good news there for me is that that soil clearing -- or that soil removal tends to be kind of a precursor to construction land clearing.
And so we just think it's another positive sign of economic growth and potentially more construction.
So we think that's a good thing.
And then our E&amp;P business held up pretty well as well.
We do receive some material from a various number of drilling sites at our landfills.
So that has been pretty consistent for us as well.
Going forward Corey the special waste has grown for the last 4 quarters in a row and the last 3 have been double-digit growth rates.
So we expect growth in the second half to be muted because we have tougher comparisons there.
It really took off in the second half of 2013.
And so from here on out the comparisons on special waste will be tougher.
Research Division</strong> And applying that to the overall guidance Glenn so we should expect the volume growth to be more muted in the back half? So I'm talking about overall volume growth not just special waste.
Overall yes we're sticking with our guidance of 1.5% to 2% volume growth for the full year.
Yes.
So the volume's there it's just a comp against last year.
That's all.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And just one more if I could on the -- what commodity price assumption are you baking into the guidance? And how -- what's the EPS impact of -- if you are baking in lower commodity prices versus what you might have assumed at the beginning of the year? Yes it's relatively flat Corey.
So remember in the beginning of the year we were guiding to the full year of $110 per ton.
And in the second quarter we were right at about $108 so relatively in line with where we thought we'd be.
The next question comes from Scott Levine with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> So drilling down a little bit more on the impact of index-based pricing.
I know most of your resets a large chunk of them occur here either midyear or in Q3.
Should we expect based on the inflation information to-date that you're seeing a step-down step-up? What should we be thinking about the index side of the business going forward based on past inflation rates? Yes Scott the inflation rate in 2013 CPI was 1.5%.
So we would be seeing a bigger impact of that in the second half of 2014.
So we'll be stepping down.
Now the more recent CPIs have been in the 2% range.
We'll see where that goes for the remainder of the year.
But if we get a higher CPI for the rest of this year we'll see that impact in 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And as a follow-up on the cash flow.
The dividend raise here I think in the last couple of years has been a step-up in terms of rate of increase from years prior.
Can you help us understand a little bit how you think about that from a payout ratio perspective and thoughts on what you would favor either the dividend or the buyback going forward based -- or following against the dividend increase here today? Yes.
So one we're not managing to a yield goal and we think that the payout ratio that we have today is pretty consistent and will stay pretty consistent through time.
We've said now for many years that we think the business as it grows can support a dividend increase in the mid- to high-single digit year-over-year.
So think of a 6% to 8% kind of dividend increase year-on-year.
That's pretty consistent with our 3- and 5-year CAGR as we look at the business today.
And that's the way to look at it.
We think this balanced approach of free cash flow having some availability to grow the business through acquisition and then spending the remainder on that kind of split somewhat evenly between dividend and buyback is the right way to go and that's what we're committed to.
Next question is from Derek Sbrogna with Macquarie.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about what you're seeing on the residential side.
I know in the past you've talked about this kind of being a drag and the customers wanting to see -- wanting to get more out of the service provider without a willingness to pay.
Has this stalled at all -- or do you still foresee this as being a drag as we go forward here in what seems to be an improving environment? Well the main drag on residential overall is the CPI piece.
If you think about our overall business our industrial business is performing very well growing units growing revenue per unit expanding margins.
Our commercial business volumes are modestly increased margins kind of remained flat.
We're looking for the more service increases to develop as we can start to sort of build density into that business.
The residential line of business has been our drag.
Some of that is just CPI and we're going to work our way through that.
Some of that is the customer demand for increased services.
But I would say that we feel better about it today than we did 6 months ago.
Anecdotally we're seeing a little different behavior out there.
I think people are being a little more stingy with their CapEx.
These are very expensive contracts to get involved in.
Fully automated trucks 3-cart systems CNG.
The capital outlay for resi contracts is large.
And so we've stepped back a little bit too.
And so we're looking -- as Glenn said in his comments we're not going to do business unless it's for the right return.
And so we're pushing back a little bit.
And I think anecdotally our team would say that the environment is probably improving slightly from that perspective.
It hasn't shown up in the numbers yet.
But as CPI improves and haulers understand the full cost of running these contracts I think overall the pricing and the reset environment will improve too.
Okay great.
And that's actually a good segue into a follow-up in terms of ensuring that business meets a good return.
Can you maybe provide a little bit more detail on the next-generation ROI-based tool? Just kind of where you are in the roll-out process how it differs from the prior version? And then maybe more specifically if this is being managed at a corporate level or at a field level? Yes great.
So the one thing that's very much the same is it's ROI-based.
So the old tool that we've used for years was a lot more manual more sort of spreadsheet-driven.
This is a cloud-based software that we frankly administrate from the corporate office.
And so when we talk about having better control of the pricing decisions at the field level that's one of the main benefits.
So we're very focused here on quality revenue.
How do we -- as we grow revenue as we grow volume how do we grow quality of revenue quality of units.
And so we've got a lot of transactions happening out there everyday.
We've got this 7% defection.
We have to replace those units in the market through new-new growth or competitive growth.
We want to make sure that every new unit coming into the system is priced at the very best level.
And so this tool is as I said a tablet-based tool or an iPad-based tool that our salespeople can go to the market with.
It allows them to basically enter the customer's data to segment the customer understanding what kind of a customer they are and what they might be willing to pay for.
It helps them make better decisions.
It helps them be more efficient with their -- making their sales calls.
And actually as I said on the call it actually improves the customer experience.
So all of that is aimed at improving quality of revenue and improving the efficiency of our sales force and then ultimately still improving the experience for our customers.
So we're pretty excited about it.
We're through a couple of markets.
Right now we've done the pilots to basically get the system rolled out and initiate the training kind of tweak it a little bit and we're going to be rolling it out as I said through the end of 2015.
A lot of that will be done this year.
But having it rolled out and then having it fully utilized and all the training completed and having sort of that Rule of 78 start to work for you because this is really aimed at the replacement of the 7% defection the new sales so to speak.
So -- and then we'll use the tool to price service increases and decreases as well.
But it puts all the power in the salespeople's hands to be more efficient but it puts the control in our hands here.
So we set pricing parameters at corporate with the assistance of our local management teams but we have the ability to set thresholds and benchmarks.
And when we make adjustments here basically because it's a cloud-based system those adjustments can basically -- and those new pricing limits and thresholds can be instituted in the field virtually overnight.
Next question is from Michael Hoffman with Stifel (sic) [Wunderlich].
Research Division</strong> In the gory details in the margin data there is in fact a positive move in labor and fuel.
Am I overreaching when I say that you're starting to see here some tiny little benefit from all this work in automation and CNG and One Fleet? No we're seeing the benefits.
I would tell you that as we look at the quarter June looked better than the first 2 months of the quarter as related to those 2 line items you mentioned.
So we're anxious to see those things kind of flow into July and into Q3.
But the system is working.
We're seeing the benefit.
We are facing -- the fleet complexity has increased pretty dramatically as we've been buying all these CNG trucks and automated trucks and all the new clean diesel technology over the last several years.
That's impacting us a little bit.
So that's one of the benefits of having One Fleet out there is it helps us maintain that more complex fleet better than we would have without One Fleet.
So we're on track.
As I said in my comments we're going to come over the hill here and we'll see the benefits in the business not only in those 2 line items but we'll see driver productivity we'll see driver morale and turnover impacted positively.
We'll see better customer service as a result.
And then ultimately we're going to get this fleet benefit as we very methodically and intelligently get more life out of our fleet.
So we're feeling pretty good about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- I can't remember who was framing this but I have this sense I should think about first half versus second half and if you sort of have an average revenue growth of call it mid to upper 4% in -- for that first half the second half clearly is slightly lower because CPI has come down volume comp.
But is there -- so I'm kind of trying to understand the gauge of that.
I mean is it sort of 50 basis points? And then the other question in that is if this trend in volume is coming through in service upgrades is the scope of your rollbacks starting -- are they narrowing too? So maybe there's -- that's a cushion as well.
I'm just trying to understand the combination of all those pieces.
Yes.
I'm not sure that -- there's a lot of moving pieces there.
I'm not sure that we can give you the exact first half-second half split.
I would tell you that the trajectory is right.
That things are improving and obviously the CPI's second half headwind but -- and you got something to add there Brian? Yes I was just going to say [indiscernible] so Michael if you kind of take a look at our guidance right on the yield side we're guiding to 1% to 1.5%.
And year-to-date it's been 1.3% right? So you can kind of look at that relative to the overall range.
And same thing on the volume year-to-date volumes have been 2.1% and our guidance for the full year is 1.5% to 2% right? So while there might be in particular on the volume as I mentioned again tougher comps in the second half you can still see given the fact that half of the year is already done it's not a substantial change if you will in trajectory given that half -- like I said half of the year is already in the bag.
Research Division</strong> And the rollback issue? Are we getting narrowing or less pressure -- I mean -- rollbacks aren't as big as they used to be? Yes I would tell you that we're doing a better job year-over-year on extending business prior to it going to bid.
And I would tell you that when we do have to roll back it's probably similar to last year.
But -- and I would tell you anecdotally I think it's improving.
But again we're talking about resi right? We're talking about municipal resi contracts.
And again that gets influenced not only by CPI but it gets influenced by municipalities getting healthier.
So as the economy improves and our tax base improves that whole dynamic is going to improve with it.
And that's what we would expect to see going forward.
Next question is from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on the cash flow guidance.
It implies call it $430 million to $480 million in the back half which is up pretty nicely versus last year.
And I get that your cash flow is typically back-half loaded.
But can you maybe just walk us through some of the pluses and minuses that give you the conviction that you're going to hit that full year cash flow? Yes sure Joe.
If you look at last year our cash flow in the second half of '13 was over $400 million.
And then when you look at CapEx for the full year our CapEx is going to be lower than 2013.
But through the half year we spent more on CapEx in the first half.
So we are going to have a decline that's pretty significant on CapEx in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's the biggest good guy on the list.
Anything on the minus side that could detract? Well if our profits stay where they are we'll pay a little bit more in tax.
But there's also some other good guys on the working capital side.
So overall we're comfortable in maintaining our guidance of the $675 million to $725 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
I do want to dig into the 13% recycling volume growth just a little bit more.
Glenn I know that you said earlier that the bulk of that came from National Accounts.
But can you maybe just quantify what National Accounts and then maybe give us a sense of where the rest of the growth is coming from? Well it's almost all National Accounts and the biggest piece of that is volumes that we're brokering for National Accounts customers.
That accounts for almost all of the increase that you see there.
So again this is one of those sort of kind of skews the margins a little bit.
We get a fee to manage that volume because we already have 4 million tons of our own volume that we're managing and recycling right? And so we got people that do this for a living for us.
And so when we have National Accounts that need their old corrugated containers managed they do the baling and we basically broker a company to come in and move that material and take it to an end destination one of our mills.
And so we just get a small fee so kind of a pass-through thing.
It kind of skews our margins.
But it's on an ROI basis good business.
So we'll do that for customers when they need that service.
Next question is from Charles Redding with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the National Accounts piece.
Could you just remind us of the increase there for the quarter? And then is it generally fair to assume that that's going to be much less cyclical than special waste? Yes.
Well National Accounts I guess is less cyclical than special waste unless you have a large win or loss.
Overall we focused more of our effort here recently on the sort of mid-sized to small national accounts and have spent less time worrying about or chasing the large national account because quite frankly they tend to be less profitable and they have a harder time creating customer loyalty.
So I would expect that to be less lumpy over time.
But National Accounts is a good business for us.
We're committed to it.
We've got a reasonably sized portfolio that we're growing in mostly as I said in the smaller regional kinds of accounts et cetera.
And the only thing that really kind of skews our numbers in National Accounts is when we have to subcontract services in markets that we're not in or when we do this recycling broker -- brokerage that it makes the margins look a little bit strange.
But I would tell you that again on an ROI basis the business we're bringing up working National Accounts is producing good returns for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there factors there aside from labor that really move the needle in terms of margins or is it mostly labor in terms of just having that subcontracted? With National Accounts again when we do the hauling ourselves these accounts fit right into our network into our density.
And when we have an inordinate amount of a customer's locations outside of our footprint then that changes the overall margin because of the subcontracting portion.
So again as I said good margin -- a low margin but high return when you factor all that in.
Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I joined a little late so my apologies.
But I wanted to drill on this cost of operation inflation and the growth in revenue.
And it still seems to be -- I'm assuming there's a difference that's about 40 basis points costs have gone up 5.5% and revenue went up a little over 5%.
So is that mix -- is that not getting enough traction yet on the cost savings program? What -- it seems like there's a little bit of a struggle here.
And I would have thought you would have gotten a little bit of benefit given that we've comp-ed the CPI hurdle that we've been talking about for a while.
I think Al if you look at our cost of operations and this is in our 8-K in 2013 it was $61.6 million.
And this quarter it's $61.7 million.
So it's pretty even.
And as we said in there we've had quite a bit of growth in our National Accounts and in this brokered business where the margins are thin.
So you've had some increased cost of sales from that increased cost of sales from the commodity brokerage-type business.
Overall the costs have only gone up 10 basis points.
Research Division</strong> On basis points I agree.
But on dollar-wise it's up quite high.
I understand.
Yes.
We've got a little bit of fuel too a little bit of fuel drag there as well Al.
Research Division</strong> Right all right.
Just one other comment and then I have a follow-up.
Just make sure when you get over that hill that all this repair and maintenance work keeps the trucks having their brakes.
No pun intended but -- on the commodity side I understand where prices are as we sit.
But can you remind us you're central region more Chicago-based export market is that fair? And I think you just have a tradition of using the period closing rate to incorporate into future guidance is that fair? Yes that's what we've done.
Our guidance for the full year is $110.
And right now the average is about $111.
And that's all regions and all commodities.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you Holly.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today everyone and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Delghiaccio.
Good afternoon Mr.
Delghiaccio.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Brian Delghiaccio and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Don Slager our CEO; Chuck Serianni our CFO; and Ed Lang Senior Vice President are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from our actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
The material we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is October 30 2014.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings; our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables; and a discussion of business activities along with the recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participate in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased with our third quarter results which were in line with our expectations.
Revenues increased approximately 5% with a balanced mix between price and volume growth.
During the quarter we continued to profitably grow our business by focusing on attracting the right types of customers differentiating our service offering and improving our service quality.
We completed high-quality accretive acquisitions and have already exceeded our full year goal.
And we remain focused on managing cost improving productivity and leveraging our cost structure.
We made great progress towards achieving our annual goal and we are pleased with our third quarter performance.
Some of the highlights include third quarter EPS of $0.52 which was in line with our expectations.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $433 million.
This level of performance includes 84% of our projected full year capital expenditures.
Core price in the third quarter was 3% and average yield was 1.4%.
Average yield was consistent with our second quarter performance even with a step-down in CPI-based pricing.
We continue to see better open market pricing to offset the CPI headwind.
Third quarter volume increased 2.1% and was concentrated to event-driven waste streams.
This level of performance was strong given the tougher prior-year comparisons.
Year-to-date we have returned approximately $560 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
This includes 8 million shares repurchased for $279 million.
We expect to spend approximately $400 million on share repurchases in 2014.
During the quarter we continued to implement our multi-year initiatives that enable us to execute our strategy.
For example we continue to rollout Capture our next-generation ROI-based pricing tool and priority-based selling our new standardized sales process.
Both initiatives are focused on our open market commercial and industrial businesses.
Capture and priority-based selling were designed to work together on the same cloud-based platform to integrate the process of identifying the right type of volume growth at attractive prices.
We continued to make tuck-in acquisitions that layer in well to our existing markets.
Year-to-date we have invested $111 million to acquire $57 million of revenue at a post-synergy EBITDA multiple of 5x.
Additionally we completed the acquisition of Rainbow Disposal on October 1.
This high-quality franchise business complements our Southern California operations.
Regarding our fleet.
14% is currently operating on natural gas 68% of our residential fleet is now automated and over half the fleet has completed our One Fleet maintenance initiative.
I'm proud of our achievements during the third quarter and remain encouraged by the underlying strength of our business.
I want to thank the entire Republic team for their hard work and execution.
Chuck and Brian will now discuss our financial performance.
Chuck? Thank you Don.
Third quarter 2014 revenue was approximately $2.3 billion an increase of $99 million from the prior year.
This 4.6% increase in revenue includes acquisitions of 70 basis points and reflects the following 3 components of internal growth: pricing volume and recycled commodities.
First pricing.
We had average yield growth of 1.4% and core price of 3%.
Core price consisted of 4.1% in the open market and 1.2% in our restricted business.
Average yield in the collection business was 1.5% which includes 2.1% yield in the industrial business and 1.8% yield in the commercial business.
Average yield in the post-collection business was 1.3% led by landfill MSW which increased approximately 2%.
Fuel recovery fees increased 20 basis points.
Most of this change relates to an increase in the rate charge to recover fuel costs.
Fuel costs decreased approximately $2 million compared to the prior year and decreased 30 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $3.84 in the third quarter from $3.91 in the prior year a decrease of 1.8%.
The current average diesel price is $3.64 per gallon.
Second volumes increased 2.1% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive 1.5% primarily due to an increase in landfill and industrial volume.
Growth in the industrial line of business was 4.9% and includes C&amp;D and other temporary business which was up 7.4%.
Volume in the commercial business was up 1.1% and residential was down 60 basis points.
The decline in residential was primarily due to contracts lost in bid situations.
We will only renew business if it meets our return criteria.
The post-collection business consisting of third-party landfill and transfer station volume was positive 4.1% which includes an increase in landfill special waste of approximately 16%.
Our landfill MSW volumes were up 1.8%.
Our defection rate which represents the annualized rate of customer turnover remained stable at approximately 7%.
Third commodity revenue increased 20 basis points.
The increase in commodity sales reflects an increase in tons sold partially offset by a decline in recycled commodity prices.
Commodity prices decreased 2% to an average price of $115 per ton in the third quarter from $117 per ton in the prior year.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $108 per ton.
Third quarter recycle volume of 569 000 tons were up 4% from the prior year.
The increase relates to additional National Accounts brokered volumes.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities increased $7 million compared to the prior year an increase of 30 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Again the increase relates to additional National Accounts brokered volumes.
Now I will discuss year-over-year margin.
Third quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.2% compared to 29.5% in the prior year a decrease of 130 basis points.
A majority of the change can be explained by 3 line items most of which relate to onetime benefits in the prior year.
First landfill operating costs increased 60 basis points.
In the prior year we implemented a low-cost solution at one of our remediation sites which resulted in a onetime benefit.
Second risk management costs increased 40 basis points.
Risk management costs were approximately $12 million higher than our expectations during the quarter or 50 basis points due to a few large claims.
On a year-to-date basis risk management costs were 2.1% of revenue in both the current and prior year.
Third SG&amp;A expenses increased 40 basis points related to a bad debt recovery in the prior year.
SG&amp;A expenses were 10.1% of revenue during the quarter and on a year-to-date basis which was in line with our expectations.
Of the 3 expense line items I just discussed risk management created the largest variance to our current year margin performance.
Excluding the 50-basis-point increase EBITDA margin would have been 28.7%.
All other cost changes represented 10-basis-point improvement in margin.
I would like to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Brian will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Chuck.
Third quarter 2014 interest expense was $87 million which included $11 million of noncash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 37.1% of adjusted earnings in the third quarter and 38.4% on a year-to-date basis.
We expect an effective tax rate of approximately 39.5% in the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $433 million.
Net capital expenditures during this period were $678 million or 84% of our projected full year spend.
Free cash flow can fluctuate by period due to the timing of capital expenditures cash tax payments and working capital.
At September 30 our accounts receivable balance was $955 million and our days sales outstanding was 38 days or 26 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately $7 billion at September 30 and availability under our bank facility was approximately $1.6 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Brian.
To recap our 2014 year-to-date performance I am very pleased with our results and the progress we made in profitably growing the business and achieving operational excellence.
Most of our business lines are performing well and showing strong year-over-year gains in revenue EBITDA and margin.
The one area of our business that continues to lag is residential.
The residential line of business has the highest concentration of pricing restrictions and therefore the most exposure to low CPI-based resets.
While we don't control CPI we are focusing our efforts on the things we can control to improve our residential business.
Specifically we've reviewed all contracts to ensure we are realizing the full revenue potential for each contract.
We identified underperforming contracts and are not exercising options to extend those without a price increase.
We are working to convert new contracts to waste-related indexes versus headline CPI because they better reflect our cost structure.
And we are designing and launching priority-based selling for our municipal business segment in 2015.
We will continue to offer high-quality services and products to our residential customers but must earn an appropriate return to deliver those services.
In our earnings release we updated our 2014 financial guidance that provided a preliminary outlook for 2015.
We expect to finish the year with adjusted EPS of $1.93 to $1.94 and adjusted free cash flow of $675 million to $690 million both are within the guidance range that we provided you in February.
We are midway through our 2015 planning process.
Based on early reviews of the budget and assuming current business conditions our 2015 preliminary outlook is: EPS of $2.02 to $2.06.
This represents mid- to high-single digit earnings growth compared to our expected 2014 performance.
And adjusted free cash flow of $725 million to $750 million.
This represents mid-single digit to low double-digit growth compared to our expected 2014 performance.
This outlook includes the benefit of extending the useful life of our fleet partially offset by investments in growth opportunities and technology.
Consistent with prior practice we will provide detailed guidance in February of 2015.
We look forward to delivering on our promises to our key stakeholders including our customers communities employees and shareholders.
For our customers we strive to provide the highest level of customer service.
We are committed to developing differentiated and superior products that enhance the customer experience.
For the communities we serve we remain devoted to delivering safe convenient and cost-effective solutions while being good stewards of the environment.
For our employees training and developing our people is a priority.
We strive to be the employer of choice.
And for our shareholders we remain committed to creating a long-term shareholder value by generating consistent earnings and free cash flow growth while improving return on invested capital.
I would like to thank the entire Republic team for their contributions that have allowed us to meet our 2014 objectives and positioned us well for future growth opportunities.
At this time operator we'd like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I recognize that the 2015 guidance is preliminary but can you maybe just walk through some of the high-level assumptions like price volume and maybe recycling? Now you know what Joe again we're -- it's preliminary outlook and we're going to give you detailed guidance in February like we do all the time.
We're in the midst of the business planning process as we speak.
We're just taking a look at current trends in the business.
As you know things in the business don't change rapidly.
You understand the current CPI environment.
You understand how the business works.
And we're taking that current trend kind of building it out into '15 setting goals for the field and understanding what the business can produce.
So that's where we're at and we'll give you more detail as we have it in February.
Research Division</strong> Okay I can appreciate that Don.
Let me try it from another angle then.
I mean obviously we've got guidance and planning set for 2014.
So Chuck you highlighted the 3 cost buckets that could potentially be somewhat onetime in nature but just optically looking at 4Q guidance and what it implies it does seem to imply that maybe some costs remain elevated.
Can you maybe just talk to some of the areas that we should be aware of for 4Q? For 4Q or -- the year-over-year if I look at the year-over-year let me answer that.
Right now we had originally guided to 28.5% to 29%.
We're trending a little bit down from there.
But keep in mind that we've got about a 20-basis-point headwind because of commodities.
We've got a headwind of about 10 basis points due to insurance and we've got about a 10-basis-point headwind because of weather.
So if you'd take all of those into consideration and add that back to the 28.1% that we're at right now we end up being kind of on the -- within the guidance that we had given at the beginning of the year.
So in terms of Q4 I don't see any significant changes in our EBITDA.
One other thing to consider there too Joe is that most of the things that Chuck outlined were actually prior year items that were onetime benefits in 2013 that just anniversary-ed right? So when you talk about it in the current year the cost that was an increase relative to our expectation was just an insurance item.
So to Chuck's point x that when you kind of take a look at our year-to-date performance we're kind of in line with what our original expectations were from an overall EBITDA margin performance.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
And one last one for you.
Don in the release I think you mentioned that you guys have the ability and the intent to complete some larger transactions.
I haven't seen that before.
I'm just wondering if that's foreshadowing something or if there's any change to your acquisition strategy? No Joe and I think we've always said look we set our sights on $100 million spend.
We look at a lot of deals to spend $100 million and do that intelligently.
This year we had a few more deals in the pipeline.
And then of course on top of that the Rainbow Disposal acquisition came into the market and we were able to successfully complete that.
So we've got the capacity.
We always say we want to keep our financial flexibility.
Important for us to keep our investment-grade rating keep that financial flexibility.
We want to keep some powder dry so that when there's a good deal in the market we can take advantage of it.
That's exactly what you saw us do with Rainbow.
Next question is from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to -- can you add some additional detail behind the insurance either I missed in your prepared remarks or why is that elevated? And just start from there please? Yes.
So Al our actuary reviews all open claims every single quarter.
So when you think about that process of every quarter it can introduce a little bit of volatility.
But if you take a look at where we were through June we were actually performing more favorable than our original expectations and we expected that to continue.
What we had was a handful of claims that we saw some increased development on in the third quarter.
That was the $12 million that Chuck called out in his notes.
But when you take look at a year-to-date basis both in the current and prior year both are running at about 2.1% of revenue.
So what I would just say is that when we were standing there at Q2 expected the favorable development to continue and we saw it go a little bit backwards in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just another housekeeping item.
The $0.01 or so in bad debt provision is that legacy? Is that -- what is that related to please? Yes that was a bad debt recovery that we actually realized last year.
And so that when you look at the EBITDA margins year-over-year that creates a headwind for us.
But there was something that happened last year recovered from last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I want to focus in terms of the core business.
And I mean this genuinely here.
Don you had said the residential business continues to lag and the commercial and industrial I guess maybe you can comment on that whether that's in line with your expectations.
But if I take a step back and look and add in some of the adjustments it doesn't feel from the outside that the conversion rate on the margin is perhaps where it could be should be and probably not where you wanted it to be.
So are there additional areas that maybe you can highlight for us that maybe still remains a struggle absent price? Yes so let's back up a little bit further from that first okay? So we have a backdrop where CPI has been averaging 1.6% for 5 years.
And over that time in total a 1.6% doesn't get our costs recovered just through inflation right? So obviously we battle back every year with productivity measures and other things to improve our costs.
I would tell you that with that 5-year low CPI environment and pretty steady inflation we've done a good job running the business and managing the core business but essentially holding our EBITDA margins flattish.
And as Chuck said if you take out some of the nonrecurring items they're actually flat to better.
So let's start with that.
So that's what we've been working ourselves toward is improving the business in that low CPI environment.
Again as I said in my comments CPI really impacts us in the residential business.
And so to say it as clear as I can the resi business is just a stinker right now.
We've been dealing with these price rollbacks.
It's a high capital-intensive business and it's one of the reasons we're really tackling it and focusing in on it.
If we step back and look at the other LOBs we're actually doing very well.
And when we do the netting of all the sort of individual issues the growth that we're seeing in the business is coming in at a good margin.
We are seeing the right growth in our commercial business albeit slow.
We've been bragging about the industrial business growing now for several quarters.
That's continued in Q3.
Finally starting to see a little bit of life in MSW volumes at the landfill after many many quarters of 0 to negative.
So the rest of business is performing pretty well and we think frankly very well in light of the macro environment.
It really is this residential business that's been dragging us backwards.
So yes let me just give you a couple of issues or a couple of details.
We've talked about permanent industrial being up 5.3%.
And in Q3 it was 5.6% up in Q2.
Temp was up 7% -- over 7%.
So in pricing it's 4.8% in temporary roll-off.
So we're managing that core business as it's recovering.
We're getting more volume growth.
We're getting price per unit growth and we're getting some margin expansion.
And now we're starting to see that in the commercial business.
So again it's early in the commercial.
We thought it would be stronger by now but it's positive and getting better.
So we're not sure the trend is occurring as quickly as we like or it's probably as much as you would like but it's happening.
It really is residential for us.
So I'm sure all of my guys listening on the phone right now are hard to work and figuring out how we're going to improve residential.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Throughout the call maybe you could comment at some point on the opportunity or the progress on the waste-related index pricing that could help you down the road and when that could start to benefit? Yes let me comment on it.
So I think that's your fourth question but that's okay Al.
It's early.
It's early.
Here's the issue.
I think the industry used headline CPI or some version of that in the residential business gosh as long as I can remember and I've been doing this for 35 years.
So we've always had that in our resi municipal business.
And even in the municipal side of the landfill business we've used that kind of an index.
It worked for us just marvelously for decades because the 25 and 50 average of CPI is over 3%.
And as we've grown our business and built density and done acquisitions and everything else we've done to build the business over that period of time CPI never gave us any heartburn.
It was a nice annuity business.
Well again now we've had this really strange 5 years of averaging 1.6%.
And if you step back and we'd go back in time 4 years ago we were probably expecting CPI to right itself.
And every year there's been sort of this sort of hint or promise that it could improve and it just hasn't.
So we finally had to say "Look enough is enough " and CPI isn't a fair way for those municipal customers to view our business and so we've looked at alternatives.
And so if you look on the BLS one of the components of the CPI basket is an index called water sewer trash.
And we've been working on introducing that index to customers.
We've done it in a very small way.
We've done it successfully in a few small -- I would say very small type municipal contracts with some success.
And we're actually using our industry association in things like SWANA and so forth to begin to have a conversation about what's reasonable and fair for cities to expect out of their waste hauling companies and 1.6% CPI isn't the ticket.
So it's going to take a long time to get that in the business but the good news is we're on it and we're working the system.
And that's the expectation that my team has.
And hopefully at some point you think maybe the industry would support and catch onto it and do it as well because it's not good for anybody and it's not good for the city because the city doesn't want to have a partnership with a company that's as important as a waste company to keep its streets clean.
That's going to be constantly moving backwards in its profitability or at some point go upside down.
So we have to -- we've got to right it and the gross operating margin in that business has shrunk because of this situation and we've got to change it.
So early stages.
Hopefully we can comment more on as we go through year-by-year and hopefully we could see some kind of a shift in -- an industry shift as well.
So that's it.
But -- so we're not sitting on our hands and we're not just whining about it.
We're controlling things we can control Al.
Our next question comes from Scott Levine with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
Firstly special waste volumes are very good in the quarter.
I'm wondering if that's project-specific how the pipeline looks in general we can see this type of growth continue or what's behind it? Yes it's pretty broad-based.
We don't have any really really big big projects to report and that's the good news.
A pretty strong growth.
Most of it is soil-related.
So contaminated soil which I always look at that Scott and think that's a good sign of construction and development to come when they're doing land clearing and taking off the soil it means that they're going to build something new at an old site.
So hopefully that continues to fuel construction for us into the out years.
So again broad-based and we think the trend should continue forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And as my follow-up maybe a little bit of color or update on One Fleet.
I think you said more than 50% of the fleet is there.
Are you guys running positive on that? And should we be thinking about that as potentially a margin contributor a needle moving margin contributor and/or a free cash flow contributor to the positive in 2015? Yes.
So it's moving a little slower still than we'd hoped but we're more committed to it than we ever have been.
So let me give you a couple of comments.
First and maybe foremost it is going to contribute to us spending $40 million less next year on truck capital.
So as we said we're going to aged our fleet and extend the useful life of it to the tune of $200 million capital savings over 5 years starting in '15.
So we're committed to that.
And in the One Fleet divisions we're seeing very good results.
So let me give you a couple of stats.
Maintenance cost per engine hour in One Fleet divisions has improved by 1% to 2%.
Driver productivity in One Fleet sites has contributed approximately $2.5 million to productivity in '14.
One Fleet divisions have 30% fewer unscheduled repairs and 25% higher truck availability or we'd call fleet reliability.
So we think that's going to convert to what we would think as a lower driver turnover rate higher employee satisfaction at some point more customer experience and improved customer experience because our fleet's up and running and we're servicing the customers better.
So we're very very focused here on how we can take care of our customers from a service delivery perspective and a differentiation perspective so we can improve the quality of revenue.
And our technician turnover's lower substantially lower at One Fleet sites and it's really hard today to find good diesel technicians.
And so all of those things are real.
The divisions that we're in now that were converting to One Fleet it's a lot of heavy lifting and those divisions are probably costing us a little more than we thought they would going into Q3 and 4.
But it's going to come around and at some point this sort of backlog of workload is going to be behind us.
We're going to anniversary that and we're going to get those benefits.
We're going to get all those other softer benefits I just mentioned Scott and we're certainly going to be able to extend the life of the fleet in a very methodical and thoughtful way without interrupting the business and again improving the service quality all along the route.
So we're going to get it done and just again it's just harder than we imagined.
But it's the absolute right thing for the business.
And we've got to think beyond the quarter right? We're never going to be at Republic a slave to the quarter or a hostage to consensus.
We're going to have to run the business for the long term and do the sustainable right thing for the business.
Next is Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
So first on the volume just looking at the big picture.
It's a pretty solid number in the third quarter.
And I say that because last year in the third quarter you had a nice strong number as well.
So you were able to deliver a nice number again in what I would say a tough comp.
And so a 2-part question there.
I mean does that imply that sort of the economy and the construction markets are sort of in a cycle where we can continue to expect sort of a 1% to 2% volume number out of Republic going forward? And the second part to that is the volume number you guys are reporting is that really what you're seeing in your end market or is there some market share gains that is helping benefit your volumes right now? Yes so again we're not giving guidance for '15.
We are seeing good and steady volume growth.
Again the business grows as you know through population growth that fuels housing information fuels business formation.
So as long as those dynamics continue we'll benefit from it.
Housing starts are still well below the 25- and 50-year average.
So could it improve from there? It could but we're not seeing that yet.
We're -- I would tell you that we're getting our fair share of organic growth and we're replacing the business that we're losing.
So again we've got the 7% defection every year.
More than half of that is competitive.
So we replace that business.
We're doing a good job of replacing that volume albeit at a lower average rate and so there's that churn issue that impacts us.
But we're getting the volume replaced and we're getting our fair share of new organic growth.
That's really our goal.
On top of that we've got to replace those units at a slightly higher rate than we have historically and that's really our focus with things like Capture and priority-based selling.
We're really hyper-focused on internally what we call quality revenue.
Again as I said to Scott really focused on the customer service delivery and on everything on that end but we're also focused on the selling processes that point-of-sale decision making that we're doing to make sure that we're signing on those new customers at higher rates year-over-year.
So the things we are doing are going to continue.
If the macro environment continues you'll get kind of more the same.
And but the same thing is true with CPI right? We don't have any indication in '15 that CPI is somehow going to magically get better.
And it's an 18-month lag for CPI to work through our system.
So you can sort of factor that commentary into why we're giving you this 2015 preliminary outlook.
Research Division</strong> Got it Don.
And just on the pricing side.
So going back to the point around potentially changing some of the residential contracts and what index they're linked to.
I mean is there any timeline you could provide around when we should expect enough progress so it would move the needle on the bottom line? And the second part to that question I'll turn it over.
You have some really big residential contract out there.
I mean where is it in the Q in terms of actually going and speaking to the folks who are responsible for those contracts and potentially changing the index structure there? Well look one it's lumpy right? The contracts in that business are generally 5 years.
So one we're not going to have 100% success rate.
Let's be fair.
We'd like to think over time if the industry itself determines that the water sewer trash index is a fair way to go and we can start to get cities to believe that is true then it can maybe get some traction.
But it's a 5-year process to work through the entire book of business.
It could've been a bit longer because we've got some contracts that are 7-year contracts right? So -- and some even longer than that.
But I think the bigger franchise type agreements the contracts are longer.
However I would say this that those contracts they tend to be more like real true public private partnerships where we really are extension of the city and maybe because of the great job we're doing and so forth we might have some opportunity to deal with that.
So look it's going to be a long road.
But there's nothing I'm reading that's telling you that CPI is going to get better in a year or 2.
There's a lot of commentary out there that informs our thinking that it could be this way for some time and we just decided we can't wait anymore for CPI to right itself.
So the decades that we've benefited from CPI we don't know when that's going to come back.
So everything else that we're doing to improve the business Capture priority-based selling improving the customer experience all of the work we're putting into trying to drive a higher quality of revenue extend customer loyalty and earn the price increases year-on-year we're going to continue to do that.
And if CPI comes back then that'll be a wonderful thing and it looks to be icing on the cake for us.
The next question is from Tony Bancroft with Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question on the pricing dynamics on the street.
We've heard from your competitor's recent calls talking about holding yield and pricing.
I just want to sort of get your view what you're seeing out there if that's what you're seeing or something different? Yes.
So look our view hasn't changed.
Let me start with that right? So the price volume discussion is always kind of a bifurcated discussion and people sort of get lost in some of the commentary that companies are sharing.
We have -- again a big part of our business is restricted limited by contract to CPI.
Again not whining about that.
It is just what it is.
I can't go in and magically change that.
What we've said going into '14 is that we would go into the open market that didn't have the restrictions stronger to offset some of the pricing that we've lost in CPI.
And we've done that this year.
And the open market has held up very nicely.
Our open market core price is substantially better than our average okay? So the core market meaning or the open market meaning open market commercial small container business and open market industrial.
So that -- part of that's construction and part of that is permanent business.
So that open market has held up well.
So if you look at the pricing dynamic in that market it's done okay.
It could be better if the landfill pricing was moving.
And that's the thing that doesn't get enough discussion.
The fact is again Republic has done a very deliberate job of moving landfill prices forward.
You've heard me talk about the fact that we've year-on-year lost landfill volume.
It's the first quarter in I don't remember how many quarters but maybe 10 or 12 maybe 16 I have no idea that we've actually seen positive MSW volume growth.
And that's just kind of keeping pace now with sort of normal -- some of the construction -- some of the other growth that's in the market.
But that's really the issue for us is what will happen with landfill pricing going forward.
We're going to continue to do what we do and we'd like to think that as the market gets better as the economy improves that we could see landfill pricing moving at a more solid rate to support the underlying economics of supply and demand in the business.
The other thing obviously is we've got a big presence in these markets.
We tend to be #1 or #2 in size and market density does drive margin and hold margin and we don't want to get to a point where we're seeing gaps develop in our density.
So replacing that 7% defection every year trying to do it better than before using these new tools and training that we've talked about now extensively.
And so back to my opening comment I'll close with that.
We haven't changed our tune on landfill pricing certainly and on price volume overall.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And I know you spoken about you always talk about $100 million of M&amp;A and looking at tuck-ins inside your markets is there any update or what would it be what would it take to go outside your market what would you be looking at for there? And are there any -- you said you're always going out in the market and looking.
Are there any possibilities that have come up recently or -- that you are interested in? Well I'm just going to -- we're going to stick with our $100 million general goal.
There are some opportunities out there that you people are probably aware of some big deals in the market that private equity deals coming back to market.
We generally look at everything Tony in the marketplace but primarily we like the tuck-in business because it comes at the lowest multiple post-synergy.
It comes at the lowest risk of integration because we already have management and facilities and infrastructure in place.
And as it relates to the Rainbow Disposal Company that was just a really high-quality asset that was in an adjacent market to where we already were and we felt that one that the assets were great and the management team there was outstanding and some of their infrastructure can actually benefit us going forward in the surrounding market.
So we're going to continue on the same pace.
So I know I said this earlier but I'd say it again.
It makes sense for staying focused on tuck-ins in around that $100 million pace and then it makes sense for us to look at other opportunities and when they're available and we can get good-quality assets with the right price to take advantage of that just like we did with Rainbow.
So we'll continue to take that stance going forward.
Next is from Michael Hoffman with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Housekeeping question for all of us if you would.
What's implicit in your earnings guidance for a tax rate? We're not -- Michael this is Chuck.
We're not giving that level of guidance right now.
Obviously we'll get into a lot more details when we give full guidance in February.
Just keep in mind that our rate in 2014 is 39.5%.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And there's no reason that's going to change right? Yes.
We'll give more guidance in February.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
For whatever it's worth guys some of that kind of knowledge would be helpful.
Well that doesn't get into real guidance.
So you've got to have some assumptions in it.
Year-over-year 4Q you're going to have about a 200-basis-point margin difference.
Are there -- what are the onetime nonrecurring that we should be aware of? Michael we didn't give Q4 margin guidance though.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Well it's implicit in your full year guidance.
Right now we're saying that year-to-date they were at 28.1% on our EBITDA guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Right.
And a year ago you were 30.3%.
Right.
We called out some of the factors that were included in our year-to-date numbers including commodities weather and insurance when you adjust for that we're writing the range of the guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year.
So...
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So that's the point.
Those numbers are in the fourth quarter as well.
That's what I was trying to get at.
It was of last year.
We got the same call-outs there.
Yes.
And remember Michael in the last year in the fourth quarter which we had called out that we did benefit from some favorable environmental adjustments that were more prior-year items which brought the margin up above our original expectations.
So again when you kind of take a look at what we've expected for this year we knew that those things would anniversary out.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Right.
That's what I was trying to get at.
And then Don you have talked about in the past you did share the $200 million in CapEx spread over 5 years but you also talked about 75 basis points spread out over 3 or 4 years of improvement as a result from automation productivity CNG One Fleet how do you feel about that today? Yes.
So look we're getting the benefits from automation on the productivity side.
We're getting benefits from CNG on the fuel side.
The maintenance benefits are coming a little harder than that.
As I said earlier the One Fleet initiative is the right thing to do.
It's coming a little slower than we'd like and it's costing us a little more in this quarter and in the remaining quarter of the year than we may be expected.
We also have some other things going on in there.
So again as you know Michael I mean there's a lot of mix in this business.
You've got a lot of geographical mix.
You've got a lot of line of business mix.
There's a lot of puts and takes.
And the one thing we found as we've dug deeper into the maintenance initiative is fleet complexity.
So these emission standards from the '08 and '10 and '14 engines are driving cost up on those trucks.
We really weren't anticipating that when we went down the road with One Fleet.
And -- but the fact is we're probably spending more time than any company out there really understanding our fleet dynamics and try to drive fleet cost out and anniversary-ing some of these costs.
But there are some things like that that are masking it.
The fact that the CPI resets in the resi business where again most of our automated fleet is working that has not helped us.
So we're committed to those initiatives.
We're going to continue to roll them out and see them through.
And there will be a day when we anniversary some of this bio-wave [ph] cost in maintenance and it'll flat line and then we'll have the benefits throughout other parts of the business.
Barbara Noverini with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> So in reviewing your residential contracts we've talked at length about the challenges CPI-based pricing on the solid waste side but can you comment a little bit about the profitability of your residential recycling programs now that commodity prices are kind of holding at these relatively low levels.
How are you looking to improve this part of your residential business as well? Well Barbara the review that we're doing with our all of our residential contracts include recycling as well.
So we're constantly looking at improving the recycling line of business through making it more efficient at our sorting facilities.
Part of what we're doing through collection methodology by getting efficiencies there.
And when we do look at residential -- or I'm sorry recycling contracts we tend to look at sort of 10- to 15-year returns in average using sort of an average market price.
So they're not performing as well as we'd hoped but again all things are cyclical.
So we're using all the learnings that we're putting into this now to bid new contracts and we will just get better through time.
But the -- it's not the recycling part of the residential business that's dragging us down.
It's the overall CPI environment for again in that line of business that's almost 30% of our total collection business.
So it's a big chunk of our business that is weighing down the other components of the business that are actually operating pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Sure got you.
Do you guys have any leeway to put forth a processing fee or something like that? I know some other competitors in the industry have been talking about this.
Well things like contamination and performance criteria sort of a normal part of these contracts.
So we do our best to hold anybody who is delivering material or producing material for these contracts to their end of the bargain.
So it's -- you can't just break a contract in the middle of a contract and introduce new features or new penalties.
If they're not in there generally at the beginning you don't get to pull those triggers and that's the issue with municipal buyers.
They like to have a fixed-price month-to-month throughout the course of the contract and only onetime a year do they want to open it up to some kind of a standardized index that you don't have to argue about and that's the way they've walked for decades.
And that's probably not going to change much except for the fact that we can get them focused on a different type of index that's more fair to a waste hauler like Republic Services.
And overtime just continue to move through that book of business and improve it.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you Holly.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you all for spending time with us today and have a good and safe evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded.
And all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question and answer session following Republic summary of quarterly earnings.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon.
And thank you for joining us.
This is Brian DelGhiaccio.
And I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO and Chuck Serianni our CFO are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from our actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is February12 2015.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings; our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables; and a discussion of business activities along with the recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter and full year results which were in line with our expectations.
The Republic team continues to execute on our long-term strategy designed to generate consistent earnings and cash flow growth while continually improving return on invested capital.
Some of our financial highlights for the quarter in full year include fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.50.
This result includes a $0.02 benefit from the extension of CNG fuel tax credits.
Full year adjusted EPS was a $1.96 and adjusted free cash flow was $709 million.
Both performance metrics were in line with the full year guidance we provided at the beginning of the year.
Core price in the fourth quarter was 3.2% and average yield was 1.7%.
This is our highest level of average yield in the last four years.
Fourth quarter volumes increased to 1.6% volume growth continues to be concentrated to construction and demolition waste.
We returned approximately $780 million total cash to shareholders during the year which represents a cash yield of 6%.
This includes 11 million shares repurchased for $400 million.
We finished the year with total shareholder return of 24.7% the highest level in the solid waste industry and well above the SNP 500 average.
Throughout 2014 we discussed our multi-year initiatives that enabled us to execute our strategy.
These initiatives are designed to profitably grow our business enhance the customer experience improve productivity and reduce cost.
I will now recap our progress made during the year.
14% of our fleet is operating on natural gas.
During 2014 we added seven CNG fuelling stations and now operate a total of 36.
We increased the automated portion of our residential fleet to 69% from 66% in the prior year.
During 2014 we certified 14% of the fleet under our One Fleet maintenance program.
Approximately 60% of our fleet has been certified since inception.
Some of the benefits we are seeing in our One Fleet divisions include 1% to 2% lower maintenance cost per engine hour 2% greater fleet reliability 20% fewer unscheduled repairs and 50% lower technician turnover.
We continue to make investments in recycling facilities to improve productivity and increase capabilities while rationalizing underperforming assets.
We closed seven older recycling facilities that were not earning an adequate return during 2014.
We invested $231 million to acquire 132 million of solid waste revenue at a post-synergy EBITDA multiple of 5.6 times.
This includes the acquisition of Rainbow Disposal a high quality franchise business that complements our Southern California operations.
Additionally we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Tervita LLC for approximately $485 million.
The acquisition of Tervita provides a platform to expand our presence in the US ENP waste sector and unites an experienced high quality workforce with the Republic team.
We believe the ENP waste sector provides attractive long-term growth opportunities and leverages our expertise in waste handling recovery in disposal.
The assets are well-positioned with approximately 80% of the revenue generated in the Bakken Eagle Ford and Permian basins we expect the deal to close this month.
During 2014 we entered or we heightened our focus on our customers to differentiate our service offering build customer loyalty and increase willingness to pay.
For example we launched the My Resource customer portal which gives our customers online access to their accounts and our services.
Over 500 000 customers have enrolled to date.
We’ve launched the My Resource mobile app an expansion of our customer’s online management tool.
The app allows customers to schedule services and receive push notifications using a mobile device.
We implemented the tablet-based Capture pricing tool which creates a more professional sales experience and helps realize better pricing levels at the point of sale.
This rollout is complete in 17 of our 20 areas.
And we launched priority based selling or PBS which enables us to identify end segment customers buying priorities and attract customers that are willing to pay for enhanced offerings.
We expect that PBS will be fully implemented by the end of 2015.
I’m proud of our many achievements during 2014 which are reflected in our strong performance.
Before turning the call over to Chuck I want to provide an update on the residential business.
Last quarter we discussed the actions we are taking to improve performance.
Since then we have engaged many of our municipal customers and made good progress.
Most of our municipal partners were on a pricing mechanism that is fair to both parties and understand low CPA space resets and that kept pace with cost increases over the last six years.
We had continued to educate municipalities and expanded the use of industries published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics than more closely aligned with our structure.
These include the water and sewer and trash collection services index and the garbage and trash collection index.
We are very early in the process but remain encouraged by our initial results.
The remainder of our business continues to perform well and is generating strong year-over-year increases in revenue and EBITDA.
Chuck and Brian will now discuss our financial results Chuck? Thank you Don.
Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.50 which excluded Bridgeton related mediation - remediation charges of $0.32 and divestiture related cost of $0.04.
During the fourth quarter we recorded a charge of $191 million primarily related to the Bridgeton landfill.
The charge primarily relates to additional cost to operate maintain and replace equipment to the end of the post closure period.
We were able to make better assessment of future costs now that the Leachate management facility is operational.
And operating costs stabilized on equipment that was upgraded in prior quarters.
The charges accrued upfront because this is a closed site but the cash will be spent over the next 35 years.
Fourth quarter 2014 revenue was approximately $2.2 billion an increase of $84 million over the prior year.
This 3.9% increase in revenue includes internal growth of 2.6% and acquisitions of 1.3%.
The components of internal growth are average yield growth of 1.7%.
Average yield in the collection business was 1.9% which includes 2.9% yield in the industrial business 2.1% yield in the commercial business and 90 basis points in the residential business.
Average yield in the post collection business was 1.1% which includes landfill MSW of 1.6%.
Core price which measures price increases net of rollbacks to our same store customer base was 3.2%.
Core price consisted of 4.3% in the open market and 1.5% in the restricted portion of our business.
Our volumes increased 1.6% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive in 1.8% primarily due to an increase in industrial volume.
Growth in the large container industrial business was 4.8% and includes C&amp;D and other temporary business which was up 6%.
Volume in the small container commercial business was up 1.2% and residential volume was relatively flat.
The post-collection business was up 60 basis points and included landfill growth of 1.4% partially offset by decline in transfer station volumes of 1.3%.
Within landfill MSW was up 2.1% C&amp;D increased 5.5% and special waste grew 50 basis points.
We expected special waste growth to moderate in the fourth quarter due to a tough comparison in the prior year.
Next fuel recovery fees decreased 20 basis points.
Most of the change related to decline in the cost of fuel.
Fuel cost decreased approximately $22 million compared to the prior year which includes a CNG tax credit of $10 million.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $3.58 in the fourth quarter from $3.87 in the prior year a decrease of 7.5%.
The current average diesel price is $2.83 per gallon.
During 2014 we increased the amount of fuel we recover through our fuel recovery fee program.
Currently we recover approximately 80% of our total fuel costs additionally 20% of our diesel gallons are hedged using financial hedges.
At current participation levels a $0.20 per gallon change in diesel results in a $1 million change in operating income.
Since diesel cost decreased significantly over the last two months we expect to realize a $0.02 EPS benefit in the first quarter of 2015.
This relates to the timing of our fuel recovery fee adjustment which tends to lag the change in fuel expense by one to two months.
We assume diesel prices remain at the current price of $2.83 per gallon in our 2015 EPS in free cash flow guidance.
We expect a favorable impact to EBITDA margins in 2015 since both revenue and cost will decline by a relatively equal amount.
Finally commodity revenue decreased 50 basis points.
The decrease in commodity sales reflects a decrease in tons sold and the decline in recycle commodity prices.
Commodity prices decreased 2.5% to an average price of $113 per ton in the fourth quarter from a $116 per ton in the prior year.
Fourth quarter recycling volume of 568 000 tons was down approximately 5% from the prior year.
Most of the decrease relates to underperforming facilities we closed during the year.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities decreased $4 million compared to the prior year a decrease of 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $95 per ton this is down approximately $20 per ton from October prices which we used to provide our preliminary outlook.
This results in a $0.06 headwind to 2015 EPS if prices remain at current levels.
We are taking actions to raise prices for recycling collection services and adjusting rate rebates to our open market customers in response to lower commodity prices.
We know our customers value the high quality recycling services that we provide and we must earn an appropriate return to deliver those services.
Before I move on I’d like to summarize the impact in changing fuel and commodity prices on our 2015 guidance and reconcile the difference to the preliminary outlook we provided last October.
The impact of lower net fuel and lower recycling commodity prices results in a $0.04 EPS headwind consisting of a decrease of $0.06 due to lower commodity prices and an increase of $0.02 due to the timing difference of our fuel recovery fee program.
Accordingly the lower end of our 2015 EPS guidance is $0.04 lower than our preliminary outlook.
This assumes recycled commodity prices remain at current levels.
The high-end of our 2015 EPS guidance is only $0.02 lower than our preliminary outlook.
The high-end considers the impact if commodity prices return back to $115 per ton beginning in the second quarter.
Excluding fuel and commodity our 2015 EPS and free cash flow guidance is consistent with the preliminary outlook we provided.
Now I will discuss changes in margins.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.1% compared to 30.3% in the prior year a decrease of 220 basis points.
Most of the change relates to favorable items in the prior year which included 160 basis points from one time environmental and risk insurance savings.
The remaining 60 basis points change primarily relates to an increase in legal accruals of 50 basis points and the timing of incentive compensation accruals of 50 basis points.
And these are partially offset by a benefit from CNG tax credits of 40 basis points.
On a full year basis our EBITDA margin was 28.1%.
I’d like to point out a couple of line items.
Maintenance cost increased 20 basis points compared to the prior year.
Most of the change relates to increased vehicle complexity and cost to refurbished vehicles and containers to support volume growth.
We continue to see higher cost to maintain newer engines due to enhanced emissions controls.
SG&amp;A costs were 10.3% of revenue an increase of 20 basis points compared to the prior year.
Most of the change relates to an increase in incentive compensation expense and an adjustment to bad debt expense in the prior year.
I want to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of our cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Brian will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Brian? Thanks Chuck.
Fourth quarter 2014 interest expense was $88 million which included $11 million of non-cash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 38.4% of adjusted earnings for both the fourth quarter and full year.
In 2015 we expect to return to our statutory effective tax rate of approximately 39.5%.
The increase in tax rate together with the exploration of CNG tax credits results in a $0.06 EPS headwind in 2015.
Full year adjusted free cash flow was $709 million.
This performance includes a cash tax benefit from the extension of bonus depreciation of approximately $45 million partially offset by a capital pull forward of $25 million.
At December 31st our accounts receivable balance was $930 million and day sales outstanding was 38 days or 26 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately 7.1 billion at December 31<sup>st</sup> and availability under our bank facility was approximately 1.6 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Brian.
Before I open up the call for questions I will provide our 2015 financial guidance.
We expect diluted earnings per share to be in a range of $1.98 to $2.04.
This performance represents mid to high single-digit earnings growth after excluding the $0.06 headwind from tax related items and $0.04 headwind from net fuel and commodity.
We anticipate adjusted free cash flow to be in a range of $710 million to $740 million.
This performance represents mid to high single-digit growth after excluding the cash tax impact from the exploration of bonus depreciations and impact from net fuel and commodity.
We expect annual revenue growth of 2.5% to 3.5% which includes average yield of approximately 1.5% volume growth of 1.5% to 2% contribution from acquisitions of 1.5% a decline in fuel recovery fees of 1% and a reduction in recycled commodity revenue of 50 to 100 basis points.
We anticipate EBITDA margin of 28% to 28.5% our 2015 EBITDA margin guidance is consistent with our slightly up versus or slightly up versus our 2014 performance.
Most of the expected improvement relates to the impact of lower net fuel.
2015 net capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $855 million this level of spending includes a $40 million benefit from cost effectively extending the useful life of our fleet offset by growth capital of 35 million infrastructure development of 15 million and investments in technology of 10 million.
Our 2015 guidance does not include the pending acquisitions of Tervita LLC which we anticipate will close this month.
We expect to maintain our 2015 full year EPS and free cash flow guidance after the deal closes since integration cost and infrastructure development expenditures are projected to offset the contribution from the acquisition in the first year.
This is consistent with the expectation we provided when we announced the deal in December.
Well onto our business fundamentals and strength of our assets has not change.
We will continue to manage the business to create long-term shareholder value in 2015 we will remain focused on executing our strategy which is designed to profitably grow our business through organic growth opportunities and acquisitions gain pricing power through differentiation and superior service delivery improve productivity and reduce cost through our fleet faced initiatives.
Generate consistent earnings and cash flow growth and continually improve return on invested capital.
And increase cash returns to shareholders while maintaining a strong capital structure.
We look forward to delivering on our promises to key stake holders including our customers communities employees and shareholders.
For our customers we strive to provide the highest level of customer service.
We are committed to developing differentiated and superior products that enhance the customer experience.
For the communities we serve we are the go to resource for delivering safe environmentally friendly and innovative solutions that make communities better.
For our employees training and developing our people is a priority.
We strive to be the employer of choice.
And for our shareholders we remain committed to creating long-term shareholder value by generating consistent earnings and free cash flow growth improving return on investment capital and increasing cash returns.
I would like to thank the entire Republic team for the contributions that have allowed us to meet our 2014 objectives and positioned us well for future growth opportunities.
At this time operator I would like to open the call to questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
So 1.5% to 2% volume growth that looks pretty good for 2015.
Can you maybe just walk us through by activity or at least directionally give us a sense of where you see that coming from? Sure well again the bright spot in volume for 2014 has been concentrated to construction and demolition.
So we think those trends will continue through 2015.
We did start to see at the end of 2014 a little bit of MSW volume activity pickup in our landfills.
We haven’t yet really seen much activity of real growth in our commercial business.
We don’t have much of that baked in really in ’15 but that’s maybe where the upside lies if we can start to see some of the broader economic recovery start to impact our commercial business.
It’s directionally good but we haven’t seen the uptick that we’d hoped so far but somewhere out there on the horizon for us.
And one of the ways to look at it too Joe is if you kind of look at our full year performance this year from a volume perspective it was 2%.
So next year being 1.5 to 2 really kind of a continuation of what we saw on ‘14 with the exception when you kind of take a look at special waste special waste was pretty strong this year really coming off of a really low comp from the prior year.
So again that would probably be the one difference it’s expressed as far as the rate of growth rather than that relatively consistent with ‘14.
I appreciate that and I guess I thought that Don you would have mentioned maybe the commercial business is a little bit stronger.
And I think you mentioned last quarter it was up 1.8% this quarter it was only up 1.2%.
I guess I’m a little surprised to not see that sequentially ramp.
Is there something out there whether it’s pricing or just markets that it could be holding that back? Yeah Joe I’m sure you got the 1.8 I’m looking at Q3 of ‘14 was 1.1 in volume growth.
So we picked up a little bit in Q4.
Yield in commercial was 1.8 right in commercial Q4 sort of Q3.
So it’s again its trending well.
Again part of this is - our focus is in improving yield right? And improving the quality of the sale and reducing churn and those things so we're really focused there but we think the continued volume in commercial will look consistent with what it is and wouldn’t spend.
And that again if we see broader improvement then we’ll be the first to talk to you about it.
Yeah Joe just to give an idea the commercial volume has been ranged down between 1.1 and 1.3 for the last five quarters with an average of 1.2% for the full year.
One last one and I’ll turn it over.
Do you guys think that this complete fall off in recycling prices could potentially be the straw that breaks the camel’s back here? I guess what I’m trying to understand is if this could actually be a positive it might be the impetus to structurally improving this business.
I know you guys have closed a couple of facilities but do you think that this might cause a broader base industry rationalization or just the opportunity to go back to clients and break a restructure contract? Well it is I would tell you first of all this is being impacted by really broad global macro issues right so you’ve got this issue reports compounding that but you’ve got supply and demand issues are global.
You’ve got China economy you’ve got all that going on.
We’ve not seen a precipitous fall like this in quite some time.
Over the long term we think it probably comes back.
Keep in mind that recycling is a core offering for us it’s something that it’s a product our service that our customers want to buy.
I think they value it more probably then sometimes the industry thinks it does or they do.
So we're going to look at opportunities certainly to price our commodities in our recycling services in the open market.
As you can imagine we've already adjusted our tipping rates at our facilities in the open market.
We've got a number of really long-term contracts with large municipalities that we're bound to deliver on through the remainder of the term we’ll do that.
We will continually look to your point Joe for ways to structure things better but just generally municipalities are not built to accept the risk of commodities commodity market so we've got to figure out a better way to do that.
The next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
I just want to press further on C&amp;D waste.
Don could you just maybe share given your footprint is this broad-based? And are we still climbing along with retail occupancy rates or starts on housing in terms of this activity? Yeah so it is broad-based and we're seeing this growth year-over-year and consistent quarterly growth across the entire company.
We now we've seen volume growth we've seen pricing growth right? So temporary pricing is up almost frankly as much as the volume is up.
So we are growing units across all of our geographic areas and we're growing price per unit as well.
So the demand is there we've put a lot of our equipment back to work.
Chuck made the point that we spent a lot of maintenance expense this year giving us more - put back from service.
So we think it’s going to continue.
And remember I mean your household formation still not at the 50 year average.
So we think over time it could get back to that but I think we’ve got a pretty solid plan for ‘15 and that we’ll see this sort of continued volume as we saw in ‘14 in C&amp;D.
And of course we've seen at the landfills too which again very very broad-based.
So I think I’ve touched before we don’t really track our halls between residential and commercial it’s not that meaningful to us.
We track more between sort of permanent and temporary that’s what the meaningful statistic is in our business.
And the point being there is that the temporary number has been strong but it’s also been better than price? Yeah absolutely right so when you think about almost 5% price per unit through all basis across the business that’s pretty strong.
Again we would expect that and we've been talking about this for a year.
This is what we would expect right as volume demands come back we would be able to get our fair share of the growth naturally because our footprint is so strong.
And that we’d be able to price for accordingly and that’s what we've done.
Yeah in the Temp business in the fourth quarter the halls were up 5.6% and the pricing was up 4.8%.
So you are getting double-digit organic growth in that portion of the business.
The other question I had and sort of two-part but given what’s happening with diesel prices or transportation costs etcetera.
Two things one do you expect or have you started to see any benefit in the residential side of the business maybe production on consumption and then therefore waste generation? And then secondly can you speak to the dynamic that may occur as a result of lower diesel prices by private companies or competitors in the market that theoretically should get more aggressive on price.
Is that out there as a concern how would you respond to that? Okay so first of all right you know that our fuel we basically have a natural held hedge built up into our operating model with our fuel recovery fee and then our fuel hedges.
So you’re structural through his remarks we're not going to see much of a benefit for dropping fuel prices.
So that’s that as far as consumption goes well the average consumer because of spending less on fuel spend more in the economy.
I think maybe over the long-term I think I saw some stature today that said that people are pulling back a little bit because they’re not sure that this low fuel environment is going to last very long.
But it lasted long enough and it looks like a structural shift then maybe people will start pulling some of their the cash back to work in the economy that would certainly be good for us in the small container and landfill business.
So we’ll see what happens with that.
As far as what it does competitively certainly the small companies that don’t have fuel recovery fee that don’t have this path through mechanism.
They are experiencing today sort of an immediate improvement in their operating expenses.
If they’re really smart they’ll hang onto that and realize that this fuel environment may not stay over for very long.
And they won’t just get it back in their pricing.
That would be the smart way to look at it.
If at the same time our customers are experiencing price benefit from us because we have this fair first mechanism that as fuel goes up we share the risk and as fuel goes down we share the benefit.
And so our customers are seeing some pricing relief on their bills which I think positioned us pretty well with the customer as a contract as a part of that’s being fair.
So we have not heard of any irrational competitive behavior because of fuel issues at this point.
I don’t know that I expected - it’s not keeping me up at night Al.
I think overall with dropping fuel prices our customers probably feel pretty good.
We’re doing a good job for them and we’ll continue to adjust their pricing as necessary with other inflation.
The next question comes from Adam Baumgarten of Macquarie your line is open.
Just a question how should we think about the capacity for additional acquisitions and share purchase given that’s your way to deal? Well we gave guidance that we were thinking about $100 million of spend again this year in and around tuck-ins in the core space.
There may be some opportunity to spend some acquisition of dollars in and around the ENP space over time.
But basically you can figure that we’ll spend another 360 million this year on share repurchase right 100 million on tuck-ins.
We’ve certainly got the debt capacity to do that of course we’re going to pay dividend again and we consistently raise the dividends through time.
So our same balanced approach the cash utilization is part of our strategy for a long time it’s part of the value that we create for our owners that really hasn’t changed.
The degree of acquisition is somewhat limited by the pipeline we’re willing to do quality deals.
We’re not going to buy companies that haven’t been around for a long time with good assets.
So that’s - that focus hasn’t changed.
The 360 Adam is actually the amount remaining on our authorization so we intend to complete that in 2015.
Next question comes from Michael Hoffman of Stifel your line is open.
I hope I’m going to be able to get this question out correctly.
So I’m trying to reconcile the cash flow from guidance at the beginning of ’14 what you did and where bonus - because you didn’t think there was going to be any bonus depreciation when you gave us guidance last year at this time.
And at the end of the year we have it.
But I’m trying to understand what’s the delta between the 709 and the original guidance? Is it $20 million and so X bonus depreciation you came in at 689 that’s still within your range it was a god number and bonus depreciation helped by $20 million? Michael you’re right.
This is Chuck.
You’re right on with that.
But let me just walk through that just in case others on the call don’t follow it.
So free cash flow we reported 709 for the year you’ve got a benefit from bonus depreciation of $45 million.
And then we’ve got a $25 million offset to that because we pulled forward our capital to the year which gives us to 689 on an adjusted basis.
And that falls actually on a high-end of the range in our guidance that we gave in October of 675 to 690.
That’s cool.
And then what is - is there any bonus depreciation in the 1555 to 1585 cash flow from aps? No no actually Michael it reverses in ‘15 so when we think about free cash flow for 2015 you actually had a negative because the bonus depreciation of $25 million.
And that’s offset by the $25 million of pull forward capital that we have the capital that we pulled forward into 2014.
So that ends up being a neutral on 2015.
Special waste trends I get you had a tough comp in the fourth quarter but are you starting to see special waste coming from non-residential sort of type activity that could suggest that - well it might not be in your guidance.
And 1.5 to 2 seems like a good number for volume to me but if non-res construction starts showing up maybe that number gets stronger and a leading indicator would be special waste? Yeah special waste has been strong for us.
You’re right we’re seeing a little bit more of that activity it’s probably too early to call it but you’re exactly right.
When we see more and more of the kind of lane clearing jobs that are precursor to industrial and commercial development it’ll bode well for that part of the business but also construction volumes at large.
The next question comes from Charles Redding of BB&amp;T your line is open.
Where do you peg the current differential right now between CNG and diesel? I guess has this dislocation impacted any kind of plans for CNG fleets then? I would say the difference between the two is probably about $1 right now.
And that doesn’t have an impact on our long-term plans.
We still think that the movement into CNG makes sense so we’re going to continue that initiative.
This year the CNG trucks that we’re purchasing will be delivered into facilities where we’ve already got the infrastructure where we’ve already set up the fuelling stations.
As you know that’s a big part of the investment when we convert fleets over.
So we won’t be putting in as many new CNG filling stations as we have over the last couple of years.
We’ll just continue to bring density to the fleets where we already have the investments made.
And then maybe you could just speak a little more to overall trends on the residential side.
What are you seeing here and are you seeing any I guess projected pullback and spending class or perhaps any regions that are stronger than others at least with respect to residential? No I guess the most exciting trend that we have going on in the residential is that we’ve been converting some of our residential customers to the new waste index or industries.
And so we’ve got of our total revenue call it $700 million to $900 million of residential business that’s not typical five year contract.
So these might be anything from a nature way to a - call it a large city but a typical five year contract in that business.
And so $700 million to $900 million of total angle revenue.
We’ve already converted about 70 million of that revenue to one of the new industries.
So giving the mark of CPI and it’s going to take some time to work through the remainder as contracts come due.
But we’ve been at that now for a couple of quarters making pretty good progress.
So the people we’ve been talking to so far have been pretty open to that idea.
We have been successful everywhere of course but we’re going to continue to move down that road.
That’s probably the most compelling thing that’s going on for us residential where most of our focus lies right now.
The next question comes from Tyler Brown of Raymond James your line is open.
So Chuck thanks for the help on the recycling expectation.
So can you give us a little bit of color on your composition of your recycle basket? Maybe by type say fiber glass plastics etcetera etcetera? Well fiber makes up about 70% of our overall recycling the rest of it is made up of as you mentioned glass.
And various plastics and aluminum molds for another metals.
Is plastics bigger in that mix? It’s probably about 5% or so of the mix.
And then Don I’m kind of curious can you give us a little bit more color on Capture? I think you said 17 of 20 areas I assume that’s the preponderance of your sales people.
Is that a good way to look at it? Yeah that’s right.
We’ll get the other three areas completed here pretty soon but we just need to get it done by the end of the year.
So bigger question.
Where does that really attack in average yield? Is that designed to go after gross price is it about reducing rollbacks or is it about narrowing the loss to gain spread or is it kind of all of the above? Yeah so when you think about churn think primarily of the business loss versus business gained.
So again we review and adjust pricing on every customer throughout the year in what we call our RPM process so 12 monthly buckets basically.
Ever customer gets reviewed because we have cost inflation even net of our productivity gains and everything else we do to improve the business.
We saw cost inflation we better recover that.
So everyone gets adjusted there’s some negotiation there’s some rollbacks there may even be some losses of customers.
Some of those are due to pricing some of those are due to just competitive behavior.
Every once in a while we make a mistake and don’t give the service that we need to give and customer will leave for that reason fewer and fewer of those let’s say.
But as we’re replacing those customers that we lose and remember we’ve got about a 7% defection rate in our business every year 7% of customers leave us for some reason.
We replace those customers.
Well the Capture tool is designed really at the heart of that.
So as our sales reps are out in the marketplace calling our new accounts are these maybe new from competition there may be new brand new businesses springing out of the ground.
We want to make sure at the point of sale for those new accounts that we've got better controls in place to get the very best pricing in that situation.
So Capture allows our sales people want to be more efficient they cover more ground.
They can see more customers two when they get in front of the customer they can do a better job of understanding and segmenting that customer understanding their needs that gets tied right into the PBS selling initiative we call [indiscernible] [00:43] selling.
So between the PBS training and the Capture tool we think our sales people now are better equipped to go in and get better pricing on those new customers by doing a better job of understanding what’s important to them and what they are willing to pay for.
That also again it makes it more efficient and makes the sale it makes actually the experience better for customers because it’s a tablet-based tool we can show the customer their sample invoice.
And we can get a customer signature on the tablet for their electronic service agreement.
The whole process just gets tighter and better.
And we've got better control so it’s a cloud-based software.
So if we want to raise prices in Denver tomorrow tonight we can make price adjustments to the actual price sheets that the sales people use.
And tomorrow they could be selling at higher prices with very stringent guard rails and limits on their authority and what decisions they can make in front of the customer so that was a mouthful but does that help you Tyler? No that’s great color.
So I mean as of to date are you seeing any reduction in churn and or the gap between loss to new business narrow? Yeah so we look at average selling price of new customers it’s kind of on the per unit basis is one of the ways we do that.
You think about average yield in our average yield at our commercial business in Q3 was 1.8% and Q4 was 2.1%.
This is largely focused on the open market commercial and open market industrial business.
It’s not necessarily that municipal business it’s not the residential subscription business.
It’s those two big open market verticals for us and we're seeing improvement.
We're getting great feedback from the field great feedback from the sales team makes their jobs a little easier.
And so it’s the right thing to do we're excited about it.
We're going to rollout these next couple of areas and then continue to move forward from here.
Okay that’s great.
And then if I can squeeze one maybe last one in.
So clearly residential has been a big drag just given CPI.
And you noted some great success on the new industries some great data actually that you gave.
But how should we think about this business longer term.
I mean to me it’s probably one of your lower ROIC businesses.
Would you look to retrench if you really don’t have any pickup in CPI and or success on the new industries? Well we're having success again we're not going I wouldn’t advise you to extrapolate that success easily it’s very difficult work.
The business we have - has an ROI that’s above our whack I mean so its returning positively it just has fallen off from where we've come from.
And so look we went through a really tough recession these municipalities faced with these municipal pensions that we’re failing faced with the tax basis crumbling property taxes and all the rest of it.
Economy has been battling back you see all those metrics in the economy we've been good Republic private partners these municipalities.
We did the right thing by trying to help them right size their cost in sort of the time of trouble.
We're frankly not willing to go any lower because we can’t and it’s time for us now to expect lower fair and reasonable pricing mechanism in our contracts going forward.
The other thing remember is four years ago when we were first living for the first couple of years in a slow CPI environment nobody thought nobody I talked to thought CPI was going to stay low.
Now back now four years ahead of that where we are today and no one really believes that no one see’s CPI normalizing to its 25 year average above 3%.
And everyone sort of agrees on the fact that the CPI’s been manipulated.
So we can’t live in that environment.
And so we are moving forward as I said within new industries.
We're not going do business or take new business that doesn’t meet our return criteria.
And we intend to improve this business over the long term.
And we’ve got some good traction so far.
All right perfect.
Great stuff thanks Don.
The next question comes from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Don on the CPI point I think over the last couple of months because it was actually I trust lower probably partly due to the decline in energy.
Are you anticipating any potential headwind from CPI in ‘15 or is it going to be potentially more of an issue for the company in ‘16 if it stays at these levels? You got it right we’ve got that sort of 12 - 18 month lag on CPI that way it works to our pricing and it’ll be more of a ‘16 event for us.
So we're hoping that these low CPI’s are being forecasted.
Start to bump up a little bit at the end of the year but for ‘15 we won’t have much impact from it.
Okay that makes a lot of sense.
And then on the closed acquisitions in ’14 can you talk about what the expectation is for contribution to EBITDA from those acquisitions in ’15.
And I know you talked about - synergy acquisition of the pull how long could it typically take to accomplish the synergies? This is Chuck so most of these acquisitions are relatively small but probably in the $2 million to $3 million range.
And I would say that we can get them up to kind of the company’s current margins relatively quickly.
So they’ll perform at pretty much at post synergy levels in ‘15.
Appreciate that Chuck.
And then just last question from me you spent some time talking about some of the new customer service tools that are out there.
I’m sure it’s early but do you think that you could potentially reduce the churn rate in the business as a result? I know that the 7% number we always talk to but is part of the goal with these in your customer service tools that number potentially comes down are you seeing any progress at all on that front? Yeah the tools we talked about the PBS and the Capture really are focused at bringing our new business correctly.
We think about defection the 7% of the business that we lose the way we’re focusing on that Alex is really through all of our customer service metrics.
So we track across the entire company at every division we track miss-pickups we track service commitments we have got a number of service commitments that each of our general managers makes to customers in each of our divisions.
We know what their adherences of those commitments.
We also use something called net promoter score which we’ve talked about in the past.
And we get direct feedback from our customers every one of our markets.
And how they feel about our service and whether or not they would recommend us to somebody else.
So we focus on those customer metrics to understand how we’re doing in servicing our customers and how they value us.
And basically we’re trying to drive all of those metrics up because we want to extend customer loyalty right? We want customers to come with us we want them to stay with us because we’re a great service provider and then we meet their needs and we handle all of that for them right? That’s our tagline; we’ll handle it from here.
So we’re working on that and can we get perfection down from 7%? Well it used to be 10 we brought it down to 7 and we’ll see where we go from here.
We do our best we know our service metrics are improving miss-pickups are down service commitments are up.
And our net promoter score has improved dramatically since we introduced it.
So we also brought customer service metrics into our compensation programs for our general managers.
So everyone has got some skin in the game now to improve the customer experience for each and every one of our customers.
So that’s how we’re looking to get that done.
That’s all the time we have for questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you Sheila.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 call for investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded.
And all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question and answer session following Republic summary of quarterly earnings.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon.
And thank you for joining us.
This is Brian DelGhiaccio and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' first quarter 2015 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO and Chuck Serianni our CFO are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is April 23 2015.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings; our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables; and a discussion of business activities along with the recording of this call are available on Republic's Web site at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the event.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased with our strong first quarter results which were in line with our expectations.
The Republic team continue to execute on our long-term strategy which is designed to generate consistent earnings and cash flow growth expand margins and continually improve return on invested capital.
Some of our financial highlights for the quarter include first quarter EPS was $0.49 which included a $0.02 benefit from the timing of our Fuel Recovery Fee.
We anticipated this benefit as part of our full year guidance provided in February.
Adjusted free cash flow was $241 million which was in line with our expectations.
EBITDA margin was 28.9% and represents a 120 basis points improvement from the prior year.
Approximately 90 basis points of the improvement relates to the net impact of fuel and recycle commodities.
Core price in the first quarter was 3.7% and average yield was 2.1%.
This is our highest level of average yield in over four years.
First quarter volumes increased 1.9% with positive contribution from all of our collection and disposal lines of business.
We returned $194 million total cash to our shareholders during the quarter.
This includes 2.3 million shares repurchased for $95 million.
We have $265 million remaining on our existing share repurchased authorization which we intent to complete during 2015.
We continue to make progress on our multi-year initiatives that enable us to execute our strategy.
These initiatives are designed to profitably grow our business enhance the customer experience improve productivity and reduce costs.
By the end of the first quarter 15% of our fleet was operating on natural gas.
69% of our residential fleet was automated and 64% of our fleet was certified under our One Fleet maintenance program.
Additionally all of our markets are now using our capture pricing tool.
We have trained and implemented our priority based selling program or PBS in approximately 60% of our markets.
We expect PBS to be fully implemented by the end of the year.
And finally over 700 000 customers are enrolled in our customer portal called My Resource.
On February 13 we closed the acquisition of Tervita LLC.
The assets provide a platform to expand our presence in the U.S.
E&amp;P waste sector and united experience high quality work force with the Republic team.
We are still early in the integration process but it's going well and is expected.
In summary our strong performance in the first quarter was in line with our expectations and keep us on track to achieve the full year guidance we provided in February.
Consistent with prior practice we will update our full year guidance on our Q2 earnings call in July.
Before turning the call over to Chuck I want to provide an update on our municipal business.
We continue to educate municipalities and expand the use of indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics then work closely aligned with our cost structure.
These include the water and sewer and trash collection services index and the garbage and trash collection index.
During the quarter we converted an additional $40 million of annual revenue and now we have over 300 contracts representing $110 million of annual revenue using an alternative index.
We are still early in the process but very encouraged by our initial success.
We continue to offer high quality services and products to our municipal customers.
But must earn an appropriate return to deliver those services.
Converting to alternative indices together with our actions we are taking to improve the performance of our municipal business it will take several years to realize the full impact given the long term nature of these contracts.
Chuck and Brian will now discuss our financial results.
Chuck? Thanks Don.
First quarter 2015 revenue was approximately 2.2 billion an increase of 92 million over the prior year.
This 4.4% increase in revenue includes internal growth of 2.3% and acquisitions of 2.1%.
The components of internal growth are average yield growth of 2.1%.
Average yields in the collection business was 2.5% which includes 4.1% yield in the industrial business 3.2% yield in the commercial business and 70 basis points in the residential business.
Average yield in the post collection business was 1% which includes landfill MSW of 2%.
Core price which measures price increases net rollbacks to our same store customer base was 3.7%.
Core price consisted of 4.8% in the open market and 1.8% in the restricted portion of our business.
Our volumes increased 1.9% year-over-year.
The collection business was positive 1.7% primarily due to an increase in large container industrial volume.
Growth in the industrial business was 3.9% with relatively equal contribution from the ferment business and temporary C&amp;D holes.
Volume in the small container commercial business was up 0.8% and residential volume was positive 1.1%.
The post-collection business was up 3.9% which is comprised of landfill growth of 4.2% and transfer volume growth of 3.3%.
Within landfill MSW was up 5% C&amp;D increased 10% and special waste grew 3%.
Next fuel recovery fees decreased 70 basis points.
The change relates to the decline in the cost of fuel which decreased approximately [$15 million] dollars compared to the prior year.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $2.92 in the first quarter from $3.96 in the prior year a decrease of 26%.
The current average diesel price is $2.78 per gallon.
Currently we recover approximately 80% of our total fuel costs through our fuel recovery fee program.
Additionally 20% of our diesel gallons are hedged using financial hedges.
At current participation levels a $0.20 per gallon change in diesel results in a $1 million change in operating income.
We realized a $0.02 EPS benefit in the first quarter due to a timing difference between our fuel recovery fee revenue adjustment in fuel expense which tends to lag by one to two months.
We do not expect this benefit to continue in future quarters.
Finally commodity revenues decreased to 100 basis points.
The decrease in commodity sales primarily relates to a decrease in recycled commodity prices.
Commodity prices at our recycling facilities decreased 17% to an average price of $97 per ton in the first quarter from a $117 per ton in the prior year.
Current average commodity prices are approximately $96 per ton First quarter recycling volume of 580 000 tons represents growth of approximately 4% from the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions volume were down 5% and below our expectations.
This was primarily due to congestion at the West Coast ports.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities decreased $3 million compared to the prior year a decrease of 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Now I will discuss changes in margins.
First quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.9% compared to 27.7% in the prior year an increase of 120 basis points.
Most of the improvement relates to changes in net fuel and commodity which added 90 basis points.
The remaining 30 basis points change primarily relates to reduction in risk insurance expense as a result a favorable claims development in continued improvement in safety related performance.
SG&amp;A costs were 11% of revenue an increase of 70 basis points compared to the prior year.
This change includes acquisition related cost and integration expenses associated with recent acquisitions which included approximately 30 basis points of expense during quarter.
I want to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of our cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Brain will now discuss interest expense free cash flow and selected balance sheet data.
Thanks Chuck.
First quarter 2015 interest expense was $89 million which included $11 million of non-cash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 39.4% which was consistent with our full year guidance.
First quarter adjusted free cash flow was 241 milli and in line with our expectations.
Cash flow can vary quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of working capital.
At March 31st our accounts receivable balance was $930 million and day sales outstanding net of acquisitions was 38 days or 25 days net of deferred revenue.
Reported debt was approximately 7.6 billion at March 31st and availability under our bank facility was approximately 1.7 billion.
I will now turn the call back to Don.
Thank you Brian.
To conclude our first quarter results put us right where we thought we would be I am proud of how the Republic team continued to execute our strategy and our strong performance reflects their hard work.
We will continue to deliver on our promises to our key stakeholders including our customers communities employees and shareholders.
At this time operator I’d like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] In the interest of time we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question today.
[Operator Instructions] One moment please for the first question.
The first question comes from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Couple of one's for you on the pricing side so the 2.1% yield is a nice improvement relative to last year.
Can you talk about how you see the trajectory for the balance of the year because I believe in the second half their maybe some negative impact of the reset of CPI.
Do you think we can stay above this 2% level for the balance of the year? No Alex we’re sticking with our guidance as we said in our prepared remarks we think that average yield should still be somewhere around the one year guidance we gave.
There is couple of things happening in Q1 first of all we’ve got a little softer quarter last year to compare to so that kind of flows through our results here you got to keep that in mind Q1 of last year was impacted negatively by weather and other things.
We also have had increasingly better pricing on a consecutive basis over the last four or five quarters and so as we get through the year the comps the pricing are going to get a little more difficult because we have been improving average yield consistently.
So that’s going to be coming up on us.
And then lastly we got a lot of pricing actions out there in Q1 specifically in and around recycling.
As you know we were hit pretty hard with commodity sale prices and we’ve taken some pretty serious actions for pricing in the field specifically in and around recycling customers and that’s all showing up in that yield.
And then just on Tervita now that we’re into '15 can you provide an update on what you expect the revenue contribution could be from Tervita in '15? Yes so we think it is just going to be right where we thought it would be for the most parts had a little tour itself for us but again we've only owned it for six weeks we’re really happy with the assets.
We have seen I know everyone sort of read about all of the rig count dropping faster than we expected.
We’re seeing a little bit of softness we anticipated some of that softness in our pro forma in our budget and our guidance and the place we're probably being seen the weakest part in net business is the solids control piece of the business as coming a little softer than expected and that’s really got much more of a lower margin associated with it.
So I think the real performance of that business as going to be pretty much on track what we expected.
As far as call it cash flow on EPS.
The next question comes from Charles Redding with BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Just wondering if you can maybe talk a little bit more on the commercial side in terms of trends what you're seeing container waste is going to be like? Yes so the container waste are up a little bit service increases are up but not dramatically.
I would tell you what we’re seeing in the business is continuing a broad recovery.
Again we saw it first in the construction demolition and we've talked about that for a year.
We’re starting to see a little bit of that improve in and around the commercial business and we’re seeing it frankly in some of our MSW at the landfill as well.
So a broader recovery pretty good solid recovery across all regions but not a spike just kind of a steady improvement.
Do you get any sense of slowing or pressure come on the industrial side if we think about domestically speaking the pull back in industrial production.
Are you seeing any of that right at this point? As Chuck said we’ve got really solid performance both on the permanent side of our industrial business as well as on the temporary side pretty strong performance.
Now remember that’s we’re going to have some headwind as we go forward on a year-over-year basis because again we’ve been improving that segment of our business pretty consistently quarter-by-quarter.
So it's going to be more difficult as we go through the recovery to maintain some of these high growth numbers because of the comps.
I mean we would expect to continue to grow but just maybe not at the same rate.
That's great appreciate the color.
The next question comes from Tyler Brown with Raymond James your line is open.
Hey Don so just would love to get some color on Capture and PBS so you know looks like you guys are virtually rolled out on Capture maybe PBS has got a little bit more to go but it seems like you're getting some traction there but any data points you could share around the impacts there and maybe through low churn or maybe that spread differential between lost and new business? So I won't give you the exact numbers Tyler but I can tell you that where we've rolled out Capture and where they've been at it the longest the price per unit of new sales are compared to last year are improving the Capture also comes in handy and the PBS training comes in handy with retaining business so reducing net churn from a lost business and better negotiating skills with customers on potential reduction of rates when that's necessary that's improving.
So we're seeing impact maturing which we expected we're seeing higher rates on new business as expected and we don't have we've got it rolled out everywhere as you'd imagine that the divisions that had it rolled out earliest have got better compliance and adoption rates and it's the ones that have been through more recently still need to work on that but we're continuing to improve that and by the end of the year we'll be very solid across the entire company both with Capture PBS will be rolled out and of course we have enhanced our CRM tool so those three things together make the sales organization much more effective much more efficient much more professional.
And we’ve got the controls in place that we need to further improve churn and new pricing and new sales as well.
Okay perfect that's a good color.
So you know again nice quarter here and it seems like again the pricing side maybe has got a little bit of momentum there but it still seems that maintenance and repair really hasn't seen a lot of leverage from One Suite maybe I'm missing it and that's very possible here but when would you expect kind of that unit cost inflation on the maintenance and repair side to maybe moderate or maybe even turn negative? I'm going to let Chuck give you the numbers in a minute but let me just give you the color again.
You know at the divisions that have been [indiscernible] longest we've seen reduction in some pretty important metrics.
Lower engine cost per hour we've seen better fleet reliability measured is less downtime.
We've seen lower tech turnover pretty hard to find diesel techs these days so the maintenance shops that have one fleet installed are better placed to work for those techs all will be positive metrics.
So we know it’s working and I'll let Chuck talk a little bit about how some of the margins the mix have impacted what you're looking at.
So Tyler you know it's important to note that the impact that net fuel and commodity and commodity has had on the margins overall.
We said that it was a 90 basis point improvement in the EBITDA margin but it has a similar impact in terms of the cost margins the impact on labor is about 30 basis points.
When you look at the impact of that revenue going away and the impact on maintenance is probably about 10 basis points.
The other thing I would note is that it also has had a negative impact on our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to the tune of about 20 basis points so you're seeing that included in the numbers that you're looking at in our press release.
Okay yes that's great.
And then Don if I can squeeze kind of a left field question here but I am very curious about this so there's been a lot of talk in some of the transportation rags about a Federal highway bill that may add a size and weight provision which would allow for heavier trucks and I'm just curious if you guys have ever looked at this or maybe contemplated any potential savings from any big changes on size and weights? I guess maybe thought of another way do you guys typically cube out or weighed out your transfer trailers.
Yes we generally weight out the transfer trailers these are 52 foot trailers now really mega capacity so we work within the compliance of the current regulations for gross vehicle weight generally speaking we max out the weight before we max out the space in the trailer and the same thing in our hauling fleet our collection fleet.
They can generally handle more weight than which is allowed under the regulation so we live within the regulations today we haven't looked a lot at what refining those would do for us.
I don’t know where that bill at or how much traction it's got but we haven’t spent a lot of time on that Tyler.
As left field I was just curious thank you.
The next question comes from Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Markets your line is open.
A question for you on your residential business if I just use the 552 million that you give in the release in terms of revenue you're looking at about 2.6% growth rate in that business and if my model is right that looks like it's the highest growth since the last cycle.
Can you maybe just put some parameters around that growth are you seeing any changes within the organic growth rates there or is it some of the small tuck-ins just starting to add up.
One thing Joe to remember too as well is that that's going to include acquisition growth as well so when you think about things like you know the Rainbow franchise and some of those things that we acquired so it's not just organic growth it's also going to include acquisition growth as well.
Yes and that’s why I was asking if you could just flush out maybe the difference between organic and inorganic I mean have you seen any sort of change in the growth rate for just the organic component? I would say as far as unit growth within current contracts we haven’t seen any real surge there that business tends to be a little lumpy because these are generally in the residential business five-year contracts they have [indiscernible].
We do have a couple of new contracts from organic growth in the mix today.
But we budget every year for a little bit of new business and some loss business in that contractual base.
So it sounds like probably no inflection point from new home formation or anything like that though? Not in the ordinary.
Relative to the SG&amp;A I think Chuck you call that earlier that there was some integration expense that was included in the SG&amp;A.
I'm curious what a decent run rate for the salary side is should we expect about 30 basis points of headwind over the next couple of quarters I know you’ve got some additional integration with Tervita is that a decent run rate? We’ve said -- we’ve got some continued headwind with Tervita with acquisition type cost.
I think overall for the year we expect that SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue is going to be a little bit of in excess of 10% but I would tell you that longer term for the company we feel that 10% of revenue is a comfortable spot for us in terms with our SG&amp;A.
Yes and the other thing to remember Joe is that the impact of lower fuel recovery fee and lower commodity prices that doesn’t have a cost offset in SG&amp;A.
So as a percent of revenue that gives us about 20% increase as a result of the decline in those revenues.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Michael Hoffman with Stifel.
Your line is open.
I am trying to get my hands I count that your recent guidance in the middle of the year but you got off to a pretty good start.
There is a couple of numbers that I'm like okay this is to do weird things in the second half of the year if I am holding one and a half price it feels like it’s got to walk itself up to some.
And then you had a 2% to 2.5% revenue growth rate but that was before Tervita so I got to assume that number has got to change anyway right? I'm struggling with -- you're not changing your outlook not even sort of being a little more optimistic about we feel really good about the outlook.
Yes so let's say this we feel good about what’s going on in the business I think our comments reflected that.
We got some good things going on our initiatives all have traction we completed the rollout of capture we’re on track with their other major initiatives we talked about some of the broader base recovery we’re seeing in MSW the landfill commercial business starting to tick up a little bit all that’s good.
Tervita is going along fine little headwind there.
Again we’ve -- this was pretty much what we expected when we gave you guidance only two months ago.
There are some anomalies and remember that we -- even though we had to take pretty big hit year-over-year in our guidance from standpoint of recyclables we’ve actually -- they are actually weaker than we planned and you see that there in the numbers.
So we’ve got that as the headwind remaining on the year and you don’t know what’s going to happen there just yet.
So we still have to overcome three more quarters of a pretty tough recycling commodity market.
We are getting traction in the programs.
Remember last Q1 was pretty weak with the adverse weather so this quarter is a fairly easy comp again we got the $0.02 from fuel that’s going to go away.
So we had a good quarter and solid quarter.
We’ll take all the credit for that but it's just too early to talk about year-end at this point.
And again as we get through the year remember we’ve been growing and improving price every quarter sequentially in the past four five quarters and so as we go through the year and comp the last year those comps are getting little tougher on year-over-year growth so just keep that in mind.
Are you retaining more of the price that you're putting in the street this year than you were last year? We are we’ve gone out with a little more pricing in the open market and we’ve also gone out pretty strong with price increases this year in the open market to our recycling customers because the market hasn’t held up and to remember this we already know about what our price is going to be in our restricted base that is what it is and we’re trying to combat that with the new indices.
And again having some pretty good traction there.
So I can’t predict today what the open market is going to do into Q3 and Q4.
I would like to think that it's going to hold up fine as it did in Q1 so we’re going to continue to maintain the kind of level of actions we’ve taken in Q1.
We’re not going to relax our pricing position and we’re going to continue to expect more from the tools.
But lot of extra price you see there is coming from open market actions and a lot of it coming from the recycling business.
And we can’t go back and price that again that was sort of a one type step up.
You got to clean up the difference between the commodity and what you're charging.
That’s right.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
I’ll now turn the call back to Mr.
Slager for his closing remarks.
Thank you Sheila.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded and all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session following the Republic summary of quarterly earnings.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
This is Brian DelGhiaccio and I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' second quarter 2015 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO and Chuck Serianni our CFO are joining me as we discuss our performance.
Before we get started I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time-sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or a recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is July 23 2015.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website along with instructions for listening to the live webcast of the events.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
The Republic team continued our strong start to the year and delivered another solid quarter.
We achieved higher levels of core price and average yield profitably increased volumes made continued progress against our multiyear initiatives and reported earnings and free cash flow growth.
We continue to see positive momentum in our business from successfully executing our strategy and a steady improvement in solid waste trends.
Some of our second quarter and year-to-date highlights include: second quarter EPS was $0.54; the second quarter benefited approximately $0.03 due to a lower tax rate; year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $410 million which was in line with our expectations; second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.3% which was consistent with the prior year and our full-year guidance; core price in the second quarter was 3.8% and average yield was 2.4%.
The sequential improvement in yield performance reflects an increase in the level of pricing a favorable reduction in rollbacks and an improvement in the impact from churn.
Each of these components of average yield has benefited from our revenue enhancing initiatives.
This is the second straight quarter of reporting average yield in excess of 2% while growing volumes in excess of 1% which clearly demonstrates our ability to grow both price and volume simultaneously.
Second quarter volumes increased 1.1% which was broad-based geographically and included positive contribution from our collection and disposal lines of business.
The year-to-date investment in solid waste acquisitions was $116 million.
This includes our normal tuck-in transactions and approximately $80 million of consideration for a life-of-site agreement to operate the Sonoma County landfill and transfer station network.
We commenced operations of Sonoma County on April 1 of this year.
The integration of Tervita is going well and on track with our plan.
Performance has been short of our original expectations due to a sharper decline in the rig counts and drilling activity but we remain pleased with the people and the quality of the assets.
We are well positioned to take advantage of a recovery in this business.
As part of our efficient capital allocation strategy we returned approximately $400 million total cash to our shareholders since the beginning of the year.
This includes 5.1 million shares repurchased for $205 million.
We have $155 million remaining on our existing share repurchase authorization which intend to complete during 2015.
Additionally our board recently raised the quarterly dividend to $0.30 an increase of approximately 7%.
We continue to make progress on our multiyear initiatives that enable us to execute our strategy.
These initiatives are designed to profitably growth our business enhance the customer experience further differentiate our service offerings and reduce costs.
Regarding our revenue enhancing initiatives all of our markets are using our capture pricing tool.
75% or our sales force has been trained on priority-based selling or PBS.
We expect PBS to be fully rolled out by the end of the year.
Nearly one million customers has enrolled in the My Resource customer portal and app.
And finally we have approximately 350 contracts with more than $150 million in annual revenue that now use an alternative index for the annual price adjustment.
We continue to educate municipalities and expand the use of indices that more closely align with our cost structure.
Regarding our fleet 15% of our total fleet now operates on natural gas 70% of our residential fleet is currently automated and 70% of our total fleet has been certified under our One Fleet maintenance program.
With respect to our recycling business average recycle commodity prices remain below the 10-year average which continues to put pressure on our results.
Most of our recycling business is performed on behalf of our municipal customers under multiyear contracts.
As these contracts come to term we are focused on renegotiating terms that contain the elements most important to us including increasing processing and service fees that allow us to recover our costs and earn a reasonable return and implementing a commodity revenue share mechanism that fluctuates with commodity markets but also incentivizes customers to send us clean and valuable material.
We expect it will take several years to realize the full impact of our efforts given the long term nature of these recycling contracts.
In the open market where we do not have the same contractual limitations we have already taken the following three actions: first we increased rates charged for recycling collection services to be more in line with solid waste services; second we increased amounts charged for processing materials at our recycling facilities; and finally we adjusted the rebates paid to third parties for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities.
We believe that improving the profitability of the recycling business ensures its sustainability which benefits the environment our shareholders our customers and the communities we serve.
In summary we are very pleased with our second quarter and year-to-date results.
We are raising our full-year financial guidance as follows based on our expected outperformance for the year.
We now expect diluted EPS to be in a range of $2.02 to $2.05; our original guidance was $1.98 to $2.04.
We now expect adjusted free cash flow to be in a range of $720 million to $745 million; our original guidance was $710 million to $740 million.
Chuck will now discuss our financial results.
Chuck? Thanks Don.
Second quarter 2015 revenue was approximately $2.3 billion an increase of $82 million over the prior year.
This 3.7% increase in revenue includes internal growth of 1% and acquisitions of 2.7%.
The components of internal growth are as follows: first average yield growth of 2.4%.
Average yield in the collection business was 2.9% which includes 3.6% yield in the small container commercial business 4.4% yield in the large container industrial business and 1% yield in the residential business.
Average yield in the post-collection business was 0.9% which includes landfill MSW of 1.4%.
Core price which measures price increases net of rollbacks was 3.8%.
Core price consisted of 4.8% in the open market and 1.9% in the restricted portion of our business.
Second our volumes increased 1.1% year-over-year.
The collection business increased 1.3% which includes positive contribution from the commercial business of 0.5% the industrial business of 1.9% and the residential business of 1.8%.
Our commercial volume performance of 0.5% includes a 30-basis-point decline due to not renewing select national accounts customers and work performed on behalf of brokers.
We view these losses as non-regrettable.
The post-collection business made up of third-party landfill and transfer station volumes increased 0.6%.
Landfill was up 0.9% which includes positive contribution from MSW of 4% and C&amp;D of 1.9% partially offset by a decline in special waste of 2.1%.
Special waste volumes were up 0.8% excluding the decrease in same-store E&amp;P waste streams.
The sequential decline in our volume performance from the first quarter was expected since we had a tougher comparison in the prior period.
Next fuel recovery fees decreased 150 basis points.
The change relates to a decline in the cost of fuel which decreased approximately $33 million compared to the prior year.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $2.85 in the second quarter from $3.94 in the prior year a decrease of 28%.
The current average diesel price is $2.78 per gallon.
We recover approximately 80% of our total fuel costs through our fuel recovery fee program.
Additionally 20% of our diesel gallons are hedged using financial hedges.
At current participation levels a $0.20 per gallon change in diesel results in a $1 million change in annual operating income.
Finally commodity revenue decreased 100 basis points.
The decrease in commodity sales primarily relates to a decrease in recycled commodity prices.
Commodity prices at our recycling facilities decreased 11% to an average price of $97 per ton in the second quarter from $109 per ton in the prior year.
June commodity prices were approximately $100 per ton.
Second quarter recycling volume of 655 000 tons represents an increase of approximately 5% from the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions volumes were down approximately 6%.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities decreased $3 million compared to the prior year a decrease of 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Overall we've experienced greater than anticipated headwinds from our recycling business primarily due to recycling collection.
Within recycling collection we are receiving less than anticipated rebates for materials delivered to third-party facilities.
The lower rebates which are recorded as part of our recycled commodity revenue reduced second quarter EPS by approximately $0.01 compared to our original expectations.
We recognized this headwind and implemented additional price increases in the open market to help mitigate the impact.
This pricing action explains some of the sequential increase in core price and average yields compared to our first quarter results.
Our material recycling facilities performed in line with our expectations.
Now I will discuss changes in margin.
Second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.3% which was consistent with the prior year.
Margin expansion from the solid waste business which includes lower fuel cost was offset by the impact of lower recycled commodity prices and E&amp;P waste services.
Our E&amp;P waste business includes transition and integration costs from our recent acquisition of Tervita.
There was a 250 basis point reduction in revenue due to a decline in fuel recovery fees and lower recycled commodity prices.
As a result certain cost line items increased as a percentage of revenue.
This was most prominent in the larger cost categories.
For example the decline in fuel recovery fees in commodity revenue resulted at an increase in labor of 40 basis points in maintenance of 20 basis points and in SG&amp;A expenses of 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
The remaining increases in these three cost categories primarily relate to the mix of volume growth and integration costs.
I want to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Second quarter 2015 interest expense was $92 million which includes $12 million of non-cash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 36.3% in the second quarter and 37.8% on a year-to-date basis.
The lower tax rate in the second quarter reflects a $0.03 benefit from favorably settling certain tax matters.
We expect an effective tax rate of approximately 39.5% in the second half of the year.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was $410 million and in line with our expectations.
Cash flow can vary quarter-to-quarter based upon the timing of cash taxes and working capital.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Don.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Chuck.
In closing we continue to see a broad and sustained recovery in our solid waste business.
Improving fundamentals together with solid operational execution have resulted in EPS and free cash flow growth and margin expansion.
I am proud of how we continue to execute our business plan and our strong performance reflects the hard work from the entire Republic team.
We continue to manage the business to create long-term value and remain focused on executing our strategy.
At this time operator I would like to open the call to questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
First question will come from Tyler Brown with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good afternoon guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Tyler.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey so Chuck you kind of hit on this but it looks like the overall EBITDA margins were roughly flat if you take in totality and I guess that doesn't really jive with the 2.4% average yield.
You know I would expect to see some margin expansion with pricing over 2% especially when you are growing volumes and fuel falling.
My hunch is that Tervita kind of mixed away some of the good things in core solid waste.
Is there any way that you could isolate or give us some numbers around what the core solid waste margins did? Yes sure Tyler.
So quarter-over-quarter solid waste which includes yield obviously was up about 60 basis points so very solid growth from that portion of the business.
You know recycling as we have talked about was a headwind of about 30 basis points.
And then E&amp;P obviously Tervita including integration costs is a negative about 30 basis points and that's what gets you to kind of flat year-over-year.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent very good.
And then I also I kind of want to – I get it that about 50% of your market is in the restricted piece and let's call it 50% in the open and I know 60% of the restricted is in CPI but actually I want to ask about the other 40% that isn't tied directly in with CPI but it is "restricted." So can you kind of help us understand what we should expect core pricing trends to be in that bucket as we move out to 2016 and what really moves that piece of the business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right so let's put the pieces together right? So half of our revenue is restricted half of it is open market.
Of the restricted piece we say 60% of that is tied to some kind of an index right? We will come back to that.
The rest that's restricted is it might be a fixed price increase it might be not tied to an index but have a 2% 3% 4% increase already built into the contract.
And those might be large industrial accounts they could be national accounts things like that.
So you know what moves the pricing in that part of the business is just our further commitment to pricing intelligently our business and knowing when to walk away from business.
You know we mentioned Chuck mentioned in his results that – or in his comments that one of the things that impacted volume was some loss of some national account business and some broker business that we define as non-regrettable.
So you know we're going to continue to look at business and all customers aren't created equally.
So the capture tool the PBS training that we talked about all those things are proving valuable throughout our business we are going to continue to move price.
We think now with what we've been seeing that price for the full year will be closer to 2% based on all of these actions.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
So that restricted piece that's not tied to CPI doesn't necessarily move in sympathy with CPI its actually fairly independent? Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It is somewhat independent and again there are many different versions of contracts within that bucket but we're basically taking our same sort of core philosophy on pricing throughout our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Levine with Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Okay good afternoon guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Scott.
So I guess you mentioned use of these revenue enhancing initiatives kind of driving some of your ability to get price and volume and better rate than you guys have I think over the last few years.
I was hoping you might to be able to elaborate on that a bit more.
The pricing metrics in particular over the last couple quarters have been surprisingly good.
Is there anything going on in the marketplace that is driving this or is it more internal in your opinion? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think there's a lot going on.
Let's talk first about our efforts right? So we have put an incredible focus on customer experience on service delivery on our fleet initiatives so our fleet is more reliable today our customer delivery is better we think we're extending customer loyalty and we think we're earning that price increase more easily from our customers.
So that's at work.
I think we are easier to do business with than we were a year and two years ago.
So we are increasing the value proposition that's part of it.
We are going out with higher price increases.
We've got more confidence in earning that price increase or asking for little higher price in the open market and getting it.
Specifically also on the recycling business in the open market with the way that recycling commodity prices dropped pretty quickly in the first half of the year we went right to work on pricing that open market recycling business and as we said in our comments we've moved the prices up substantially in that segment.
So that's driving it.
Certainly when there is volume growth in the marketplace market dynamics change.
Generally speaking I think competition is less likely to go out aggressively for competitive waste streams when they are getting waste streams organically.
So I think that's happening I think that's just sort of normal supply and demand kind of activity that happens in a marketplace.
We are using our tools right? So capture is rolled out to all of our areas across the country.
That gives us – it makes us more efficient in talking to customers and calling on new accounts it makes the selling process better and more desirable and enjoyable for our customers and it gives us better pricing control at that point of decision.
So that's happening that's helping affect churn.
And then PBS tied to that training we're also have refined our sales compensation plans et cetera.
So there's a lot of work inside the company that's doing that.
Again a normal growth environment organically would be a better market to get price in.
And then obviously on the municipal side of the business we talked about moving a portion of that business to the better index and so every quarter now we've reported an increase in moving more customers to the new index that's more in line with our cost structure.
We are going to continue that hard work and over time we will move the needle consistently and basically kind of re-imagine how we price municipal customers because we have to have an index that's fair.
So it's a mouthful but all those things working together for the greater good here.
Yeah that's helpful.
Thank you.
And as my follow up I guess here so with the dividend hike I have that equating to about I don't know 55% to 60% of your free cash flow target for this year.
I know you are buying back stock so that share base comes down but you know that coupled with the fact that you guys are spending little bit more on acquisitions last year and on pace to do so again this year is there any thought we should have in terms of what kind of guides the thought process on the dividend which I know is a board decision but are you guys comfortable? I don't know where the leverage sits today but maybe just a little bit more color around that? You know we are certainly comfortable with the leverage where it's at today.
And you know keep in mind also that we are going to be growing the EBITDA of the company.
When we think about dividend growth we think about growing dividends in line with our growth in free cash flow so that's something that's very very comfortable for us.
You know a 7% growth in the dividend this quarter is right in line with our five-year CAGR and it's obviously something that we are all very comfortable with that the board's very comfortable with.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Scott we expect the leverage to continue to drop through the course of the year to sub-three.
We anniversary some events the business continues to perform and grow as Chuck said so we are very comfortable with the leverage.
And we do a very in-depth discussion with our board every year on our financial policies and cash allocation.
We had a very big discussion with our board this week on the dividend.
We always had that kind of holistic view of cash for acquisitions cash for dividend and for buyback.
And so we'll continue to do that and we think this is right sort of balanced approach to efficiently return cash to shareholders.
And the question was do we have confidence; we wouldn't have done if we didn't have confidence in it.
Understood.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Michael Hoffman with Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much for taking my questions Don Chuck and Brian.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Michael.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
On the operating leverage of the business when I think about Chuck's comment that there was 60 basis points of leverage on solid waste but it's offset by 60 basis points from recycling E&amp;P how do I think about that tracking into the second half? Is the 60 on the E&amp;P and recycling kind of going to be a constant but the solid waste should have some acceleration maybe running towards 100 basis points? I think it's going to be relatively consistent Michael over the course of the remainder of the year.
I don't see the headwind – we are not forecasting the headwind in recycling to go away anytime soon and we're certainly not calling for an upturn in oil rigs.
We don't see that anytime real soon.
So I think that that headwind's going to consist – stay consistent.
I would also say that we feel very comfortable with the increase in solid waste and we think that we're going to continue to benefit from the initiatives that Don had talked about as well as our continued focus in on driving up our yield.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so Michael I'll add to that.
I look at that as upside right? Because the underlying business the majority of our business our solid waste business is performing very well and we've got these two components right? Recycling is 9% of our revenue commodity sales is about half of that 9% and then our E&amp;P business is less than 2% of our overall business.
So we've got these two sort of micro verticals here that you know are fairly volatile.
But we are confident that they'll return; we're bringing more focus to the recycling space than we ever have.
So as we get those businesses to come around and the broader macro environment improves that's just sort of added fuel to an already very well operating and performing core business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay so just so I make sure I understood it – this isn't my second question operator...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh I think it is Michael.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Then well just so I – so the 60 stays 60 as the headwind 3Q 4Q but the 60 that was solid waste should improve – maybe it's 70 80; 80 goes to 90 100 3Q 4Q that's the way to think about it based on what you all have just said? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah well if you think about it one of the big points of – that when Chuck mentioned the headwind from E&amp;P integration some of the integration cost is going to taper down right? And then obviously as you know you've followed this business a long time there's a lot of moving parts in mix geographical business mix some of the cycles of pricing and as we said we expect pricing to be more like 2% for the full year now.
But yeah I mean it's – we think the underlying performance of the business improves from here.
And we've got to continue to do same things we've been doing.
We've got to continue to have success in moving to the new index in the municipal business and it's going to depend a little bit on the macro environment a little bit on the market dynamic.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the underlying volume trend should we see a year-over-year improvement in the second half relative to the first half as the drivers of this continue to improve? Residential construction non-residential construction it turns into more volume in the cans the whole bit? Yeah I think based Michael on where we are right now and what we see in the future you know we feel comfortable with the volume for the year up about 1.5%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So to your point on more volume in the cans we are seeing some pretty good trends in service increases less decreases.
We didn't talk about that in our comments but that's all continues to trend very well.
But again as you know we've all thought this thing was going to recover quicker than it did and so I want to temper you know everyone's excitement.
I mean we feel really good about the business we are very proud of the team but let's see how things let's see how the market and the macro issue sort of comes around in Q3.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Well nice job in the quarter.
Thank you for everything.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Michael.
Thanks Mike.
The next question will come from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Hey Joe.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Joe.
Inc.</span></strong> Don could you just put some figures or maybe at least some color around the reduction in rollbacks and churn that you alluded to earlier? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we can do that.
You want to give him some stats Brian? Joe if you kind of take a look at each of those components right so we talk about call it gross price what we're going out to the market with to our customers as well as the impact of rollback and then obviously that impacted churn.
And if you kind of take a look at the sequential improvement in yield from 2.1% to 2.4% each of those components had a relatively equal contribution.
So think of it like 10 basis points each getting better sequentially from each of those three components that is basically the way that you compute average yield.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay understood.
Yeah interesting that you guys are actually capturing a greater percentage of that whereas it looks like one of your competitors is capturing less which might be a mix issue.
But maybe switching gears for my follow-up Don I get the $0.01 hit from commodity prices sold.
I'm just curious how you view that.
Is it theoretically possible that – or is it positive that your third-party MRF vendors are actually doing away with rebates now? Does it suggest that maybe there's some momentum in the industry to pushing back on recycling and theoretically this business can be structurally improved? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it's theoretical yes right.
So I'll tell you what's happened historically when we've seen down cycles in recycling is just about the time the market starts to sort of revolt and raise prices and maybe constrain some service the volume – or the commodity prices bounce back and then the market doesn't really change very much.
So the fact that this has been so steep and I would say sustained probably we've had great luck with moving prices forward in the open market which says frankly customers are willing to pay almost as much for recycling as waste.
And then we've done a lot of customer insight work in our marketing group here and customers are telling us that it's important.
If it's really important to them they're willing to pay for it.
So customer demand should accompany willingness to pay and that's our view.
Now in the – the open market's one thing because the contractual obligations that we have with customers are different and shorter term.
A lot of our recycling is done with municipalities; those are longer-term contracts as I said in my comments.
Those will take longer to turn but I'll guarantee you this our team here our recycling group our operating group our sales team our pricing team all working very diligently together to think about how we are going to as I said re-imagine the recycling business here of the future and our view is that it's not going to be the same way it occurs today it just can't be.
And so the overarching point there is if we want recycling to really truly be sustainable sustainability can't happen without consistent profitability.
It's just impossible.
And so we've got to find a new way to make the model truly sustainable therefore sustainably or consistently profitable.
That's again a mouthful but it's what we're working on.
We're still committed to it because our customers want it and as I said if they really demand it then that should be accompanied with willingness to pay.
Inc.</span></strong> Appreciate it thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from Ken Layne (34:43) with First Analysis.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Hey Ken (34:50).
Let's see just a little bit more on the pricing side again.
It looks this was the second quarter where average yield came in above 2%.
I just want to see if you have any view or expectations for the remainder of the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we are not going to give you quarterly expectations because I've said I think pricing will look more like 2% the original guidance we gave you was 1.5%.
So all these things coming together again the tools being deployed you know the benefit of organic growth all the things I mentioned earlier yeah we think we'll continue to see that kind of pricing for the reminder of the year.
You know we do have a couple of things on the forefront here the comp gets a little bit tougher in the second half for the year we have some one time pricing actions that we took in the second half of last year that don't happen again in 2015 but all-in we think pricing will be a pretty good story for us from here out through the end.
Sure thanks.
That's helpful.
And then I guess switching gears a little bit more on the recycling side are you expecting sort of any improvement in the back half of the year just given some of the recent stabilization in the commodity pricing environment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No the guidance we've given you assumes that recycling stays flat commodity sales just stay flat from here for the remainder of the year.
If it takes a bounce that will be a little bit of upside for us.
Sure sure okay.
Great.
Well thanks guys and good job.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
How are you guys? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good Alex how are you today.
Good Don thanks.
On the cost side so just looking at the details that you provide so buckets like labor and related benefits maintenance and repair SG&amp;A I think of those as relatively fixed and so buckets where you should have leverage on when volumes start to really pick up.
And just looking at the year-over-year change on those costs it sounds like they are up almost in that high single-digit range.
So just on those buckets can you just talk about why we are seeing that kind of inflation there? May be zoning in on the repair side where you have one fleet happening I mean I would think at some point those costs are to start to level out for you? Yeah you know so Alex you've got to keep in mind also what I said during my comments that you've got a 250 basis point reduction in revenue and that reduction in revenue is driving an increase in those costs in terms of a percentage of revenue.
So if you – some of the lines items that you called out are some of the larger cost categories.
So in terms of labor that's about 40 basis points of the overall increase.
It's about 20 basis points on the maintenance side and just for reference it's 20 basis points on the SG&amp;A also.
So you got to take that into consideration when you're looking at the basis point increase year-over-year.
The other thing that we need to take into consideration is the mix of business year-over-year.
As we've mentioned the volume increases that we got have really been focused in on the industrial business and on the residential business and there's not as much – our ability to leverage those costs isn't quite as great as some of the other cost categories.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So remember too we've got acquisitions year-over-year we've got volume growth and as it relates to maintenance specifically we pointed out a couple of times before while we're very pleased with our One Fleet initiative and it's exactly the right thing to do when we started that program we did not see some of the fleet complexity coming our way.
So we do have some cost increases coming from the new cleaner engines and some of that.
So – and I'll just remind everybody we didn't talk about it here on the call but one of the paybacks on One Fleet is the – aging the fleet in a methodical fashion and getting that CapEx savings that we've talked about a number times; one-time $200 million savings plus the ongoing benefit of running a fleet that's about a year older which is about $15 million a year in CapEx.
So maintenance specifically is – we're getting a great payback on that.
One finer point also I think on the labor side to keep in mind is that we did call out some integration costs this year and that's obviously included in the labor numbers.
Yeah and Alex just to put some numbers around the acquisition and volume growth that Don was talking about our acquisition revenue is up 2.7% year-over-year and volume's up 1.1%.
So when you add those types of revenue it's going to come along with it costs and so when you're just looking at cost change expressed as a percentage year-over-year you've got to include those revenues as well.
Yeah okay I appreciate everybody's thoughts there.
And then in the filing the 8-K you do break out an E&amp;P waste services revenue number; I think it's $27 million for the quarter? So is that essentially the Tervita revenue that you're reporting? Yes that's Tervita; that's primarily the Tervita revenue.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Hello Al.
Inc.</span></strong> Hope you're all doing well.
I want to focus on core price for a minute and I joined a little late so I apologize if – I know you had 3.8% for the quarter; I am not sure what it was in the first quarter.
But my question is driven at the open market piece and in particular if the volume trends are favorable why we should not expect that number that contribution of open market pricing to be better going forward? Or is that the real reason why guidance is being lifted? Yeah I think what we're saying is that we are lifting guidance because of the favorability that we're seeing right now in our solid waste business.
You know what I called out before is a 60 basis point increase in margin year-over-year due to the solid waste business.
Keep in mind also that if you kind of look at our increasing guidance overall a good portion of that increase is really due to the solid waste business and – which is primarily yield.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and it's being offset by a couple of things; we called out the commodities.
We called out some of the headwind from E&amp;P.
But you are right the core business is operating very well and as we turn around these two very small parts of our business although obviously volatile parts of our business that will all come in behind it so...
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're on the right track.
The business is doing very well Al.
Inc.</span></strong> No I hear you.
And I guess the question that – the follow-on to that would be at some point we'll start to see that in terms of the EBITDA margin.
I know there's number of moving parts and we need that restricted portion to get north to 2% to give you some help? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well another way of saying it right is if recycling hadn't cratered on us and E&amp;P hadn't dried up right our margins would have been up 60 basis points.
So that's it.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a follow up I guess; one of your competitors articulated probably for the first time their affection for another price index as well and I know you've talked about it's a slow process but can you give any more insights in terms of how that's going? I know it's a process but in terms of the realization of the new index on the customers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right so we've said that approximately what $2.4 billion of our business is that again that 30% right.
So it is restricted to some type of index.
What we've been talking about lately is about $800 million of that piece is the smaller municipal contract generally residential only call it a five-year contract.
So that $800 million that's the first piece we've been working on to move to a new index.
We've now moved $150 million of that business $150 million of the $800 million to a new index that's confirmed.
Still working on the balance.
And as you would expect logically when we try to change how this occurs with our customers and within the market we will start with smaller contracts and having good success.
The remaining $1.7 billion is larger contracts and franchise agreements that tend to run a lot longer than five years and also include oftentimes commercial small container large container business.
So we're up to $150 million out of the targeted $800 million.
We're progressing every quarter.
We don't know how far it will go we're certainly making strong arguments and frankly successful arguments for it and we'll continue to do it.
Again the overarching issue here is in these kind of public-private partnerships they've got to be mutually beneficial; it's unrealistic for our municipal partners to expect us to settle for an index that doesn't adequately cover our inflation.
So we've got to cover our inflation net of productivity on a consistent basis.
That's reasonable it's fair and that's one of the reasons we're getting it done.
The fact that there is this water-sewer-trash index something we can point to that's been in use now for what 15 years or whatever is helping.
And so it's too early to tell how long it's going to take and how far it's going to go.
I can tell this we're not going to stop pushing.
And that's – we'll update you every quarter as we go through time but that's certainly helping and will certainly show some benefit into next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Just in terms of the customer feedback maybe you don't want to share but I guess if it's helpful for them on their side of the equation there would seem to be reasons that the acceptance rate would be high going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so it's fair it's equitable and in some cases it's helpful for them especially those municipalities that have their own sewer and water infrastructure that has been struggling to keep up with the pace of inflation.
Frankly we weren't the only ones that didn't know that this sewer water – water-sewer-trash index existed so we're shedding a lot of light on that.
And so again progress continues and we're hopeful and confident that we'll have another positive update for you as we go through the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
That will conclude the question and answer session.
I will turn the conference back to Don for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thank you Gabrielle.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work their commitment and most of all dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today everyone.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Call for Investors in Republic Services.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
Today's call is being recorded and all participants are in listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session following Republic’s summary of quarterly earnings.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Brian DelGhiaccio Senior Vice President of Finance.
Good afternoon Mr.
DelGhiaccio.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services' third quarter 2015 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO and Chuck Serianni our CFO are joining me as we discuss our performance.
I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or a recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is October 29 2015.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with a recording of this call are all available on Republic's website at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences.
When events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our website.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
Our third quarter results represent another solid performance by the Republic team.
We continue to successfully execute our plan resulting in improved pricing positive volumes and growth in earnings and free cash flow.
We are realizing the benefits of our strategic initiatives while capitalizing on the steady improvement in solid waste trends.
Some of our third quarter and year-to-date highlights include third quarter EPS was $0.53 and year-to-date free cash flow was $603 million.
Both performance measures were in line with our expectations.
Third quarter EBITDA margin was 28.1% which is consistent with the prior year.
Year-to-date EBITDA margin was 28.4% which is in line with our full-year guidance.
Core price in the third quarter was 3.6% and average yield was 2.5%.
The sequential increase in yield performance reflects an improvement in the level of churn.
We define churn as the revenue per unit difference between new and lost business.
Third quarter volumes increased 60 basis points.
Our collection volumes increased 1.1% which continues to demonstrate that we can grow price and volume simultaneously.
During the quarter we invested $24 million in tuck-in acquisitions at a post-synergy EBITDA multiple of approximately 5.5 times.
We remain on track to invest approximately $100 million in tuck-in acquisitions this year.
As part of our efficient capital allocation strategy we returned approximately $600 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchase since the beginning of the year.
This includes 7.4 million shares repurchased for $298 million.
Our Board recently approved a $900 million increase to our existing share repurchase authorization and extended the term through December 2017.
We continue to make progress on our multi-year initiatives that enable us to execute our strategy of profitable growth through differentiation.
Regarding our revenue enhancing initiatives all of our markets are using our Capture cloud-based pricing tool.
90% of our sales force has been trained on priority based selling or PBS.
We will be fully rolled out by the end of the year.
We are seeing very encouraging customer engagement on our digital platform.
Approximately 1.1 million customers have enrolled in our My Resource customer portal and mobile app significantly enhancing our customer interaction and connectivity.
And finally regarding our municipal business we have over 400 contracts with approximately $200 million in annual revenue that now use an alternative index for their annual price adjustment.
All of these revenue enhancing initiatives are designed to improve the customer experience and further differentiate our services from the competition which adds value to our offering builds customer loyalty and increases willingness to pay.
Importantly we are realizing the benefits of these initiatives as evidenced by our fourth straight quarter of sequential pricing improvement and highest level of reported average yield since 2009.
Regarding our fleet 16% of our total fleet now operates on natural gas.
71% of our fleet is currently automated and 74% of our total fleet has been certified under our One Fleet maintenance program.
Turning to our recycling business.
We remain focused on converting to a fee-based model with a more equitable commodity revenue sharing mechanism.
This allows us to recover our costs and earn a reasonable return on capital deployed while reducing earnings volatility from fluctuating recycle commodity prices.
We’ve advanced this initiative and are making progress.
For example we met with most of our municipal customers whose processing contracts are coming to term in the next 24 months.
We are educating them on the economics of recycling and the need to transition to a more durable model.
To give you some context on why this is achievable we recently were successful in transitioning one of our largest municipal recycling contracts to a fee based processing model.
This customer values our recycling services and wants to ensure the viability of recycling for their community.
Additionally we remain purposeful when renewing existing contracts or considering new business opportunities.
In situations where the customer is unwilling to consider more equitable terms we are simply choosing not to participate.
It will take time to realize the full impact of our efforts since most of our recycle business is performed on behalf of municipal customers under multi-year contracts.
But we remain committed since recycling is a core component of our business.
We believe that improving the profitability of recycling ensures its sustainability which benefits the environment our shareholders our customers and the communities we serve.
Chuck will now discuss the financial results.
Thanks Don.
Third quarter 2015 revenue was approximately $2.3 billion an increase of $76 million prior year.
This 3.4% increase in revenue includes internal growth of 1% and acquisitions 2.4%.
The components of internal growth are as follows.
First average yield growth of 2.5% average yield in the collection business was 3.2% which includes 3.6% yield in the small container commercial business 4.4% yield in the large container industrial business and 1.6% yield in the residential business.
Average yield in the post-collection business was 70 basis points which includes landfill MSW of 1%.
Core price which measures price increases that are rollbacks was 3.6%.
Core price consisted of 4.7% in the open market and 1.8% in the restricted portion of our business.
Second our volume increased 60 basis points year-over-year.
The collection business increased 1.1% which includes positive contribution from the industrial business of 2.5% and the residential business of 1%.
The commercial business was flat with the prior year.
Our commercial volume performance includes 40 basis point decline from non-regrettable losses of select national accounts customers and work performed on behalf of brokers.
The post-collection business made up of third-party landfill and transfer station volumes decreased 1.1%.
Landfill decreased 1% which includes positive MSW volumes of 3.3% and C&amp;D at 6.2% offset by a decline in special waste volumes of 6.7%.
Approximately half of the decline in landfill special waste relates to events driven jobs and the rest of the decline relates to a same-store E&amp;P volumes.
It should be noted that we had very tough comparison in the prior year since we accepted a record level of special waste in the third quarter of 2014.
Now fuel recovery fees decreased next fuel recovery fees decreased by 150 basis points.
The change relates to the decline in the cost of fuel which decreased approximately $35 million compared to the prior year.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased $2.63 in the third quarter from $3.84 in the prior year a decrease of 31%.
The current average diesel price is $2.50 per gallon.
We recover approximately 80% of our total fuel costs to our fuel recovery fee program.
Additionally 20% of our diesel gallons are hedged using financial hedges.
At current participation levels a $0.20 per gallon change in diesel results in a $1 million change in annual operating income.
Finally commodity revenue decreased 60 basis points.
The decrease in commodity sales primarily relates to a decrease in recycled commodity prices.
Commodity prices at our recycling facilities decreased 15% to an average price of $99 per ton in the third quarter from $116 per ton in the prior year.
Current commodity prices are approximately $96 per ton.
Third quarter recycling volume of 673 000 tons represents an increase of approximately 20% from the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions volumes were up approximately 5% primarily due to an increase in lower margin compost sales.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities was flat to the prior year.
Now I will discuss changes in margin.
Third quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.1% which was consistent with the prior year.
Margin expansion in the solid waste business of 50 basis points was offset by the impact of recent acquisitions of 30 basis points and lower recycle commodity prices of 20 basis points.
The 50 basis point expansion in the solid waste business consisted of lower fuel costs of 50 basis points and price in excess of cost inflation of 20 basis points which was partially offset by a change in business mix of 20 basis points.
The change in business mix results from volume growth in our collection business offset by volume declines in our higher-margin landfill business.
The change in landfill volumes exclusively relates to decline in special waste tons.
During the quarter we saw margin expansion in all of our solid waste lines of business with the exception of landfill.
Given the fixed cost nature of the landfill business a decrease in volume generally results in a decline in margin.
When looking at individual cost line items as a percentage of revenue there is an impact from the decrease in fuel recovery fee in sale of recycle commodity revenue.
For example the 2.1% decline in these revenues resulted in increases in labor expense of 30 basis points repairs and maintenance expense of 20 basis points and SG&amp;A expense of 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
I want to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Third-quarter 2015 interest expense was $92 million which includes $12 million of non-cash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 38.6% in the third quarter and 38.1% on a year-to-date basis.
During the quarter we reported an insurance recovery of $50 million or $0.08 of EPS related to our closed Bridgeton landfill.
We removed this benefit from our adjusted EPS performance for the quarter and full-year financial guidance.
Now I will turn the call back over to Don.
Thanks Chuck.
Before closing I would like to discuss the 2016 preliminary outlook we provided in our earnings release.
We are currently midway through our annual planning process and based on our initial reviews and assuming current business conditions we project the following.
EPS of $2.13 to $2.17 which includes a $0.03 headwind from a non-cash increase in our effective tax rate.
If you exclude the tax rate headwind EPS would be projected at $2.16 to $2.20 or 6% to 8% growth from the midpoint of our 2015 EPS guidance.
Adjusted free cash flow of $790 million to $810 million.
This represents 8% to 10% growth over the midpoint of our 2015 free cash flow guidance.
I want to remind you that approximately 30% of our revenue is restricted based on CPI.
Given the low CPI and low recycled commodity price environment we believe our projected earnings and free cash flow growth is strong and reflects the benefits our strategic initiatives are delivering to offset headwinds that are outside of our control.
Consistent with prior practice we will provide detailed guidance in February 2016.
To conclude we are very pleased with our third quarter performance.
As a result of improving fundamentals together with solid operational execution we expanded solid waste margins by simultaneously growing price and volume.
We made meaningful progress on structurally changing recycling contracts and the use of alternative indices in our municipal customers.
Generated earnings and free cash flow growth keeping us well-positioned to achieve our full-year 2015 financial guidance.
And added $900 million to our existing share repurchase authorization demonstrating our commitment to increase cash returns to shareholders.
As we look forward we expect this positive momentum to continue into 2016.
We will continue to deliver on our promises to our key stakeholders including our customers our communities employees and of course our owners.
We will remain focused on managing the business to create long-term value by executing our strategy of profitable growth through differentiation.
At this time operator we will open the call for questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you speakers our first question is from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Your line is now open.
I want to just focus on the volume collection story.
I think 1.1 in the quarter 0.6 volume I think overall reported.
How is that trending in terms of ’16? Not so much from a guidance standpoint but just from an end market tough comps easy comps because what was very clear is that your residential side was up at least it was positive.
I can’t say so much for your largest competitor on that front.
Before we I’ll give you a little flavor for ’16.
Of course we’re not going to give guidance.
But first for ’15 for the quarter it was good volume growth.
Remember there were a couple of issues in that.
One is the year-over-year comp on special waste.
Last year as Chuck said in Q3 we had a record special waste quarter so still had a strong quarter in special waste in 2015 and the pipeline is still robust just had a tough comp there.
And also we said in the comments we kind of walked away from some business.
It’s a non-regrettable losses in around national accounts and some our broker portfolio so that was an up size event in the quarter of this year.
So we frankly look at our volumes in C&amp;D and in our large container perm business the manufacturing business.
As we said as we roll to the year sequentially we see the growth come down just because the comps got tougher but we still saw plus 2% growth in those lines.
And as we’ve said all along our growth is heavily dependent on household starts.
Good special waste flow good construction business leads to business formation and more broad recovery.
So for 2016 we’re expecting positive growth to continue and of course when you look at our year-over-year guidance that we did provide our preliminary outlook of pretty strong cash flow growth you can hopefully see that we expect that trend to continue in ’16 for us.
Great.
And then if I may my follow-up.
I couldn’t help but to notice on the expense side of things maintenance and repairs up as a percentage of revenue I think 60 basis points year-to-date up above 40 relative comparable period.
So is there anything going on there in terms of with automation related maintenance sort of this integration of the trucks? Are there any operational issues that are coming inefficiencies that maybe spiked that a little bit at least on a relative analysis? No I wouldn’t say that there’s any kind of inefficiencies.
Let me explain it this way.
You’re right.
The maintenance costs increase year over year about 60 basis points.
So as we think about that about 20 basis points relates to the reduction in the fuel recovery fee in the commodity revenue.
About 10 basis points is the mix of business that I discussed earlier so that’s the higher collection portion of the business and the lower landfill business.
And about another 20 basis points then is increasing complexity associated with the fleet which we’ve been talking about for a while now.
And so keep in mind we’re about 75% 74% certified on our One Fleet initiative.
We are closer to 90% actually rolled out that last sort of 15% hasn’t been certified yet.
We’ll have One Fleet completed mid next year and start to realize all those benefits.
As we said we’re beginning to very methodically extend the useful life of the fleet.
We’ll do that over the next continue to do that over the next three or four years.
So we’re very happy with our fleet initiative as it’s paying off.
We think we’re going to have the most reliable fleet in the industry here.
By the time we roll this One Fleet completely out next year and we’ll be well-positioned to deal with the fleet complicity issues as they come.
So and again really the issue in the margin is the mix stuff that Chuck described.
And Al a good portion of that complexity is really the compliance with the new emission standards that really began in 2008 and there’s been a couple of generations of those engines but as you add more of those engines post 2008 and you have to comply with those enhanced emissions control that’s basically what we're talking about with enhanced complexity.
So that should start to ease off the burden I should say should start to see less of an impact I guess? Yes.
And then of course there is an impact there’s a cost impact while your rolling out One Fleet change right and when everyone is certified and running under the new standards then we’ll get to bow [ph] away the costs when that starts to dissipate and go away as well.
Thank you.
Scott Levine Imperial Capital.
Your line is now open.
I think Don you mentioned an improvement in churn is kind of a factor behind the improvement in yield there.
Wondering if that’s indicative of a broad trend you’re seeing momentum just a little bit more color with regard to that aspect as the yield figures continue to surprise the upside this year.
Well first of all everything we’ve been doing around the tools we’ve talked about right.
We’ve talked about rolling Capture out which is our cloud-based tool and our tighter sales force now is using the Capture tool so we’ve got as we said the goal there was to get much better control at the point-of-sale in the decision-making process.
Also making that sales team more efficient and effective.
The PBS training we've talked about extensively.
Really targeting more successfully customers that have more willingness to pay and have more sort of interest in value.
That's all happening.
We're actually going out with a little more price because we think the customer base is willing to take it and we frankly think our service levels have increased.
Through fleet reliability lowering turnover improving customer commitments and so on and so forth.
So we think all of that happening from the efforts that we're undertaking as well as frankly the markets rational and there is some positive growth in the market and even the more irrational smaller competitors tend to be more rational when there is some positive organic growth.
So I think all of that together is giving us a better answer in churn but we think certainly some of it is based on the efforts we've made to be more focused in that area.
Got it.
And then as the follow-up I guess you talked about special waste being a negative here I guess a portion of that is the weakness in the energy services in Tervita and a portion of it maybe is kind of the more traditional special waste business.
Can you elaborate further as to maybe the profitability and how that might compare in the MSW side of your landfill business and should we expect that non-energy portion to come back in the fourth quarter? Or might that continue? Maybe a little bit more elaborate in the energy or I'm sorry the special waste pipeline in general.
Let separate the two.
Let me first start by saying that the E&amp;P business is 1% of our revenue.
Okay so that's really not the tail that's wagging the dog here.
Our special waste year-over-year comp was tough because our ‘14 special waste was a banner year.
But we still had a very good a quarter in special waste.
We've got a full pipeline.
So our special waste sales team is very confident that we're not seeing a slowdown there.
So we think that special waste is good.
As far as E&amp;P goes you read the papers right so I don't know that we're going to have a big recovery in Q4.
There are -- we're hearing bits and pieces of good news and some new wells being drilled and so forth out there but I think we'd like to believe it gets a little better from here.
But again it's a very small part of our business.
So that's really not the headline Scott.
Got it.
So with regard to the volume trajectory here in the fourth quarter not asking for explicit volume guidance but special waste it sounds like expect a continuation from Q3 and then trends in the traditional business should be healthy with a good pipeline? Yes.
So what we're seeing right now Scott is probably volume growth of about 1% for the year.
Got it.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you speakers our next question is from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Your line is now open.
I was thinking about the trajectory on yields so understand CPI has a headwind next year but you've got more volume in the market which helps and you've got the full year of your priority based selling so can you just help us think through of how you're thinking about what yield looks like next year? Yes.
So we're not going to give you yield guidance.
Let me start by saying this.
You know what portion of our portfolio is based on CPI.
We're going to have a headwind just on CPI alone next year year-over-year of about $0.04.
Okay? We're going to overcome that headwind because of all the other things that we're doing in the business.
We talked about all of the other issues that we're doing around priority based selling Capture all the rest of it and again we think volume will continue to be decent in 2016.
So I can't give you much more toward ‘16 than that.
We're going to give you detailed guidance in February.
Just think about that overcoming CPI with about a $0.04 headwind but still a pretty strong EPS performance in that range I gave.
Hey and then this is also sort of a guidance question so hopefully you can answer this one.
But first of all the 2015 guidance you raised the cash flow from OPS guidance.
What's driving that? And then related to that the 2016 the free cash flow guidance growth is above the high end of EPS guidance growth.
Can you just talk about what's driving that if it's CapEx or working capital or cash taxes or something? Yes hey Corey this is Brian.
So if you kind of take a look there's kind of a little bit of a push and pull there so we are anticipating spending a little bit less on cash taxes in 2015 and that was offset by a slight increase in capital spending and the two basically offset each other.
Okay.
Then for 2016 is the fact that free cash flow growth is expected to be higher than EPS growth is that driven by cash taxes or CapEx? It is.
It's actually being driven by bonus depreciation.
So you get less of a reversal than in 2015 excuse me in 2016 than we did in 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you speakers our next question is from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Couple of one’s for you.
So first on the shift of customers from CPI to alternative indices so that’s $200 million now.
I forget exactly over what time period that is.
It sounds like about a year.
Is that the sort of peace we should be thinking about? The goal is about $200 million per annum in terms of shifting from CPI? And just on that $200 million that debt shift out of the gate what sort of impact does that have on pricing? So Alex it’s probably a little bit too early to still unfortunately to give you a cadence because again as you can appreciate some of this depends on the size of the contracts that are coming to term it depends on how frequently we’re opening contracts in the mid-term of a contract.
Many of these changes have happened while the contract is still in place for the opening contracts for other reasons things like service increased levels and those kind of things.
So it’s going to depend on that pace.
It’s also going to depend on basically frankly the market at large and how broadly it’s accepted.
I think we proved in that it can happen and we started this a little over a year ago in earnest.
And so we’re real happy with the progress.
This $200 million is remember on that $800 million municipal vertical and so we’re call it a fourth of the way through that.
And then we’ll be tackling some of the larger contracts that are in that other $1 billion plus of municipal business.
At the same time of course we’re tackling the recycling fees.
So there’s a lot of conversation happening with municipal customers but we think we’re making good progress and we’ll just keep informing you as we go and we’ll be baking we think that trend is into our guidance and we have got it baked into what that preliminary outlook is for 2016 currently.
Got it.
And on the recycling side can you elaborate a little bit more what a fee-based model is.
Is that essentially getting paid for the service and then only sharing in profits on top of what the actual cost to profit the material is? That’s it.
If you’re looking for a job we can put you right on the front line convincing those customers just like you just did right.
So we need to have our cost of capital covered in the fee based.
It basically is a more fair value sharing arrangement.
It gives the municipality much more upside.
It certainly drives them to produce a better quality volume right less contaminate which is important to the overall value of the material when we sell it.
And it just can put excess from downside.
But as I said in my comments municipalities that we want to recycle they want real sustainability.
They want the durability of a program for the consumer base for their ratepayers and this is a fair way to do it.
So we made a pretty major switch in one of our largest if not the largest contract we have and that’s a good place to start.
And we’ll continue to work through the system as we go forward.
Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
And just two quick ones from me.
In terms of industrial volume a lot of talk about parts of the industrial economy that are weakened.
Obviously some way shape or form it’s related to energy and not direct energy has softened.
So anything you guys see in the industrial vertical that gives you pause around volumes looking forward? No not today.
I think again we’ve got continuing in our overall business strong price in industrial we call industrial perm which is in container manufacturing strong price and volume over 5% price in our temp which is our construction part of that large container vertical.
You probably see a little less activity in some of those economies local economies where energy was booming.
There’s certainly less infrastructure being developed than there was a year ago.
That was a good headline story as we came out of the rut.
But the rest of the country is holding up really well.
So those are pretty broad-based numbers.
Got it.
Okay Don.
Thank you very much.
I will turn it over.
You bet.
Your next question is from Joe Box with KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
So you picked up 4.7% core price in your open markets which looks pretty solid to me.
I’m just curious how you guys feel about your price position in those open markets.
Are you meaningfully above the market? Are you in line? I guess what I'm trying to understand is if you have the ability to raise your pricing at a similar trajectory or even higher next year to offset that $0.04 CPI headwind.
The open market has consistently performed for us over the last couple of years and we’ll continue to test the market Joe.
With the tools we have now as you know we can somewhat control the pricing activity the price increase activity here from the corporate center using a process that we internally call RPM.
So every month we’re looking at a portion of the customer base.
It give us the ability to try to understand what price elasticity looks like in a given market.
It allows us to put out an offer accordingly.
We will continue to use that process of service pretty well.
So what we think the pricing for next year is baked into the preliminary outlook we provided.
Again we'll give you a much more detail on that in February.
But all systems seem to be go and the tools are working.
The systems in place are working.
The broader market is holding up well.
The open market is performing well for us.
As I said a pretty rational market overall.
Those are the things we need to see and as I said so many times as long as organic growth continues even the smaller callers tend to have more rational behavior around pricing when they're getting some measure of organic growth.
So those will continue.
I think next year will shape up pretty well for us.
Understood.
Thanks.
And actually just a follow-up on pricing.
Maybe just your current picture.
You mentioned earlier a step-up in price just for your service overall.
I'm curious if that's across-the-board or is it more concentrated in any particular business? Well I think it's pretty strong overall.
Again I just said we got 5% price in our 10th business which is construction.
That's pretty strong and open market small container is probably frankly one of our strongest.
So yes there's no one market that stands out as no one part of the country that stands out in my mind as doing much better than any other part.
It's pretty broad based which to me gives me a lot of confidence.
Got it.
One quick follow-up if you don't mind.
Just relative to the free cash flow guidance for next year do you guys have any CapEx savings baked into from One Fleet or is that more of a 2017 type item? No.
Absolutely.
We've got One Fleet CapEx savings baked in of about $40 million which is consistent with the savings that we saw in 2015.
Keep in mind that what we talk about in terms of One Fleet is $200 million of savings that we're going to realize over the course of the next four or five years or so.
Thank you speakers our next question is from Michael Hoffman with Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Let me follow-up on the free cash just so I haven't actually confused myself listening to all the questions and answers.
If I understood Chuck's comment there will be less cash tax paid because BD winds down incrementally and will you in fact spend less in absolute dollars in capital spending? No.
No.
Okay.
So there's no benefit to capital spending in free cash flow if I wind is back if it's 8 at the midpoint I can walk it back to ex the cash tax issue its 5.6 from good old operations? That's a way to think about it.
So there's free cash flow growth driven by the underlying business ex the cash tax.
Absolutely Michael.
You said it Michael.
All right.
That's what I wanted to make sure I understood.
And then the churn comment I thought was interesting because -- am I wrong in thinking that churn has -- there's all kinds of interesting knock on consequences when churn is coming on and whether what is driving it down or things that happen as a result of being driven down.
One of the biggest meaningful issues is that you don't have so many missed stops and missed stops are about the fleet breaking down and so while we may see R&amp;M up and everybody is wringing their hands about it it clearly has introduced a more reliable fleet which just helps to lower the missed stops and all of those things that happen.
Is that right? That is right.
Okay.
We said it at the very beginning when we launched One Fleet.
We are a fleet-based operation.
We are the eighth largest location fleet in the nation.
Whatever it is 75% of our revenue comes from our collection business.
And we make our money with trucks and very important that we have total fleet reliability.
One Fleet has been about that improving reliability in the fleet which we think improves employee engagement.
It improves driver turnover.
It improves service levels.
It improves our brand on the street.
And so on and so on and so on.
It affects everything we do.
So that's why we poured ourselves into One Fleet.
It also allows us to methodically extend useful life of the fleet.
Again which now we're second year in a row now we're taking benefit in doing that.
Again very methodically over a four to five year period.
Not just flipping a switch but with a better fleet overall.
So yes it runs through the organization.
Again churn is the difference in revenue per unit between gained and lost business.
Right.
That's simple right? So we're also selling new business at a higher rate than we were last year.
So if you signed up with us last year you would maybe pay the slightly lower rate per unit and now we're selling more value where you're paying a higher rate per unit.
So we watch that as well.
So we’re addressing it fundamentally in the operations through being a better service provider creating a better customer experience and we're doing it through our sales efforts and all of our tools and then sort of our centralized controls on RPM et cetera.
All those things got to work together to really drive churn in the right direction.
Again as I said the fact that the market is rational and there's organic growth that certainly helps our cause.
Right.
And the other secondary benefit of that is all of those service issues everybody is happier coupled with good volume underlying good volume in the market means you are keeping more of the price you are going to the market with.
That’s… That’s absolutely right.
We’re going out with higher prices to the customer and a rollbacks are less.
So we are keeping a higher percentage of a higher number.
And again it’s a big business with a lot of moving parts and we’ve got to do a lot of things right every day but all those efforts are showing up in churn.
Right.
Okay.
So I’ve always thought of garbage as evolutionary not revolutionary.
The evolution here is the steady reliable improving trend in the right direction.
There you go.
Okay.
One thing.
Special waste I get the comp in the third quarter.
Is there a rollover of any of that into the fourth quarter? So I’m just thinking about how to gauge my year-over-year trend.
No.
I wouldn’t say that there’s as much rollover.
We heard that some of the jobs that were scheduled to take place in the third quarter might have gotten pushed but we’re thinking that they’re probably more pushed into the first and second quarters of next year.
So I would say Michael there’s not a lot of rollover into the fourth quarter this year.
But the fourth quarter comp for us is maybe a little tougher than norm to your point.
We had this record year in Q3 last year.
We had a pretty strong Q4 in special waste last year.
But then normalizes after that.
Got it.
The report in from the sales team is not that the pipeline is drying up just that we probably gave them too big of a goal.
Last year we had this record year so we tend to put the goals out there but we still feel pretty confident that the special waste is not drying up.
It’s continuing and next year’s trend will be pretty solid.
And to hit the 1% for the full year 4Q would be up sequentially.
It has to be.
Or relatively consistent with Michael.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
You bet Michael.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is Tony Bancroft with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Taking into account all that you had in your prepared comments regarding the recycling and the answers you gave in the previous questions can you still give us sort of a give me an overall what's like a realistic long-term goal for the percent switchover? I mean is it 100% is it 50% can you give me what’s the appetite for or the attitude of a customer in that capacity? If all of our customers are listening in all of my sales organization is listening the long-term goal is 100%.
Because frankly again you can’t have a business model that doesn’t return your cost to capital.
Okay.
And our recycling business today is improving because we’re improving operating costs.
Because we’re shutting facilities.
We’re actually investing in some facilities where we have good public/private partnerships who are willing to pay for recycling.
But we’re going to change the model because we’ve got this macro thing going on with China.
We don’t how long it’s going to last but that’s the new norm.
We can’t live in that norm.
We’ve got to live in a different world and that’s the conversation we had with a large customer that we described.
So that gives me great hope that we can do it.
We certainly have the appetite to do it and we’re not going to have a business that doesn’t return its cost to capital and give us good earnings results.
On the new indices it’s the same thing.
A $0.04 headwind next year because CPI is going to knock us on our can so we can’t live that way.
We have about $0.03 for every dollar of revenue around here goes to pay people right.
We are a people intensive business.
We are a capital intensive business and got to replace truck’s containers got to pay your people well if you want to attract the best people and those people expect earnings increases and the last I checked healthcare is not getting cheaper right so CPI doesn’t cut it.
If you are a business owner out there and you’re willing to live with 0.5% price increases in your contracts you’re going to be sad by the time you get to the fifth year of your contract.
That’s what we’ve been living through.
So we’ve found other ways around it now.
We finally said enough is enough last year and we started to move the index out and a lot of people said it couldn’t be done.
The market wouldn’t go for it.
We now have got 25% of that market vertical converted.
And we’re not stopping there.
It’s just a matter of the pace.
And again we’re going to make the appropriate returns for our owners in this business.
We don’t have to haul everybody’s garbage.
We just have to haul garbage for people that want good quality service for a fair price.
And then switching over to M&amp;A for the back end of the year here.
Could you go through maybe what the pipeline mix might be? I know that you said E&amp;P is obviously only a small part of the business but what that would potentially be and then in the traditional solid waste side.
Most of it.
Most of it’s going to be traditional solid waste.
Some of those tuck-ins come with a little bit of recycling along with them so we take that along with it.
There may be in the NPS at out there two.
If you could buy it right now but everyone is scared of it.
We still think it's a good business through the cycle.
We think it's going to come back over time and we're going to be happy with it but like the assets we own like the people that we have in that business.
We'll be selective but there might be a little bit of that.
Again that's not going to be the headline Tony.
The tuck-ins in the solid waste business come with very low risk very high return.
Again as I said low multiples net of synergy and our ability to integrate those is very very quick.
So we go from purchase date to with 120 days basically collecting the money and seeing the synergy benefits.
So that's where we're going to play.
Right and then just in that solid waste side any potential $75 million ones like larger tuck-in or are they all going to be sort of small? No we don't see them on the horizon right now.
There's really nothing out there that's really of that size that's interesting.
They tend to be very small.
But as we always say as a qualifier we try to maintain a very flexible financial position.
Even with this new upsized stock authorization we got from our Board.
We have the flexibility to buy a little more if we want and if something of size comes on the market we'll be able to take a good strong look at it.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
[Technical difficulty] Our next question is from Charles Carter from Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon.
Chuck to go back to comments about kind of the solid waste margin expansion of 50 bps year-over-year you said there was also a 20 basis point headwind from recycling and then I think you also pointed out a 30 basis point headwind from I didn't catch that one.
Yes so the 30 basis point headwind in addition to that was from recent acquisitions including integration costs associated with those acquisitions.
Okay.
And then are you able to parse out what Tervita did? How that factored into the margin? Yes so when we think about that 30 basis points I just talked about I would say the majority of that is Tervita.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then my next question is given where diesel prices are fuel and kind of the sub $50 per barrel oil environment we're in is this kind of altering your CNG investments at all? Or how is that changing things in 2016 versus say 2015? You will see it's just like we did in ‘15.
We geared more of our purchase around CNG vehicles to facilities that we already had made the infrastructure investment in right? So the goal is once the infrastructure is in place to convert the entire fleet at that local division to CNG.
We saw less investment in new infrastructure around CNG in ‘15 and ‘14.
We're still going through that calculation in ‘16 but we think CNG still is an overall sort of good investment.
Remember we are only converting to CNG for our replacement vehicles.
We've got to buy whatever it is 1 000 trucks a year as the old ones roll off and we're replacing those in some cases with CNG.
So we’re not going out and accelerating our fleet purchases just because natural gas is a good deal.
So we like almost everything else we do we sometimes get criticized for kind of taking the slow play on it but very slow methodical logical and as the market shift moves we think overall that's the right approach and you'll see more of that in CNG next year and we've taken some parts [ph] to recycling.
We never jumped all in with both feet.
We just kind of moved forward in the recycling business in a methodical way.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have questions today.
I will now turn the call back to Don Slager for any closing remarks.
Well thank you Tori.
I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work their commitment and of course all your dedication and excellence and creating the Republic way.
Thank you for spending time with us today.
Have a good evening and be safe out there.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Republic Services conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Republic Services Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Investor Conference Call.
Republic Services is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RSG.
All participants in today's call will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Brian DelGhiaccio Senior Vice President of Finance.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
I would like to welcome everyone to Republic Services fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Don Slager our CEO and Chuck Serianni our CFO are joining me as we discuss our performance.
I would like to take a moment to remind everyone that some of the information we discuss on today's call contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties and may be materially different from actual results.
Our SEC filings discuss factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
The material that we discuss today is time sensitive.
If in the future you listen to a rebroadcast or a recording of this conference call you should be sensitive to the date of the original call which is February 11 2016.
Please note that this call is the property of Republic Services Inc.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Republic Services is strictly prohibited.
I want to point out that our SEC filings our earnings press release which includes GAAP reconciliation tables and a discussion of business activities along with the recording of this call are all available on Republic's Web site at republicservices.com.
And finally I want to remind you that Republic's management team routinely participates in investor conferences when events are scheduled the dates times and presentations are posted on our Web site.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Brian.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter and full year results which exceeded the upper-end of our financial guidance.
As a result of successfully executing our strategy the Republic team delivered higher levels of pricing reported positive volumes grew earnings and free cash flow improved return on invested capital and increased cash returns to shareholders.
During 2015 we made significant progress on our multi-year strategic initiatives.
These initiatives are designed to profitable grow our business enhance the quality of our revenue improve the customer experience and reduce costs.
Regarding our market position we invested $193 million in tuck-in acquisitions nearly 2 times our original goal.
The transactions completed in 2015 represent annual revenue contribution of approximately $143 million at a post synergy EBITDA multiple of 4.3 times.
And we acquired U.S.
assets of Tervita these assets serve as a platform acquisition in the E&amp;P waste sector with attractive long-term fundamentals and opportunities for future growth.
Regarding our revenue enhancing initiatives all of our markets are using our Capture cloud-based pricing tool.
And our entire salesforce has been trained on priority-based selling.
Our sales program is designed to identify and to track customers that are willing to pay for our higher value service offerings.
Additionally we now have over 500 contracts with approximately $250 million in annual revenue that use a waste-related index for annual price adjustment.
These waste indices are more closely aligned with our cost structure and had consistently run higher than CPI.
Most importantly we are realizing the benefits of these revenue enhancing initiatives.
During 2015 we reported our highest level of average yield in over five years.
Regarding our customers we continue to see very encouraging customer engagement on our digital platform.
For example approximately 1.2 million customers have enrolled in My Resource our customer portal and mobile app which significantly enhances our customer interaction and connectivity.
And we launched click-to-buy capabilities in approximately 50% of our residential subscription markets.
Click-to-buy addresses the evolving needs of our customers’ buying preferences and provides a lower cost sales channel.
Our customers see the difference in our products and services which is reflected in our customer satisfaction metrics.
Our Net Promoter score which measures customers’ willingness to recommend Company’s products and services improved for the third year in a row.
And finally regarding our fleet-based productivity and cost savings initiatives 16% of our total fleet now operate on natural gas 72% of our residential fleet is currently automated and 78% of our total fleet has been certified under our One Fleet maintenance program up from 60% a year ago.
These initiatives require investment but the payback is compelling and our financial performance reflects the benefits we are seeing.
Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.50 which exceeded our expectations.
Full year adjusted EPS was $2.06 and adjusted free cash flow was $830 million both exceeded the upper-end of our guidance.
Core price in the fourth quarter was 3.4% and average yield was 2.2%.
Average yield exceeded 2% in every quarter during 2015.
Fourth quarter volumes increased 90 basis points this is the 11th consecutive quarter where we have grown price and volumes simultaneously.
We returned $808 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases during 2015.
This includes approximately 10 million shares repurchased for 409 million.
We finished the year with total shareholder return of 12.4% which includes stock appreciation of 9.3% and dividends of 3.1%.
Our TSR performance exceeded the S&amp;P 500 average by over 8 times.
We made substantial progress in 2015 and are proud of our strong results and many accomplishments but we have more to do.
Last month we announced the realignment of our organizational structure by combining two layers into one.
This included the elimination of our three regions the consolidation of 20 areas into 10 and streamlining select positions at our Phoenix headquarters.
We are reinvesting back into our 10 area offices by creating additional operating and functional support roles which puts resources closer to our business and our customers.
Additionally we are investing in our customer service capabilities and are in the process of consolidating over 100 customer service locations into three customer resource centers.
The new state-of-the-art facilities and technology will enable better levels of customer service across several touch points including voice email text social and live chat.
The savings from the realignment are funding the investments we are making in our customer focused initiatives in 2016 and 2017.
We expect these initiatives and realignment will contribute approximately $35 million of annual cost savings beginning in 2018.
Our ability to make these organizational changes is a natural evolution and logical next step for our Company.
As a result of developing standardized processes with rigorous controls we are further leveraging our scale to continually improve our service offerings.
Additionally we are able to maintain our high performance business culture with field management retaining full accountability and P&amp;L responsibility.
We call this approach the Republic Way which we believe is the best way to create durable operational excellence and lasting value for all our stakeholders.
Chuck will now discuss our financial results.
Chuck? Thanks Don.
Fourth quarter 2015 revenue was approximately 2.3 billion an increase of 61 million over the prior year.
This 2.7% increase in revenue includes internal growth of 90 basis points and acquisitions of 1.8%.
The components of internal growth are as follows.
First average yield growth of 2.2%; average yield in the Collection business was 2.7% which includes 3.1% yield in the Small Container Commercial business 3.8% yield in the Large Container Industrial business and 1.5% yield in the Residential business.
Average yield in the Post-Collection business was 70 basis points which includes landfill MSW of 1.5%.
Core price which measures price increases net of roll backs was 3.4%; core price consisted of 4.4% in the open market and 1.7% in the restricted portion of our business.
Second our volumes increased 90 basis points year-over-year; the Collection business increased 90 basis points which includes positive contribution from the Large Container Industrial business of 2.8% and the Residential business of 40 basis points.
The Small Container Commercial business was flat with the prior year.
Our Small Container Commercial volume included a 40 basis point decline from non-regrettable losses of select national accounts and work performed on behalf of brokers.
The Post-Collection business made up of third-party landfill in transfer station volumes increased 1.8%; landfill increased 2.1% which includes positive MSW volumes of 5.5% and C&amp;D of 8.2% offset by a decline in Special Waste volumes of 2.1%.
The decline in Special Waste relates to same-store E&amp;P volumes.
Special Waste volumes excluding E&amp;P waste streams increased 1%.
Next fuel recovery fees decreased 170 basis points the change relates to a decline in the cost of fuel which decreased approximately $33 million compared to the prior year.
The average price per gallon of diesel decreased to $2.44 in the fourth quarter from $3.57 in the prior year a decrease of 32%.
The current average diesel price is $2.01 per gallon.
We recover approximately 80% of our total fuel cost through our Fuel Recovery Fee program.
Additionally 20% of our diesel gallons are hedged using financial hedges.
Finally commodity revenue decreased 50 basis points.
The decrease in commodity sales primarily relates to the decrease in recycled commodity prices.
Average commodity prices for all materials at our recycling facilities decreased 16% to an average price of $95 per tonne in the fourth quarter from $113 per tonne in the prior year.
Excluding glass and organics average commodity prices decreased 14% to an average price of $108 per tonne in the fourth quarter from a $126 per tonne in the prior year.
We believe excluding glass and organics is a better way to report average commodity prices since they are low value waste streams and can skew the average price per tonne.
Our sensitivity to changing commodity prices has always excluded the impact from glass and organics.
Again I want to remind you that a $10 per tonne move in recycling commodity prices results a $0.03 annual EPS impact.
On our Web site we posted the three year history of average commodity prices including and excluding glass and organics.
Fourth quarter total recycling volume of 648 000 tonnes represents the increase of approximately 14% from the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions volumes were up approximately 3%.
Cost of goods sold for recycled commodities was relatively flat with the prior year.
Now I will discuss changes in margin.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 27.2% which was down 80 basis points from the prior year.
The change included a 50 basis point increase in SG&amp;A expenses primarily due to higher levels of incentive compensation and investments and initiatives.
And a 30 basis point decline in EBITDA margin from lower recycle commodity prices.
With respect to higher SG&amp;A costs the increased incentive compensation expense was due to financial outperformance during 2015.
I also want to remind you that we expect the cost savings from the realignment to offset the investments in initiatives beginning in Q1 2016.
On a full year basis EBITDA margin was 28.1% an improvement of 10 basis points over the prior year.
Margin expansion in the Solid Waste business of 90 basis points primarily due to lower fuel costs and pricing in excess of cost inflation which partially offset by the impact of acquisition of 40 basis points and lower recycled commodity prices of 40 basis points when looking at individual cost line items as a percentage of revenue there is an impact from the decrease in fuel recovery fees and the sale of recycled commodity revenue.
For example the 2.2% decline in these revenues resulted in increases in labor expense of 40 basis points and repairs and maintenance expense of 20 basis points.
I want to remind you that we provide a detailed schedule of cost of operations and SG&amp;A expenses in our 8-K filing.
Fourth quarter 2015 interest expense was $93 million which includes $12 million of non-cash amortization.
Our effective tax rate was 34.3% in the fourth quarter and 37.2% for the year.
In 2016 we expect to return to our statutory effective tax rate of approximately 39.5%.
The increase in our tax rate resulted in $0.08 EPS headwind in 2016.
Full year adjusted free cash flow was $813 million.
This performance includes a cash tax benefit from the extension of bonus depreciation of approximately $65 million.
We expect bonus depreciation will provide a cash tax benefit of $30 million in 2016 resulting in a $35 million year-over-year cash tax headwind.
Now I will turn the call back to Don.
Thanks Chuck.
Before I open the call up for questions I will provide our 2016 financial guidance.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $2.13 to $2.17 which is consistent with the preliminary outlook we provided last October.
This continues to demonstrate the stability and predictability of our business.
Our expected performance represents high single-digit earnings growth after excluding the $0.08 headwind from the increase in our effective tax rate.
We anticipate adjusted free cash flow to be in a range of 820 million to 840 million which was upwardly revised from our preliminary outlook due to the extension of bonus depreciation.
This performance represents mid to high single-digit growth after excluding the change in cash taxes.
We expect annual revenue growth of 2.5% to 3% which includes average yield of approximately 2%.
We believe this level of pricing is strong given the 30 basis point headwind from lowest CPI-based presets.
Volume growth in a range of 1.5% to 1% we expect our volume trajectory to be relatively consistent with our full year 2015 performance with the exception of residential due to known contract losses.
Residential volumes are expected to be slightly negative.
Contribution from acquisitions of 1% this relates primarily to tuck-in acquisitions and the rollover impact from 2015 transactions.
And a decline in fuel recovery fees of 1% due to lower diesel prices.
We anticipate an EBITDA margin of approximately 28.5%.
This represents 40 basis points of margin expansion over our 2015 performance.
2016 net capital expenditures are expected to be $900 million or approximately 9.5% of revenue.
This level of spending includes a $60 million benefit from cost effectively extending the useful life of our fleet as a result of our One Fleet maintenance program.
This is in addition to the $40 million of capital we saved during 2015.
We anticipate investing $100 million in tuck-in acquisitions and we expect to return approximately $820 million of total cash to shareholders through $420 million of dividends and $400 million of share repurchases.
I would like to thank the entire Republic team for their contribution that allowed us to meet our objectives and positioned us well for future growth.
During 2016 we will continue to deliver on our promises to our key stakeholders and remain focused on managing the business to create long-term value by executing our strategy of profitable growth through differentiation.
At this time operator I would like to open the call to questions.
Thank you we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] In the interest of time we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question today.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
I want to focus if I may on the volume guidance in particular I think broader thoughts for that the sector could grow about 1% to 2% in '16 maybe with some of these headwinds you are seeing in the broader economy that would have been a little bit too aggressive but did you address the 50 basis points to 1% increase that you are looking forward in particular how large was the residential drop contracts that you lost? Well it's actually a couple contracts right so this is just normal in our business Al and let’s focus on residential for a second.
We have made a lot of noise around the fact that the residential business has been the weakest for some time the residential business some of those contracts again have CPI resets which don’t really work us for us over the long-term.
We have been very good public private partners with our residential customers and we ultimately need to have contracts that work for both parties and so we are booking a very strong approach if you are trying to get these contracts switched to a new index which we only talked about doing that successfully.
And there are some contracts frankly that just don’t work for us and so we are going to continue to be focused on return on investments so the residential business can be a little bit weaker in '16 as a result of that.
And again there is -- we have got so many contracts in total do we have in residential contracts it is thousands of them right.
So that’s just the nature of the beast and that is going to be a little lumpy from year-to-year.
The underlying economics we think are good right.
So you think about how we always talk about the fact that its population growth driving household formation and really is a critical metric in our business.
If you look out at household formation it is strong it prompts us to continue to remain strong as far as we are growing so that’s good for us.
The Special Waste business looks pretty solid that’s a good indicator of a good economy and we have seen pretty consistent growth in even our landfill MSW business over the last year.
I mean so I think we are in pretty good shape.
You reported on the year 4 plus percent growth in MSW landfill which -- that is actually nice to have across the business.
So we will continue to look for that and then with the capture tool and PBS we’re being very selective about the kind of growth we’re getting.
And as I said in my remarks that we are in the 11th straight quarter where we had both positive volume and pricing growth and we think that’s the magic where we get both end and we continue to get both end into the future and that’s where we’re focused that’s going to deliver the margin that’s going to deliver the cash.
If you slice the volume overall and I guess my question is a little bit more macro driven.
But historically we’ve known that C&amp;D has been a big beneficiary to the RSG/Allied network.
How would you look that and say from either a manufacturing side or what concerns should we think about and shareholders be aware of in terms of slower economy what that may impact and in particular in what manufacturing verticals how much are you exposed there? Well first let’s step back from all of that and remember I mean we tend to lag right so when things go up and down we kind of lag a little bit.
But when we talk about our Large Container Industrial perm business that’s mostly construction it's a large container tank.
When we talk about industrial large container perm industrial is kind of a misnomer because that includes a lot of commercial retail business a large multifamily office buildings hospitals anything that requires large container.
Only a portion of that perm large container business is truly industrial right.
And we’ve continued to see strong performance in that permanent business both price and volume.
So we’re not concerned about that segment of our business.
Our next question is from Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Please go ahead.
This is Ken Wang on for Corey.
So just thinking about the incentive comp increase that you mentioned and looking at the labor cost as well which looked like they were up about 6% year-on-year.
Was the incentive comps increase something that also had an effect on labor cost just given the increase? No the incentive comp increase really occurred all in the SG&amp;A line and that was due to the financial outperformance that we had during 2015.
And obviously as we look at SG&amp;A cost in 2016 we’re not expecting that to repeat.
And then in terms of the labor cost being up 6% what was the driver there? Sure so keep in mind that 40 basis points of that is due to reduction in the fuel recovery fee and commodity revenue so it is really revenue based and then the other 20% is really due to acquisitions.
Okay that’s helpful… Yes so Ken when you think about revenues because you’re just looking at the straight dollar increase.
Is that right the 6% you’re just taking a look at dollar-to-dollar is what you’re looking at? Yes that’s right.
So I mean remember you got to think about there is normal inflation in the business and then when you think of on a full year basis when you look at our volumes it's been heavily weighted to the Collection portion of our business.
So there is a volume element to it.
And then you have to look at the total amount of acquisitions that we’ve completed during the year.
Right so you add the three up together from the revenue perspective because remember within the revenue you’ve got the reduction from fuel recovery and fee and commodities it does nothing to your labor cost.
So you got to look at the revenue change exclusive of those and basically what you’re seeing is a similar increase in labor expense expressed as a percentage.
And just one quick follow-up do you have any comments on any changes you’ve seen in competitor behavior anything you’re seeing either from large competitors or small competitors? No I would say really no change over what we saw at the end of last year.
Generally speaking more broadly speaking you know that we feel pretty good about sort of the rational behavior in the market generally.
There is always A market or two there is always a local competitor or two doing something maybe making a bad decision or having debt -- actually they are making investment here and there.
But overall we’re not concerned about it.
Our next question is from Scott Levine of Imperial Capital.
Please go ahead.
So last year I think you lowered off of your preliminary guidance for 2015 due to recycled commodity prices dipping here you’re affirming the guidance.
Just kind of wondering any appreciable changes in any of the assumptions or drivers beneath the surface of your business from 3Q to 4Q? Or is it really kind of status quo and no meaningful change in any particular area here? No actually there has been a change.
I mean we look at our outlook and then look at our guidance right now.
We’ve got about a $0.04 decrease due to commodity prices so pretty a significant decrease since we gave outlook.
But we’ve been able to offset that by lower fuel cost and also through other improvements in the business and that's what allowed us to keep our guidance consistent with our outlook that we provided in October.
And as a follow-up in your capital allocation plan for '16 have you outstanding free cash by a bit here you've come off to pretty active years for M&amp;A just looking for your confidence level maybe that you can continue this out spend free cash flow and then grow the dividend and then still remain comfortable with where your balance sheet leverage is? Yes we're very comfortable with the balance sheet leverage so right now we're at 2.9 times when we look at our capital allocation both in terms of dividend and share repurchase it’s right in line with the free cash flow and they are still having the capacity that we need in order to pursue acquisition so we're very comfortable with the capital allocation strategy and very comfortable with being able to continue to increase our dividends in the future.
Yes Scott this is Don as it relates to the M&amp;A right we can talk about the pipeline of tuck-ins we've got a pretty good handle we think on what is out there as it relates to tuck-in opportunities but these larger opportunities that really drove the over I'd say that over spending but it's like we spend more in M&amp;A last year those are lumpy right those come to the market once in a while so we don't really see we don't have visibility to any of those today as we look at '16.
And again we're always focused on first and foremost the tuck-ins in our current markets in our core business and that's what gives us the better return and lower risk et cetera but it's just that we always want to maintain right strength in our capital structure so that if the right thing does come along for us we've got the flexibility so we're very focused on that.
Our next question is from Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hi Don I want to talk about what I'm going to call your own idiosyncratic pricing story so at this point Capture has rolled out everybody is through PDS my resource has got increased penetration and I assume all of that would drive better customer loyalty.
So given all that can you give us any metrics maybe even just directionally about maybe churn or spread between your lost business and going forward would we expect to see the gap between core price and average yield narrow? Well let’s backup first of all right it's a pretty big denominator right so if we talk about taking the faction from 7% which it’s been the faction have been at an all time double-digit high in the past we've got it down to 9 8 now 7 it's been consistently 7 for some time.
Driving that down to 6 would be quite a feat but we're focused on extending customer loyalty and perhaps that the faction is really competitive the other half is what we call structural business to close and things move offshore et cetera.
We are really-really focused in on the quality of services we're delivering to our customers through meeting our customer commitments which is internal metric and then also Net Promoter score which as I said in my comments we have improved the Net Promoter score every year for three years so -- and we're very-very active in trying to understand how our customers think about us and then we brought forward not only better quality of service delivery but a better way of doing business with us through our digital platform.
So all those things are driven to improve the customer experience and then on top of that the tool set you described around PDS Capture and also frankly the improved CRM tool that our team uses today makes them one or more efficient more effective but also helps them to get basically the price for new selling to improve.
And that's what is happening with what we're seeing with price with yield and with churn.
That churn which is essentially the difference between business gained and business lost right the net difference has continued there to narrow that has been a big part of our pricing story and we're going to continue to focus on that as we go through the years.
The combination of all those things working towards again extending the loyalty reducing churn which ultimately means lower inflection and creating what we call internally rolling this effect right and then PDS is directing our sales teams at customers that we believe are in the segments that are more likely to buy value and less likely to be only priced customers.
So everything we've been talking about over the past couple of years is getting rolled out as we've been working for the greater good and it is reflected here in our best pricing ever in 2015 or in a long time it has been going on you know.
And 11 straight quarters for both pricing and volume growth and as I said with another question we're going to be focused on the right growth right targeted profitable unit growth.
So we're seeing it and then we're seeing market expansion we're seeing good cash flow as a result so that's as you called it what idiosyncratic right that is the word.
Chuck do you want to understand a couple of the underlying assumptions in the guidance.
So first off are you guys assuming about a $10 decline in commodities is that right? A $10 from yes from what we actually saw in 2015 that’s right.
Okay and then are you expecting Tervita to contribute more or less EBITDA? It is going to be about the same what we got is a little bit of a headwind associated with drilling activity and we are going to make that up through productivity gains and through the anniversarying of some integration costs.
Okay.
And then lastly just do you have specifically what you are kind of expecting for open versus restricted market pricing? No and you got to take a look at the performance Tyler I mean it's a similar level of performance in 2016 as we saw in 2015 with the exception of the step down in CPI-based pricing.
But you can probably expect similar level of contribution.
Okay all right that’s perfect thank you guys.
And a subset of muni that we converted to a better index set right.
Our next is from Jeff Volshteyn of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
When we look at your congressional funding for infrastructure that was surpassed last year there is a fair amount of enthusiasm about new conversations and new projects in infrastructure.
Does that impact -- I mean do you think about that market as potential opportunity for you does that impact your business in over the next so let’s say three to five years? It doesn’t make a huge impact when you think about that infrastructure build funding roads and bridges.
We do work for customers who build roads and bridges but that doesn’t generate the same kind of waste volume that comes out of stack homes and multi-family homes and skyscrapers right.
The weight that comes from building a site is not some things like expedition and point of concrete.
But things like putting up starts and dry wall and permitting and installation and ripping those kinds of things generate waste for construction.
So roads and bridges we have some containers at along some of these building sites but unfortunately for us we don’t get to pull them very often.
Just a few clarifying questions on the reorganizational announcement or restructuring what is the timing of it through 2016 are there certain quarters where it is going to be more impactful? Well let me start and I will let Chuck talk about how the numbers roll-in but reorganization is complete right.
So the reorganization is complete the organization is function under the new model and so basically we have the absolute lower cost of organization functioning today net of the onetime severances and relocations that some of the relocations have to occur over the next couple of months.
So what we are saying is that the savings that we are going to receive from the realignment.
Will really start in February and that’s about $20 million or so that’s going to be offset by additional investments and initiatives primarily due to our customer resource centers.
So that will be an offset within our P&amp;L.
We are also going to have about $35 million of restructuring charges $25 million of that are associated with the realignment that Don just talked about a lot of that should be frontend loaded so more towards Q1 Q2.
And then about $10 million of that associated with the customer resource center that’s going to be more spread out through the year.
Our next question is from Michael Hoffman with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
I have the sense that solid waste’s operating leverage is a little bit matched by similar noise that happened throughout the year if you were to strip away Tervita how do you think about the solid waste profitability trend through the year and coming into 2016? Michael let me start by going through some of the numbers so if we just reconcile the EBITDA margin from '14 to '15 2014 was at 28% and we got about 90 basis points of margin expansion this from the solid waste from the base business a lot of that due to pricing above cost inflation and lowering that fuel.
Now that was offset during the year by the recycling business which ended up being about 40 basis points and by acquisitions of about 40 basis points.
So to your question you eliminate the cycling and you eliminate the 40 basis points from acquisition it gives you a better idea of where we think the true margin potential is of the business of the base business.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And then within the cash flows sort of discussion you finished this year's cash flow from operations with a nice healthy 18.4% of revs that is a nice healthy increase year-over-year and really there is a nice deferred tax from tax furnace depreciation that -- but your guidance for next year looks like you are retaining a lot of that it's still over 18% so it's you might want it down a little bit year-over-year it's still over 18 which is up on a long-term basis so is that a sustainable permanent trend here now you’re 18% or better CRC of ops going forward? Yes we would say that that is we believe that to be sustainable Michael going forward.
We think about growing free cash flow on an annual basis somewhere in the mid to high single-digits is something we feel comfortable with and that’s exactly what we’re doing this year if you exclude the impact of bonus depreciation on both ’15 and ’16.
And you are -- and I think I misunderstood your commentary or I didn’t understand it.
The 65 million was in ’15 December and 30s in 18 so ’16 is that what you were saying? That’s right.
Yes that’s right Michael that’s right.
Okay.
And Michael maybe another way to think about this as well is that if you take a look at the 2016 guidance right for free cash flow of 820 million to 840 million even though there is a $30 million benefit from the expense of the expansion of bonus depreciation if you look at the in-year impact right so from all prior years together with what was just extended it's still a net negative in ’16 to the magnitude of about $20 million.
So if you want to kind of think normalized you would take that guidance and add $20 million that’s a normalized level of free cash flow as bonus depreciation never existed at all.
Right so think about it your first question the underlying waste our business expanded 90 basis points again forget about some of the other noise.
But the cash flow point you made is right on it and as you always say you get proper cash.
You think about what we’ve done in the business to shift the pricing to offset cost.
We still got some good cost initiatives underway certainly the reorganization and CRCs are part of that.
And ongoing improvements still in our product set and in our customer service overhang and so I continue to drive willingness to pay.
So we’ve shifted a gear here and now we’re funding with some of those improvements funding the next wave of initiatives and so on.
So I mean we think we’re going to continue to do that year-on-year and at some point in the future there will be other waves of initiatives that we talk about still just going to leave you so much more time.
But we think we’ve turned the corner on it.
And just so I understood Brian’s comment about what you were saying I think was the 813 less the 65 you’ve normalized that it would still be plus 20 and then that grows to 830 would be the midpoint less 30 so it's still showing growth that’s the point you’re making [Multiple Speakers].
No no I guess what I was saying Michael is that you just take the 2016 guide of 820 to 840 okay if you take a look at the in-year impact of bonus depreciation that we’re going to see due to the reversal of prior years in ’16 together with the in-year benefit from the extension when you take the net impact of that that’s still a net negative $20 million to free cash flow or $20 million in higher cash taxes then that bonus depreciation never existed at all.
So the notion of kind of what normalized would be in a normal tax environment it’d be closer to 840 to 860 not 820 to 840 that’s what I was saying.
Our next question is from Andrew Buscaglia of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
So on your fleet savings programs the 72% automated at 78% maintenance program.
Do you expect those to be pretty much complete by the end of this year? No the -- we’ll have the let’s take them one at a time.
The automation right is focused on the residential part of our business going from multiple individuals working on accrue to single operator vehicles right.
So we’ve moved that number up 2% or 3% a year.
I think last year we converted what 200 or 300 routes to the single operator.
So that’s just been ticking up that thing will probably max-out somewhere at about 80% I’d like to think I’d give you a little better but some neighborhoods or some contracts just can’t quite get there so it's going to continue to tick up year-on-year until we are fully automated.
The One Fleet initiative is going to be complete this year with all of our divisions being fully trained on One Fleet and then they’ll be certified some of them will still be in the certification process into the venue next year.
But we’re seeing the benefits of the most mature sites that we talk about generally accruing the business so the longer these divisions are on the One Fleet program the better they perform.
And not to mention right obviously the extension of the fleet the useful life of the fleet which has been a very methodical over our process and as I said in our comments we’re continually taking advantage of that and as a result and our CapEx this year is only about 9.5% of revenue.
That’s right.
So just put a final point on that and we had -- we are expecting a $200 million capital savings associated with the One Fleet program $40 million of that we actually obtained in ’15 and we’re expecting another $16 million benefit in 2016.
And we originally said it would take four to five years to fully roll that out so we'll take advantage of the extending the life.
And then switching gears on the volume side can you talk a little about your expectations specifically on the commercial volumes I know they were flattish this quarter what are you seeing are you expecting '16 for that segment? Yes we would say generally flat and we've got a couple of things going on in there.
We have -- back in my comments earlier about more disciplined -- internal discipline on our end around price and volume finding that right balance really using the tools the Capture tool et cetera we as talked about in previous quarters the fact that we parted with some non-profitable national accounts business and we're going to continue to be very certain in our actions around that and we've also walked away from some broker relationships those are third-parties who don't own trucks they don't own containers they don't own landfills they have no risk they bring no value to the customer and we've had some relationships there that we've had to part ways with and we're going to continue to be very selective of our partners and that will impact our commercial small container growth in '16 and in '17 frankly.
But I mean we will continue to be flat at least for '16 and ultimately as our product continue to improve and everything else we'll get our fair share of growth and that's the thing we always say is what 240 markets 42 states we're in number one or number two market position and about 93% of those as growth is there we get our fair share of growth and we want to focus that share on -- again customers who are in the right segments who value our quality and rolling effect.
Our next question is from Michael Feniger of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
You got into EBITDA margins up 40 basis points can you just walk us through some puts and takes on what's helping you really expand that margin in a very tough CPI backdrop? Sure let me put a little bit of color first of all on fourth quarter margins and the EBITDA margin for Q4 2015 was 27.2%.
Now included in that you'll see that we had higher SG&amp;A cost incentive comp was about 50 basis points higher we had some legal settlements of about 20 basis points and we had some initiative investments of about 30 basis points.
Now the initiative investments in 2016 are going to be offset by the cost savings from the realignment that I had talked about and we're not expecting the initiative comp the incentive comp and the legal settlements to reoccur.
So just from that alone you're ending up with 100 basis points more in margin for the quarter.
And we're looking at SG&amp;A in 2016 closer to 10.5% and once again that has to -- it's a little bit higher than the 10% that we called out just because of some of the costs that we're incurring is associated with initiatives but after 2018 and getting the full benefit associated with both the realignment and the customer resource centers we're expecting SG&amp;A to be back in -- back to around 10% so looking longer term really we're going to be able to start leveraging our SG&amp;A and that's what is going to be a primary driver of our margins going forward.
Yes.
And Mike just to kind of look at -- if you look at the full year-over-year what Chuck just described on the SG&amp;A expenses that's probably 30 basis points of the 40 basis points of margin expansion from '15 to '16 just on SG&amp;A and then the rest is basically just due to a better business performance.
And then with free cash flow coming in ahead in 2016 and a very healthy cash flow from operations is there any thought about maybe taking up that tuck-in acquisition target of 100 million higher? Yes so we've got a target of 100 million as I said and we've got a pipeline -- each of our Area President's and our General Managers have responsibility to contribute to that pipeline with ideas around companies that might be interested in selling.
You know I always say right in order to gather the deal one of the main components of having a good deal is having a willing seller right.
And you need a willing seller you need good synergy real synergy you'd like to get real assets and real property and real goodwill of customers we don't like startups we don't buy serial seller we like the quality companies with recurring revenue and good assets and so there's a limit to what is out there and there's a limit frankly to owners who are willing to sell and they got to be at a point in their lives frankly where they are so we're going to be as optimistic because we can be -- we think the tuck-in really looks like 100 million.
It is something so much long that's it is not in our sites today we'll let you know as the quarters tickle off we always have the capability to do more and that’s one of the reasons that we maintain our capital structure the way that we do.
And again we are very focused on trying to grow the core and we know the value of tuck-in more business into already a very strong management team and really a strong asset base.
So if it's there we will take a look at it.
Our next question is from Adam Baumgarten of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Adam your line is live perhaps muted on your end.
Hi sorry guys thank you [Multiple Speakers] just a quick question on the Post-Collection yield and it's pretty stable quarter-over-quarter despite a pretty nice pick up in MSW yield can you kind a walk me through the put and takes there? Let me back up and give you just a sense to it and then I’ll let Chuck walk through the numbers.
But remember that Post-Collection right includes right transfer and landfill and remember that a good portion of our landfill business today MSW still comes through as municipal waste from municipal customers right.
And a lot of that business -- so these are cities who have their own trash fleets their own trucks quite and their own trash from rate payors.
But they have no landfills and so unfortunately for us some of those contracts are still in with the CPI accelerators so as we are thinking about moving to new indices that is the one of the areas that we will focus on overtime.
In the other part of the business the sort of the open market part of the rent business we do much better.
But it's heavily weighted still towards that municipal waste product.
Yes so the restricted piece of the business the yield there is closer to 1% to 1.5% and then to Don’s point the unrestricted price is probably closer to 3% or 4%.
And then just one quick one should we expect any material impact on 1Q margins from the extra selling day? Yes we think that there is going to be a downward pressure on margins higher cost I should say in Q1 because of the extra selling day.
That’s about 30 to 40 basis points.
And then the other thing again just to kind a keep in mind when you take a look at the first quarter is last year we got the benefit from the lag in the fuel recovery fee.
And that was about $0.02 EPS benefit it contributed about 60 basis points to margin in the first quarter of '15.
So when you look at the combination of the two just kind of something to keep in mind as you are looking at your model for next year for this year.
At this time there appear to be not further questions.
Mr.
Slager I’ll turn the call back over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you Emily I would like to thank all Republic employees for their hard work commitment and dedication to operational excellence and creating the Republic Way.
Thank you for spending time with us today.
Have a good evening and be safe out there.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call.
Thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect.