Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome  to the Raytheon First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alicia and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Alicia.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slide that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investors section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then we move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over at Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon delivered solid operating results in the quarter.
Bookings sales margin and cash flow generation all exceeded our expectations.
This is especially notable given the headwind from one of the longest periods under continuing resolution on record which started last October and ended this month.
During the quarter our team worked closely with the customer in order to minimize any impact from funding delays.
This effort was mandatory to keep our programs on schedule and cost.
Further our focus on cost efficiencies and execution resulted in solid operational performance in the quarter.
Thus we were able to reaffirm our sales adjusted EPS and cash flow guidance for the year.
We continue to focus on International where we see strong demand for our products.
For example our international bookings were 28% for the quarter.
Threat levels remain high and our customers continue to turn to Raytheon for cutting edge technologies and innovative solutions to address the rapidly evolving requirements.
In the quarter International accounted for 25% of total sales and grew by 7%.
Our international pipeline remains robust for the remainder of the year.
The pipeline includes UAE TPY-2 ground radar Taiwan Patriot and additional international missile sales including Patriot upgrades to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Our classified business continues to be strong as well with sales increasing by 26% in the quarter the vast majority of which was organic.
Let me take a minute to talk about some key highlights from the quarter.
IDS was awarded $107 million U.S.
Air Force design contract for the Space Fence System.
Space Fence is the future of space situational awareness and will provide our customer with enhanced capability to track and detect space objects.
This program extends our core radar capabilities into an exciting new application.
Whether it's ground-based radars like Space Fence or C-Base like our recent down select on air and missile defense radar AMDR or airborne like our upgraded F-15 F-18 and RACR ACE radars Raytheon's radar franchise continues to generate opportunities for growth and value creation.
Earlier this month the Raytheon SM-3 program had its 19th successful intercept.
This operational test demonstrated the key role Raytheon plays in missile defense.
During this test the Raytheon built TPY-2 ground-based radar autonomously detected and tracked the target.
This track information was data-linked to a U.S.
Navy destroyer that launched the Raytheon SM-3 Block 1A missile which successfully intercepted an intermediate range ballistic missile target.
This concept of forward-base sensor-queuing the shooter is called launch on remote.
This is important because the concept is a central capability of Phased Adaptive Approach PAA for Europe.
And it demonstrates how the integration of remotely deployed sensors and shooters greatly expands the battle space and defended area against a broader range of ballistic missile threats.
As part of the secondary objectives of this test a Raytheon built sensor on the space tracking surveillance system and the C-based expand radar participated in the test and successfully tracked the target.
Near the end of the first quarter the Missile Defense Agency awarded Raytheon Missile Systems a $312 million contract for the advanced capabilities for the next iteration of the SM-3 missile the Block 1B.
The continued evolution of Raytheon sensors and interceptors brings innovative missile defense solutions to the U.S.
forces and our allies.
When you look at Raytheon's capabilities in radars interceptors and command-and-control it becomes evident that we're involved in all aspects of missile defense.
Our capabilities are truly a national asset and we're proud of the key role we play in defending the U.S.
and its allies.
Shifting gears I want to point out that we remain committed to pursuing a balanced and disciplined approach to capital deployment.
During the quarter we raised the dividend for the seventh consecutive year this year by 15%.
We also repurchased 6.1 million shares of stock and completed the acquisition of Applied Signal Technologies.
AST brings a rich set of capabilities to the Raytheon family particularly in the EW and cyber markets where we expect future growth.
Integration remains on track and we welcome the new team members from the AST.
We also strive everyday to maximize the value we bring to our customers.
This includes being as efficient as possible.
Once again you can see the results in our margin performance and as I've said before our focus in this area is part of our DNA.
To that end we are pursuing a broad range of initiatives across the enterprise to maximize efficiency including optimizing supply-chain operations and further leveraging our shared services model.
This follows on our drive over the past few years to improve our focus on operational working capital which has yield significant cash flow improvements.
As you can see from the quarter earlier results Raytheon continues to deliver solid operating performance.
The depth and breadth of our portfolio the agility and dedication of our team and our focus on operational excellence continued to provide the foundation for our continued performance.
These advantages also position us well to convert future challenges to opportunities.
We have a proven strategy best-in-class capabilities and outstanding team to meet our customers' needs.
And now I'll turn it over to Dave.
Okay thanks Bill.
So I have a few opening remarks starting with the first quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the Web Slide that we issued earlier this morning.
If everyone would please move to Page 3.
As Bill noted be performed well in the first quarter; bookings sales margin and cash flow generation all exceeded our expectations.
We achieved solid performance in light of the challenging environment posed by the continuing resolution.
Additionally as Bill noted both international bookings and sales were strong.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.38 was up 10% driven by capital deployment actions and operational improvements.
Adjusted operating margin was 12.5% up 10 basis points.
Sales were $6.1 billion which I'll discuss further in just a moment.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations of $69 million was better than our previous guidance due to the timing of collections particularly at our Technical Services Business.
You may recall that we implemented that our Apex SAP financial system upgrade at TS in the first quarter.
The process was virtually seamless and we were able to realize better than anticipated billings and related collections.
During the quarter the company repurchased 6.1 million shares of common stock for $312 million.
In addition our Board of Directors increased the company's annual dividend rate by 15% to $1.72 per share.
We've now increased the dividend for seven consecutive years.
Also as we previously announced in the first quarter 2011 the company completed the acquisition of Applied Signal Technology which is being integrated into our Space and Airborne Systems business.
For the year we expect solid sales growth and strong operational performance.
I'll discuss guidance in a few minutes.
Turning now to Page 4 let me start by providing some detail on our first quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $5.1 billion.
We continue to see the order book improving in late Q2 and early Q3.
From a cadence standpoint we expect the book-to-bill to expand as we move through the year resulting in a full year book-to-bill ratio of 1.06 to 1.08x.
Notable bookings in the first quarter included $131 million at IBS to provide engineering services support for Patriot Air Missile Defense Program for U.S.
and international customers and $107 million for the development on the competitively awarded Space Fence program for the U.S.
Air Force.
IIS booked $347 million for the development of the Joint Polar Satellite System for NASA.
Missile System's booked $375 million for the development and production of SM-3 for the Missile Defense Agency and $177 million for the production of Excalibur for the U.S.
Army and an international customer.
During the quarter SAS booked $782 million on an international program.
Technical Services booked $87 million for domestic training and $63 million for foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS program.
TS also booked $150 million to provide operational and logistic support to the Polar Mission for the National Science Foundation.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter was $33.7 billion compared to the $34.6 billion at the end of 2010.
If you now move to Page 5.
Sales were ahead of our expectations.
Looking at sales by business IDS had first quarter 2011 net sales of $1.2 billion.
As we expected the change in IDS sales was primarily due to lower sales on the Zumwalt program as a result of the revised funding profile which I spoke about on the last call.
This impact is expected to be approximately $300 million to $400 million for the full year.
IIS had first quarter 2011 net sales of $750 million.
The increase in net sales was essentially driven by the GPS-OCX program.
Missile Systems and Technical Services both had sales in line with the same period last year.
NCS had net sales of $1.1 billion the change in net sales was primarily due to the planned decline in production of the U.S.
Army Sensor Program.
Space and Airborne Systems had net sales of $1.3 billion in the quarter up 16% driven by growth in classified business and an international airborne tactical radar program.
Moving ahead to Page 6 we are pleased by our overall company margin performance once again showing year-over-year improvement from an operational perspective.
Our adjusted margins of 10 basis points to 12.5% and if you exclude the AST integration and acquisition-related costs adjusted company margins would've been 12.7%.
So looking at business margins IBS Missile Systems NCS and TS margins were up in the quarter compared with the same period last year the result of solid operating performance.
Technical Services was extremely strong driven not only by a continued focus on efficiency improvements but also by a favorable contract modification a contract extension and a legal settlement which are not expected to recur.
And at IIS year-over-year margins were up 30 basis points over last year's first quarter excluding the UKBA Letters of Credit adjustment.
I'll talk more about this in just a moment.
At SAS the change in margins was primarily due to $13 million of acquisition integration related cost for Applied Signal Technology.
This impacted SAS' margins by approximately 100 basis points.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
Let me now take a minute to address the unilateral decision to draw down on the letters of credit by the U.K.
Border Agency in connection with the filing of their claim as part of the arbitration process.
I want to be clear that from our perspective our assessment of this situation hasn't changed.
While we do not believe the LOC draw was appropriate the arbitration panel's decision effectively deferred a final determination until the end of the arbitration and found that the validity of the draw is now inextricably tied up with all of the issues in the arbitration.
Consequently the accounting rules require that we write-off the full $80 million.
The fact is the e-Border system is operating successfully and delivering actionable intelligence.
The system now screens more than 120 million passenger journeys per year representing more than half of the traffic entering and leaving the country.
As of April 15 the U.K.
Border Agency is now operating the system.
With that said this action shouldn't take away from the underlying strength of our overall performance in the quarter.
Turning now to Page 7 first quarter 2011 adjusted EPS of $1.38 was up 10%.
The increase was driven by capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases and operational improvements.
On Page 8 you'll see that we are reaffirming the financial outlook for 2011 that we provided in January for net sales adjusted EPS and cash flow from continuing operations.
We have updated the guidance for the full year 2011 EPS from continuing operations to reflect the accounting impact of the UKBA LOC adjustment.
We expect growth in sales in the range of $25.5 billion to $26.3 billion and adjusted EPS to be in the range of $5.50 to $5.65.
Moving to Page 9 our outlook by business is unchanged from our previous guidance for the year except for the margins at IIS for the reasons I just discussed.
The key take away here is that our strong and diverse portfolio is driving sales growth and solid margin performance.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales EPS and operating cash flow from continuing operations.
We saw good performance in the first quarter compared to both Q1 2010 and also the initial outlook for Q1 2011 that we provided back in January.
Some of this improvement was driven by timing.
Okay.
Now let me summarize the first quarter from an operational perspective.
We had solid sales in a challenging environment strong margins EPS and cash flow.
Our shareholder focus was again highlighted by increasing the dividend by 15% and repurchasing $312 million of common stock.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
We are confident as we look ahead.
We fully expect our solid results both from a program performance and a financial perspective to continue.
We are well aligned with the priorities of the DoD (Department of Defense).
This was again proven out by the signing of the FY '11 and the submission of the FY '12 defense budgets.
We fully expect this to be the case longer-term.
We continue to expand our international presence and we have a broad range of near and long-term opportunities in the pipeline.
The fact is that we continue to improve margins over time which in large part reflects our unrelenting focus on performance and cost efficiencies.
We have an exceptionally strong balance sheet that gives us the flexibility to invest in value-creating opportunities in addition to capital deployment priorities that together directly enhance and improve shareholder value.
With that Bill and I will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Rob Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Dave you just talked about the flow of earnings in the quarter.
And clearly looks like you pulled some business forward.
Could you get into a little bit more detail? You talked about timing.
Think if we go back look at your old guidance and the old percentages is that you gave on an operating or continuing ops basis you would've earned a $1.03.
You earned $1.22 when you I back out the $0.16.
And if you could talk a little bit about that and perhaps why when you -- I think the fewest working days in the fourth quarter you get the highest earnings there.
Sure.
Okay so we did see good performance in the first quarter both compared to last year's first quarter and compared to our initial outlook.
It's important to note that some of this was due to the timing of improvement that we had expected in the second quarter.
That accounts for about $0.05 or $0.06.
It was driven I would say principally by SAS volume and otherwise spread across the other businesses.
It's still early in the year and the outlook for growth in 2011 that we provided again reflects our best estimate of the range of results we expect to deliver.
Now we did speak about this back in January.
The timing of new awards this year drives the ramp up in the back half of the year.
Again this is consistent with where we were a few months ago and I agree that we've started off very strong.
But given the cadence that we expect to see throughout the year we're quite comfortable with the second through fourth quarters.
As far as comps are concerned I think you always have to look at the starting point relative to what happened in last year second half particularly the third and fourth quarters.
So from a comparison standpoint it's not quite as pronounced as the numbers might otherwise suggest.
Okay and then just from a detailed perspective you got this volume increase at SAS.
You've got Applied Signal there.
You talked about classified growth yet the margins came down almost 200 bps 100 of that is explained by the integration.
What else is going on there? Okay.
SAS continues to perform well as it has over the last number of years.
You talked about the hundred basis points essentially that impacted the business of through the AST integration.
Other than that there is a timing and mix of programs.
We still expect healthy margins for the balance of the year.
There's nothing remarkable going on in the first quarter.
It's simply just a timing and mix issue.
Your next question comes from the line of Troy Lahr from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about the continuing resolution and maybe how much that impacted the first quarter from a sales and your booking standpoint? It's Bill.
Let me try and do that.
At first I would say it's not an exact science because we have so many programs but as near as we can look at it we figured that the CR had an effect of about $500 million in bookings and probably $200 million in sales.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then lastly from an international booking standpoint are you seeing anything get shifted out to the right or put on long-term hold I would say? No.
From our standpoint the pipeline is rich.
I can run through them real quick if you want.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Sure thanks.
From my standpoint clearly if we go around the globe here and we take a look at the Mid-East increased activity for us.
On Saudi Config-3 we're working to upgrade the existing fire units over there.
They've got 20.
We're currently in final negotiations over there.
We should be able to wrap it up shortly and then go for congressional notifications.
So from my standpoint probably in the next few months we see that coming home.
We've got TPY-2 radars in UAE from our standpoint there.
A couple of radars we expect that probably in the fall of this year maybe in the $500 million $600 million range.
Further on Patriot we've got Taiwan and Kuwait.
Both of those are expected in the latter part of the years.
They've talked about as we ramp up at the end.
We've got Paveways that there's demand maybe $500 million $600 million that we see in various countries around the world as they use that particular system.
Our Air Traffic Control business around the world clearly is getting some attention.
People want to make sure that we've got the capability to track all the targets there and we see about $200 million worth of business in that area.
Missiles are strong.
We expect $400 million to $500 million in sales around the world.
Training that continues to be strong international maybe $200 million to $300 million there.
And finally sometime this year as we get through elections and everything in Turkey we expect an announcement in that area in Turkey Patriots roughly about $2 billion.
To take a little time to walk you through some of the opportunities we see internationally.
That also discounts the tens of millions of contracts the various small wins that we got in 80 countries around the world.
So we have not seen a cancellation.
And for us the back end was really loaded because that's when we expected these international orders to come in.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Two questions Bill.
I'm going to break the ice on one of them because it's the elephant in the room.
Is the guy that signed the U.K.
Border contract now in South Pole running the business down there? Could you elaborate a little bit more on what other risks you have left? I know this is a big irritant to you but it's kind of an unfortunate charge.
Because this is really an accounting event and our assessment of the case hasn't changed.
I'll really ask Dave to address that portion and Dave's with me here in Waltham.
So that will at least explain that Dave's okay? Howard I think the first part of your question is appropriate but we can't comment on the movement of personnel around the world.
I'm sure you can appreciate that.
So as we sit here today we don't see a basis for any additional positive or negative adjustments until the tribunal's decision which is expected in 2013.
I hope that answers your question.
Inc.</strong> And then a follow up is you had -- you talked about some very good classified business growth and some pretty impressive international growth despite not bringing home any of these big contracts that are in the works.
Could you address a little bit the domestic business which obviously was the core domestic business which is down? Is that some of that timing or is it some of that run off of contracts? It's just the nature of the beast? Howard it's Bill.
I think a lot of it is timing.
There was a lot of consternation I would say in the building.
It was hard for our customers to figure out when the CR was going to end.
They were trying to fund at the 80% level.
There couldn't be any new starts really during the period.
So domestically as an engineer put in our see time constant just delayed things and so from our standpoint we haven't been troubled by the loss of anything.
In fact the opposite is true.
Our win rates are plus 70% or better in both programs in dollars.
So to answer your question it's been more of a delay factor.
And we've got one of our programs and EW got booked immediately right after the resolution for about $85 million.
So we see some things starting to move and we expect in the missile area that will continue.
And then we've got a couple of new Homeland Security opportunities that should come to fruition here because we're in negotiations as we speak.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Arment with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> On TS Dave they have very strong margin performance.
Any one-time items in there? Is it all operational? Well there are some items that will not recur.
I think when you stand back they obviously posted the strongest margins certainly in the last 10 years at over 10%.
When you peel back the items that won't occur again for at least for the balance of the year and looking into next year the margins come down to about the mid high 8% range.
That's part one.
Part two is we'll also be starting up with some new awards as we go throughout the year and we'll be booking those new awards at rates that are expected to be lower than where we would possibly end up over time.
So the business is continuing to perform well.
There's a tremendous focus in that area on cost efficiencies and productivity and we're satisfied with that business overall.
Inc.</strong> Bill thank you for the international bookings kind of run down.
Is your target still that you expect roughly at 30% mix for the year? Yes we expect international to be about 28% to 30% sales to be about 23% to 25%.
We see that on track.
Our bookings for the year at 27.5% plus or minus $500 million is still also on track with the international mix being what I stated earlier.
Inc.</strong> You mentioned a lot of these countries sounds like that there's going to be some contract awards this year but there was a proposal out in February that I guess Germany was going to give some surplus CAC2S to Poland.
And I guess the numbers that were thrown out there the modernization would be upwards of $1 billion for Poland.
What is -- have you seen any movement further from that I guess given maybe some further fallout from EMEA's decision here domestically? We see increased attention to Patriots given the EMEA's decision and countries realize that Patriot is still the premier system in the world for handling all three kinds of threats.
So from our standpoint if you think about it Korea actually started with the same kind of assets and we've upgraded those.
And Korea is now part of the Patriot family here.
And Poland we'd like to see in the same position or any other country.
It's got a great heritage and it's now one of the most modern air defense systems in the world given the upgrades that we put in for UAE.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Dave just want to ask you a question.
Around the U.K.
Borders in your filing I guess where you talked about the $80 million letter of credit there was also a $70 million receivable.
Is there anything that would trigger a write-down or change in that as you look forward? No there's nothing that we are aware of at this time that would trigger a write-down.
LLC</strong> When you calculate or the cash impact of the letter of credit are you considering that in your cash from operations or are you counting that separately kind of a financing activity? It's in cash from operations and it was impacted in the second quarter.
LLC</strong> And then just last question is really on some of the international contract awards that Bill you just mentioned.
A lot of those are going to take some time to actually impact sales.
So the ramp up in the second half in terms of sales are probably not those international Patriot awards.
So what's really coming in that would help accelerate the sales growth in the second half? It's a combination.
What I would say is some of those will have an effect.
They won't have a big affect.
Anything to do with patriot or Paveway or any of those programs have an immediate ramp up because we've already built them before we have a supply base.
You have to realize that we're in constant contact with our supply chain so that we want to make sure they're ready we're ready are the orders all stacked and ready to go when we pride ourselves on getting a quick jump once we start.
And that's factored into the contracts.
And our customers know it because some of these systems they want as quick as we can get it to them.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Bill on the U.K.
thing again.
In your judgment has this arbitration process in the letter of credit had any impact on your relationship with the British customer? We deal primarily with the Ministry of Defense and I can tell you we're in their top 1 2 3 or 4 as far as suppliers.
And we're proud of our relationship with the Ministry of Defense and it's been a good one long-term one and we continue to view them as a great partner.
LLC</strong> Dave on the share buyback how do you expect the cadence of the buyback to progress through the year? Have you started fairly low and expected to pick up as you go through the year? It's a fair question but I can't specifically talk about the cadence.
We did provide a full year guidance on from a diluted share standpoint ending the year somewhere between $353 million and $359 million shares outstanding.
That's still holds and I'm comfortable with that.
But it will be parsed out obviously.
We were a little over $300 million in the first quarter and we still would expect to be in that range as we close out the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> You're continuing to deliver very very good margins here.
Could you comment on the contracting environment right now? This has been something obviously you've talked about over the past year.
But are you seeing any changes? It seems like you're able to keep pushing this forward.
Is there more upside here? Yes Doug what I would say is the question is really on margins and not only are they sustainable but our customers have repeatedly told us and me they're willing to pay for performance.
In fact we see more of our contracts incentivizing us to do much more.
And for me that gives us an opportunity to perform even better.
Last year we had about 57% of our contracts for fixed price 43% were cost type.
And so for us this environment the fixed price is not something that bothers us.
I think for some companies that have been predominantly cost plus wishing the fixed price probably gives them pause.
But what we take on the fact that we understand our manufacturing readiness levels our technical readiness levels and we major those when we bid and the fact that we've got 8 000 programs or 15 000 contracts gets us very comfortable with this process.
And we worked hard for a number of years.
I think you know our mantra's performance here.
And that's the best possible position you could be in at this point in time.
You always worry that there's one program manager that will try and solve the entire defense budget and the nation's economy on one contract.
But our job here is to make sure that we're netted together in the company and we get to that.
And I can say those on the acquisition side from Ash Carter down.
Their lines and office stores are open and we're able to go in and talk to them if something doesn't seem reasonable.
So there's a lot of swirl.
But from our standpoint we have processes here and we know how to execute.
We've got great program managers and there's always going to be a one-off and that's where management comes in to make sure that both sides understand what needs to be done.
Inc.</strong> When you look forward over the next 2 to 3 years How would you describe your mixed changing in terms of development versus production or in terms of fixed price versus cost plus? We might see more on the fixed price especially since some of the large international orders would be that way which is good for the company and good for our customers.
And that wouldn't give me any kind of pause because people know how we perform internationally.
It's a large community but I always say it's one of the smallest in the international world.
Everybody knows how you're performing.
And I'm happy to say there isn't a place in the country or the world that I have a concern where we do business about visiting and talking about Raytheon's performance.
Inc.</strong> And is there a shift on your domestic work toward fixed price as well? From our standpoint preponderance of it really is already fixed price.
If you look at some of our Missile business you look at our radars you look at our communication or network or training it's already that way.
The cost plus is really in the development area some of the classified area and clearly the margins in those areas reflect cost plus.
But we're also seeing now which I'm excited about some opportunities in cost plus to be incentivized to even do more.
And that's exciting to us because as President Kennedy said about 50 years ago we do things because they're hard not because they're easy.
And when they're hard they bring together the talents and the resources of this company to knock it out of the park.
And your next question comes from the line of Joseph Campbell from Barclays Capital.
Bill a couple of folks have said in the procurement side in the various military departments that they have some apprehension about being able to get all the RFPs out and all the stuff obligated by the end of the government's fiscal year.
And I was wondering how you felt about it now that they've got their money they have to basically get a year's worth of work done in a half a year.
Where do you see the areas that you're not worried about where you think they were well prepared for this and are there other areas that look like they're more challenged? I would say the larger programs are probably more challenged because of the visibility.
It's hard on the acquisition teams mainly with things that happened in the past.
The tendency is to be a lot more cautious.
So the bigger programs are getting more visibility.
But if you look at our portfolio I think we only have two programs over $500 million in sales last year.
That predominance of our stuff is smaller programs.
We see those continuing to move.
And right now clearly our teams are side-by-side seeing what we can do to work together since we've been delayed for a few months here what can we do to expedite everything.
And I think if people remember kind of what I talked about on the calls last year was how Raytheon could take cycle time out of our processes and we worked hard the last four five months actually longer than that since last year to streamline both our international and our domestic processes so we could take and shorten our cycles.
So if the government increased in any way the overall cycle would look the same if you know what I mean.
This is something we've actually anticipated.
And now that the budget's signed for fiscal year '11 especially in areas of EW ISR cyber and missile defense we're off moving hard to get those moving because that's where the attention is.
On the same similar kind of what's going on in the Pentagon line how do you what are your insights into what the Pentagon will do with this Obama directed $400 billion? I mean will it show up all out in the back year so we won't care or will they actually sort of start all over again and potentially take a fair chunk up front? And I guess you know we now know it's going to be Panetta and Gates is out.
Inevitably there will be some differences between the SEC dept and how they approach this.
Any insights that will help us sort out whether this is the potentially a big thing in the 2013 budget or it's probably not? Since I'm not in charge this will make it really hard that we start up...
Everybody's entitled to an opinion and you're knowledgeable so we'll take it at that.
I'll start off by saying it's great to have someone as Secretary of Defense Gates' stature as being succeeded by someone with a breadth of experience like Leon Panetta.
Panetta brings a wealth of experience as the former Chairman of the House Budget Committee the Director of OMB Directors of the CIA and the White House Chief of Staff.
He has got a broad-based experience to tap into.
And if anybody understands the budget process he sure does.
With that in mind given that the President has asked for $400 billion if I was in charge it would be consistent with I think what Secretary Gates has said that you got to first start off with your roles and missions.
What do we need to do what is expected at DoD and how do they go about doing that? Once you understand it then you can put a price tag associated with that.
And that's the right way to go do it.
And if the roles and missions are agreed to and the price tag is higher then you got to go and cut some things out.
And I think it's going to be an interim process.
It'll take longer.
It will be more in the out period than it would be in the inside period.
Because clearly as a nation I think it would be hard for the President to ask DoD or the military to do something and somebody say well that's not budgeted or that's not what we're expected to do.
And Libya is probably a good example of that.
So it is a complicated world.
We have a great military.
They've responded whenever asked and they do it in a decisive manner.
So to answer your question specifically I'd probably say latter rather than sooner because it's complicated.
And Gates did the right thing by looking at the budget ahead of time and figuring out how to get money out of it early.
And he's made some tough calls.
And as someone in this industry I applaud him because once you understand what the calls are then you can right-size your work business.
You can double check your strategy you can look at things and take action.
It's the unknown that keeps you from making the right decisions.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Access 342.
Dave I wanted to pursue a little bit more the fourth quarter revenue.
Because the way it looks is you're projecting anywhere from 5% to 10% revenue growth despite the fact that you got five less days in the quarter.
So maybe we could be a little bit more specific in terms of orders that you expect like Saudi Patriot how much revenues is assumed in that fourth quarter guidance? How much revenues is assumed from quarters yet to be gotten? I think the way I can answer that is similar to what Bill addressed earlier.
From a booking cadence standpoint we've addressed that with respect to the way we see some of these international programs as well as domestic programs being layered in.
So to say late Q2 early Q3 and then the balance of the year.
What's important here to note is that we will effectively ramp very quickly once these orders are placed.
I don't think it's probably appropriate to start dissecting on a award by award basis but at this stage George we've looked at it pretty closely and we're comfortable with the third and fourth quarter revenue profile.
So that's the comfort we can give you at this point.
And frankly we started off the year stronger than we expected and we're going to continue to push into that direction.
And then just one other Dave if I kind of look at what Bill said about increase in international and the 26% growth in classified sales it works out that the other domestic sales had to be down around 8% give or take a little bit.
And that would be more than just $100 million decline in Zumwalt.
So what other programs domestically are effectively just declining? Well the CR was basically domestic for a couple of hundred million dollars.
I think maybe that's what's lost in the arithmetic there.
So between Zumwalt and the CR that made up $300 million to $350 million of the decline.
Let me get one last quick one for you.
You had a very low corporate and elim [eliminations] in the first quarter $37 million but you left the guidance at $260 million to $285 million through the year.
So was there some benefit in this quarter or what's going to cause some of these subsequent quarters to increase dramatically from the first quarter level? Typically the first quarter is lower than the balance of the year.
But as we ramp up on sales you'll see a fairly significant ramp up in corp and elims.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Just wanted to follow up first on George's last question and focus on Turkey in particular.
It seems like it'll be this is a couple of designed dollar bookings.
It's a big chunk of your international bookings for the year and I think last quarter you thought it was a near-end decision.
I think the elections have pushed that out to later this year and given the way those things go.
I just want to kind of belt how much of Turkey is in this year in terms of our revenue exposure? Almost nothing.
We're looking towards the latter end of the year from a potential award standpoint.
So the Turkey Patriot program is not a significant revenue driver this year.
And then a follow-up.
Bill you commented on the C-Base missile defense success.
I know the DoD is extremely happy with the sensor hand off you helped with in that test.
But can you give us some perspective on the ground-based missile defense performance over the last quarter with the January test failure and kind of some of the reports that were pointing towards the EKV as a contributor? Yes there's a component in the EKV that's there that we're going through what they call the FRB a Failure Review Board.
And between MDA the supplier and us and others we're going through to make sure that we absolutely understand what happened there.
And everything else in that particular program is moving forward.
Some of the confusion is that people think it's a death stop.
That's really not the case.
When you go through something like this in the missile world which I've spent most of my career in you take a look at what you think the fault trees are.
You go through that and as you eliminate the faults you start to focus in on the one two or in our case we always want to find out what are the three things that could have caused the failure.
And you work on all three but the focus on the primary.
And here that's exactly what we’re doing.
We should be wrapping that up shortly.
When we do that we'll put in what we believe is the corrective action and then we'll proceed to test it on the ground trying to introduce the fault and see what we can do in the new ultimately go to the flight test which is the real environment where you see vibration where you see all kinds of things happen with targets that are planned and unplanned.
So from our standpoint we're going through the processors.
Not a grave concern of laws of physics or anything like that.
It's what I affectionately call the forensic engineering that you go through to analyze the faults that might make a neat television shows some days at CSI gets so much attention on something else.
But that's what it's all about.
Any negative EAC could be absorbed into the exiting guidance range if there were any? Yes.
No problem there.
Your next question comes from the line Joe Nadol of JP Morgan.
On the classified side 26% growth it's a big big number.
I'm just wondering if you can give us anymore color on segments with just 1 driver or 5 drivers.
You said most of it the vast majority's organic so obviously that wasn't from applied signal.
But anything else you can give us? Yes.
Let me see what I can do with giving you some color around it.
About 11% in bookings came out of it are sales were about 16% for classified 26% increase as you heard.
We expect in the year bookings to be in the high single digit low double digit for us in class of 5.
We expect sales to be around 15%.
We expect that to be at 10% to 12% growth year-over-year.
That is about as far as I can go.
It's clear to us.
It's a driven in a couple of our businesses when we look at FAS and IIS and part of we felt a little bit of a throttling with the CR but now that that's behind we are overseeing the smaller contracts that we get in that area including cyber doing very well.
In fact Just to some color we had some great tech wins across-the-board especially in our core areas of radar C3I EO/IR and in the classified as I pointed out some good wins especially in cyber.
So you'd say cyber is maybe the dominant driver there? I wouldn't say dominant but it's moving the stronger of anything else.
Bill just on the state department can you give us a -- I know you talked a lot about the Pentagon and about the cycle.
Can you speak a bit to the State Department and how things are tracking there in terms of notification timing that sort of thing? Clearly what I see taking place there is something a little bit unprecedented.
And I give Secretary Gates credit for this because he took it on as they're really trying to expedite the export process and I do see commerce and state and DoD working on this.
We are keeping our fingers crossed that they're going to make their timeline of this summer.
And basically what will help is that we can take the preponderance of things and move them over into what I call the fast lane.
They don't need a lot of review we've released them.
They're not critical.
There are other capabilities in other countries.
And so that can kind of go into the fast lane much like you go on a turnpike when you get that card that let you go through quick.
But then there'll be stuff that has to go through the reviews between DoD and state.
And what I believe is that we have the fast lane and things go through that it will take some of the burden off the people that have to do the job every day so they can really focus on the complicated and what they should be working on.
And so from my standpoint I'm encouraged about that.
Some of the big orders have gotten through state and will be submitting some here shortly.
We just NYMEX for example is now in congressional notification.
That should go through smoothly and we kind of expect things to go through now that there's a budget there.
Not signing that budget really made it complicated for every government agency in Washington in my opinion.
Now it's behind us and let's get on with '12 and get moving.
Your next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood from Morgan Stanley.
Bill I'm also going to talk on the classified stuff and also try and tiptoe my way around it.
So you had the good classified wins.
Can you talk about how much of those wins reflect kind of more of the same that was kind of classic core Raytheon versus things you defined as stretch wins where you see yourself Raytheon heading into new businesses and competencies that maybe you didn't have say two or three years ago? First of all it's all black.
So you make it hard.
And it's a gut feel.
There's no analysis done on this whatsoever.
So it's my gut feel to what I'd know and I probably say 1/3 of what we're doing is new.
A follow-up.
The underlying competitions in IIS one of the things that you and I have talked many times about is that you wanted you'd once said that the award rates were too high and you really wanted your team to be reaching higher and taking more risk and having a lower ratio and trying to compete against more.
Can you give us an update on how that's looking now? Actually IIS has made a nice shift from a lot of their sole sourced business where the work came to them.
As the way I would describe it I believe you need a wolf instinct if I could pick one and I see IIS developing to that kind of business to where they can go out and we see it in the real small awards that wouldn't hit your radar screen but it hit ours.
If you look at jobs that are $1 million $2 million or $5 million or $10 million and they're doing very good about cultivating that setting the expectations right working with their customers.
You see it in programs that we have putting apps on the battlefield.
You see it in some of the things were doing in secure view of being able to look at passively what's happening on networks.
And we also have the ability to look for malware or things that can cause harm to the systems.
They have all of these applications that they're working with customers and given the fact that in the 1s and zeros world everything travels at the speed of a click and the threat more is so on a daily basis and they're doing very good at being a wolf in that environment.
And I'm encouraged our win rates are  still extremely high which means we've got to continue to open the aperture but make sure we stay about one swim lane over so that we understand the risk and we manage the risk and we keep delivering the kinds of margins that you all expect from us.
Bill just one last one.
As we sort of contemplate this new environment we're in we've got -- talking about more large weapons cut ahead.
Very few in environment or very few new programs starts.
Do you see Raytheon's opportunity moving at all from funding and weapons more over towards O&amp;M? If I were to think back in the last down cycle when DoD was lacking funds to buy new kit there was a focus to changing the need towards refurbing existing systems and is that what you're sort of anticipating ahead and what does that mean for Raytheon? I think the way we look at it I really do believe we thrive on challenges.
I mean you can sit here and say “Oh woe it was me.” Or you can look at it and say something got canceled or this happened.
There's always an opportunity.
You just have to be quick and agile enough and have a portfolio of capabilities and a talented workforce that can adjust.
So if something gets canceled it means you have to keep running or performing with what you have.
Otherwise you have mediocrity.
And this country has never been mediocre.
So from my standpoint we've come up with our radars our EOIR Systems or command-and-control or something else that can keep that platform or system going because the threat's not going away.
And so you want to keep it running until you can put in a new start.
So for us I wouldn't call it O&amp;M work.
I really see it much like we can do to F-15s or F-16s in airborne radars.
What we can do on the ground and EO systems to be able to keep the existing system current and actually take care of future threats.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citigroup.
Just a quick question more of a clarification.
You said I think that the book to bill that you expected for the year was 1.06 to 1.08 which means that you're expecting total bookings for the year kind of in the $27 billion plus range is that right? Yes that's right.
Can you just help maybe provide us some comfort on why we're going to see such a big acceleration into the back half of the year.
You don't think you've seen bookings at $7-plus billion maybe a handful of times over the last several years on a quarterly basis and I looked back over time you haven't had bookings of $27 billion in maybe the last five or six years.
Could you maybe just cite anecdotally some process things that may have they kind of lead to this acceleration of bookings as we move through the rest of the year? This is Bill.
In my opening question when I talked about international I probably ripped through about $4 billion or $5 billion worth of international there very quickly.
And so I think that answers your question.
We can see that in the back end.
We also see that things started off slower this year.
So the number I gave of $27.5 million plus or minus $500 million is still the number.
Anything specifically at the DoD outside the CR that's going to allow for any acceleration? Well if you look at it we have missile domestic awards coming in.
We have operational training we have some more standard missile development work.
We've got AMRAAM.
There is some domestic Homeland Security contracts that we're working on now that are in negotiation.
And we have one competitive program JAGM that will go in and probably won't happen on our timeline and we've got that factored in heavily because we factor all of these programs when you put them in.
So from our standpoint that's kind of how we see it.
So those are the program's specific things.
But anything from a process prospective that has held things up.
Do you think is now loosening up and allowing...
The CR really help things up.
People can't start a new program if they don't have the funding.
They can't put in options that are in the contract can't be exercised.
So that's why I said earlier it's not a science to figure out.
There's no science here on figuring out the impact of CR.
And we try to give you an idea at least there was $500 000 of bookings that we thought couldn't take credit for.
Can you provide any type of update on the self-imposed investigation that you're doing on the Foreign Corrupt Business act when we might see that come to its logical conclusion? No we disclosed in our public filings and we will update everyone at the appropriate time.
And that's had no impact on the International business.
Correct.
Okay thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter conference call in July.
Alicia? Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deanna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Deanna.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll be referencing are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive about the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon delivered a solid quarter with sales margin and EPS all exceeding our expectations.
Our adjusted operating margin was 12.4% and was driven by our continued focus on performance across the businesses.
Year-to-date adjusted operating margin increased to 12.5% up 10 basis points compared to 2010.
In the quarter our book-to-bill was a 1.2 driven in part by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's decision to upgrade their Patriot System which we announced at the Paris Air Show in June.
This booking once again demonstrates that when it comes to choosing the most advanced integrated air and missile defense systems global customers continue to look to Raytheon and to Patriot.
As you know an important part of our strategy is to continue to grow our international market.
Our presence at the air show reaffirmed our commitment to this strategy and to our international customers.
For us this was a record year at the air show where we met with approximately 2 100 customers from 63 nations and 44 delegations.
It gave me an opportunity to personally meet with many of the delegations and customers.
I was encouraged by the conversations.
Our cutting-edge technologies our innovative solutions continue to be well aligned with their evolving requirements particularly in the areas of air and missile defense global ISR Air Traffic Management Homeland Security and training.
I went into the show feeling good about our international opportunities and I left feeling more confident.
The threat level around the world remains high and despite competing priorities our customers continue to place a heightened emphasis on investments in defense and security.
From company perspective we have an excellent pipeline and the key is to convert these bookings within the planned timeframe.
Domestically our customers work through the quarter to put the extended continuing resolution behind them.
The funding recovery was slow to start but it picked up steam through the quarter.
Our efforts to keep programs on cost and on schedule during the CR paid off and we're able to report domestic revenue ahead of our expectations.
Domestic book-to-bill was greater than one in the quarter.
We understand that this environment is dynamic.
Our customers being asked to do more with no more and is looking for innovative ways to meet what is demanded of them.
This is the new reality and it fits well with our focus on delivering capabilities and solutions that offer more value.
We not only see this in our core markets but we also see examples of this in our growth markets.
For example as we approach the electronic warfare or EW market from various perspectives we can apply our capabilities in manipulating RF signals to attack deny and defend against an adversary.
Our products include the ALR-69A which will go on the new tanker the KC-46A; the ALR-67 for the 18 E/F and our Miniature Air Launch Decoys MALD; plus a host of other classified products.
The key here is that our EW capabilities are truly a force multiplier for our customers worldwide allowing them to leverage existing platforms at reduce costs to continue to execute their missions.
This is yet another example of how Raytheon's platform-agnostic approach to the market creates values for our customers.
Offering innovative solutions to meet customer needs is only part of the equation.
Doing so efficiently with the right balance of resources is another.
For many years now we've also we've been focused on delivering greater value and predictability to our customers and shareholders by improving cost efficiencies and program performance.
We've achieved this by leveraging the power of Raytheon's Six Sigma and optimizing our supply chain.
Our supply chain initiative is allowing us to streamline our buying processes reduce costs and increase efficiencies.
This focus is producing real savings today as evidenced by our track record of solid operating results.
Going forward we've redoubled our efforts to reduce costs and are targeting additional opportunities across all areas of expense.
Further we are focusing on enhancing our capital efficiency by reducing our footprint and optimizing our facility utilization.
These are just some of the examples of how we're finding more ways to produce savings for our customers and drive incremental returns for our shareholders.
We believe this focus is the right approach in the current economic environment.
And for us our track record of achieving cost efficiencies speaks for itself.
As I look at the quarter I see a company that continues to perform well and delivers considerable value for our customers and our shareholders.
We remain well positioned in an evolving marketplace.
We continue to make targeted investment in growth areas and are taking the necessary actions to ensure the company remains healthy and competitive.
I'm proud of the dedicated natural Raytheon team for rising to the challenge again and again.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with second quarter highlights and then we'll move on to the questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the Web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
Okay if everyone would please turn to Page 3.
As Bill noted we performed well in the second quarter with sales margin and EPS all exceeding our expectations.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $7.4 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.2.
The strong bookings were driven in part by the previously announced $1.7 billion Saudi Patriot award.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.39 also improved over the same period last year and adjusted operating margin with 12.4% reflecting continued strong performance across the business.
Sales were $6.2 billion which I'll address further in just a moment.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations with an outflow of $91 million for the quarter and on a year-to-date basis is tracking to our expectations.
We are increasing our full year cash flow outlook by $100 million which I'll address further in a few minutes along with other updates to our 2011 guidance.
During the quarter the company repurchased 6.4 million shares of common stock to $313 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 12.5 million shares for $625 million.
Turning now to Page 4 let me start by providing some detail on our second quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $7.4 billion and on a year-to-date basis were $12.5 billion.
In addition to the $1.7 billion Saudi Patriot booking at IDS other notable bookings included: $315 million at missile systems for the development of Standard Missile-3 for the Missile Defense Agency and $200 million for the production of Standard Missile-6 for the U.S.
Navy; and SAS booked $109 million on an international program.
Technical Services booked $612 million for domestic training and $119 million for foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS program.
TS also booked $100 million for base operations maintenance and support services in Australia.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was a strong $34.5 billion.
If you'd now move to Page 5.
Sales were slightly above our expectations.
By business IDS had second quarter 2011 net sales of $1.3 billion.
The change in IDS sales was primarily due to lower volume on the Zumwalt program as a result of the revised funding profile which I spoke about on prior calls.
IIS had second quarter 2011 net sales of $752 million compared to $472 million in the second quarter of 2010.
As a reminder last year's net sales included an adjustment related to the U.K.
Border Agency program for $316 million.
It is worth noting that during the quarter we filed our counterclaim against the U.K.
Border Agency for the collection of receivables and damages in the amount of $800 million.
We don't anticipate any change to our reserve position and we don't expect to make any further comment until the final resolution which isn't expected until mid-2013.
Missile Systems had net sales of $1.4 billion.
The change was primarily due to lower sales on SM-2 driven by lower plant production build rates.
NCS had net sales of $1.1 billion.
The change in net sales was primarily due to the planned decline in production of U.S.
Army sensor programs.
Space and Airborne Systems had net sales of $1.3 billion in the quarter up 12% driven by the growth on intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance systems programs and international airborne tactical radar program and higher net sales related to Raytheon Applied Signal Technology which was acquired in the first quarter of 2011.
And Technical Services had sales up modestly compared with the same period last year.
Moving ahead to Page 6 we are pleased by our overall company margin performance.
Our adjusted margin was 12.4%.
On a year-to-date basis our adjusted margin was 12.5% up 10 basis points over the comparable period in 2010.
The strength in our underlying margin was due to our continued focus on execution as we have discussed on prior calls and includes the benefits related to our ongoing cost efficiency initiatives.
So looking at business margins NCS margins were up in the quarter compared with the same period last year the result of solid operating performance.
IDS and Technical Services' margins were essentially in line with prior year's Q2.
When you look at IIS if you normalize for the costs related to the U.K.
Border Agency program in both the second quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2010 margins were essentially in line at slightly over 8%.
Missiles' underlying margins were strong and absorbed $15 million related to a contractual settlement.
At SAS the change in margins was primarily due to the acquisition and integration-related cost for Applied Signal Technology which impacted SAS' margins by approximately 70 basis points in the quarter.
We're very pleased with the performance of AST the integration is was going well and they are tracking to our expectations.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
Turning now to Page 7 second quarter 2011 adjusted EPS was $1.39.
The increase was driven by capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases and on a year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $2.77 up 7% from the same period last year.
Okay.
If you please turn to Page 8 I'd like to briefly comment on our updated outlook for the year.
We've tightened the range for full year 2011 net sales reducing the high end by $400 million.
We now expect sales to be in a range of between $25.5 billion and $25.9 billion.
We expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 28.3%.
This reflects our recently approved tax-related benefit of $55 million including interest or $0.15 per diluted share related to multiple prior years' tax filings.
This will be booked in the third quarter.
As a result we've increased our full year GAAP EPS outlook announcing the range of $4.82 to $4.97 per share.
And as I've discussed a few minutes ago we've increased our guidance for operating cash flow from continuing operations by $100 million to between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion.
Year-to-date cash flow is tracking to our initial guidance that we provided back in January 2011 where the cadence of cash generation was weighted to the second half of the year largely due to the timing of some specific working capital items.
We have one additional payroll period in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 2010 as well as the burn down of some advances on international programs that's expected to be offset in the second half based on recent order activity.
Essentially our view of the cadence of cash flow from operations hasn't changed.
However our confidence in the magnitude of the improvement working capital has which is driving the increase in our guidance.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've reflected the change in our guidance by business.
The increase in margin guidance reflects the expected additional benefits of our productivity and efficiency initiatives.
Overall we're pleased with the results of our operational improvements and the margin we have delivered while at the same time passing along savings to our customers.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales EPS and operating cash flow from continuing operations.
Before we open it up for Q&amp;A let me summarize.
We saw solid performance in the second quarter and in many areas exceeded the guidance we provided back in April.
We had strong bookings solid sales in a challenging environment strong margins and earnings per share.
And we've increased our cash flow outlook for the year.
Looking ahead we're well positioned to address the opportunities and also the challenges in our industry with the diverse portfolio of innovative technologies.
We remain focused on delivering best value for our customers and our shareholders.
This includes making sure the company continues to be proactive and have the right cost structure to operate effectively and efficiently in a dynamic and evolving marketplace.
With that Bill and I will open the call up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from the line of George Shapiro Access 342.
David look -- from the guidance I mean you took down several of the sectors by $100 million at the high-end and it looks like the most of it came out of the fourth quarter.
Can you just give the thought process as to what's going on since it's a change for multiple sectors? Yes so you'll recall that when we gave initial guidance back in January for the year we had a range of about $800 million and it was the widest range certainly in recent history.
And that's just as a result of what was going on.
Midpoint through the year we have better clarity.
I wouldn't say there is anything specific in any of the segments.
Again we have good visibility for the third and fourth quarter.
We've been able to tighten up our expectations of the timing of awards and how these will play out from a sales standpoint.
So there's nothing remarkable.
I just feel that we have a better view of how we're going to close out 2011.
I do want to point out one thing.
This does not reflect any loss of business.
Again it's just a retiming and a better gauge on how we see things playing out.
And then a follow-up.
My old pet peeve that you effectively beat your own earnings guidance in the quarter by about $0.10.
And it looks like in terms of a new distribution of earnings in Q3 and Q4 you took out somewhere around $0.10 in the Q3 and Q4 probably due to the lower sales potential.
I mean is that a fair way to look at it? Well let me try to put it a little bit differently okay? And I had a sense George that you might ask me this question.
So here's the way I think about it.
We improved the first half from an EPS standpoint of say I don't know $0.14 $0.15 $0.16.
And that was driven by the timing of the cost efficiencies that Bill spoke to earlier and I spoke to a little bit as well.
Then we tightened the sales range in the back half of the year for both the third and the fourth quarter and we offset roughly $50 million of associated earnings again principally with the cost efficiencies.
So when you stand back from this we're continuing to drive margins and earnings results from cost efficiencies as we tighten up the sales guidance from a full year standpoint.
It's a first half second half thing George.
The next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Dave can you I guess talk a little bit about some of the margins and then just look again at that first half second half issue? Like SAS in particular how do you get the margins up to that 13.3% 13.5% level given the 12.7% for the first half? Is that a specific program that we'll see an appropriate adjustment in one quarter? Or is that something different? And then I guess at the same time on NCS you have the reverse issue where the second half would imply much lower margins and can you talk about that? Right.
So SAS continues to perform well.
I would say on virtually every level of the business.
So from a margin perspective specifically the timing of productivity improvements in that business are second half weighted.
Notwithstanding the broader company from an SAS business perspective you'll see greater improvements from a productivity standpoint flowing through their financials in the third and fourth quarter.
With respect to NCS the year-to-date margins are higher than guidance and that was driven by a couple of things both the productivity and cost efficiency actions that were taken in NCS as well as mix.
They had a fairly strong level of sales in some production programs and that also helped out margins in the first half.
So again it's I would say there's nothing too remarkable in either of the businesses.
It's simply timing from first half to second half.
And the next question is from the line of Robert Spingarn Crédit Suisse.
Dave did you provide the full year bookings guidance? I don't know if I heard it.
Well that's a good question Rob.
We actually don't provide formal guidance on bookings.
We have a target for bookings that has not changed since our initial guidance of $27.5 billion for the year plus or minus $500 million.
And it's probably important to note that about 30% of that will come from international sales.
Let me just ask the next question that you're probably going to -- let me answer the next question that you're probably going to ask me anyway.
So from a book-to-bill standpoint we still expect to close out the year in the 1.06  to 1.08 range and I suggest that we're biased toward the higher end of that range.
Okay.
So it doesn't really change much even though the high end of the sales guidance changes a little bit there for the book-to-bill calculation? But it's close.
And so Bill I would ask you what are the major things on the horizon that get you there? What are the swing factors? A ton of stuff.
Let's see if I can go through them.
Probably international is the easiest one.
We've got to TPY-2 radars in back half in Q4.
Those could be in the let's say $800 million to $1 billion range.
We've got Patriot in there whether you're looking at Taiwan or Kuwait.
Those are both late in Q4.
Totaled up together those could be say in the $1 billion to $2 billion range as we see it.
We've got some missile activity especially in Paveway we expect in Q3 early Q4 we have a signed contract that could be in the $500 million to $600 million range.
We see air traffic control radars in the $100 million to $200 million in the Q3 Q4.
We see missiles worth about another $300 million to $400 million in various orders various countries right across both quarters.
Training is about $300 million the next 2 quarters.
And we expect an announcement some time probably in Q4 on Turkey.
And then we'll see where we go from there.
As you know that's a competitive -- a venue that's taking place there.
And then we've started talk with Oman on air and missile defense and that could be in the $1 billion to $2 billion range.
So internationally pretty good.
If you look domestically probably $1 billion worth of missile stuff to go.
And the rest is our standard contracts under $50 million which we have hundreds of them that take place.
So that's kind of how we look at the next 2 quarters and what we have in front of us we've seen good growth internationally.
Our bookings in the quarter were 36% international sales were about 26% of that.
And we see the year bookings international probably be in around 30% so it's going to be a little higher and sales should be about 25%.
So there's a lot going on and as we've said at the beginning of the year it hasn't changed.
We expect the second half to be busy for us.
And of course the economic environment puts a cloud over everything.
But that isn't stopping us from what we have in front of us and the air show convinced me that these customers still want what we have.
And just as a follow-up to that Bill.
The CR that we had and the potential for another one here how does that enter into the thinking on everything you just said at least domestically? That's how we would look at it and our job is to get these things done so we can ramp up quicker.
I mean if you look at it both Dave and I mentioned the Saudi award.
We are getting ready to start congressional notification.
But from our standpoint as a company we've released some funds to get all the planning and orders stacked up and get us ready so that the day we get the greenlight we've got a lot of preplanning and stuff already in the hopper ready to go rather than start from scratch when that happens.
So we're trying to preposition stuff so we've got a good jump on it.
And the next question will come from the line of Heidi Wood Morgan Stanley.
Bill on another topic I wondered if you would  give us a sense about how you're thinking about incumbency.
Under Gates he was pretty a strong proponent of incumbency.
And I wonder if you could give us some color on how you think Panetta mayor may not vary.
And of course for you it cuts both ways.
You have both incumbency and you're pushing in some critical areas to oust some incumbents such as the Aegis system recompete.
So can you talk to us a little bit about the strategy for that in a defense budget down cycle? Yes incumbency I mean I guess the way we look at it here is competition is a way of life.
And what you try and do is get your business sized properly.
That's why when you look at us we proactively manage our headcounts.
We manage our facilities and our utilization so that we can compete on any given day.
And once you get behind that eight ball that we all learned from the '90s it's hard to get around it.
And we've learned to stay in front of it.
And that's the way we look at competition.
And as you say it goes both ways.
But for me this company competes all the time.
I mean I know you like technology.
And if you just look at some of our wins these are small jobs in the $2 million to $20 million range.
But we're winning advanced wireless networks where we give the individual soldier network radio nodes on the battlefield.
So think of it as a soldier's information system.
We have advanced cryptographic modernization where we're providing secure radios; we've 2 contracts there we just got that are worth about $50 million in total; and advanced detectors advanced human factors advanced missile programs advanced sensors for IEDs.
I could go on and on.
But every day we compete here.
And you're right it goes both ways.
And if you're competitive and you have good processes that can spin quickly on a dime I think you're ready for competition and I don't see it changing.
Internationally we compete every day.
So when you look at our international growing at high single digits it's part of our DNA.
I guess that's the way to describe it Heidi.
I don't lose any sleep on it.
Okay great.
Did that get what you're looking for? Well I just can't readily recollect in the last 3 or 4 years any major upsets on -- and it seems that we've seen a repeated pattern of incumbency again which is good for you in the areas where you're strong.
But I'm just wondering in terms of the attempt to penetrate to the...
Well Heidi since you gave me that opening and how about Small Diameter Bomb where we expected to lose.
I could go through.
I just don't want to impugn or any of our competitors when I -- we don't gloat.
We just get up everyday and make the donuts here and do our job.
And the next question will come from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Dave what was the sales growth number when you adjust for e-Borders and you adjust for AST? What do you see as kind of organic growth in the quarter? Did sales actually decline? It was around -- if you adjust for e-Borders it was around flat year-over-year organically.
Okay.
And then any sense of what AST contributed in the quarter? AST in the quarter was -- had about $56 million in sales and roughly $90 million year-to-date most of it obviously being classified.
Okay.
And then following up on that it looks like the sales guidance implies a bit of a pick up relative to that in the second half.
In particular it looks likes at missiles and NCS.
Can you just comment on what gives you guys the confidence that you're going to actually see your sales pickup in the back half of the year relative to what you saw in the first half? Sure yes.
Well Bill just mentioned the Small Diameter Bomb II and that will be ramping up by way of example.
And there's other programs in the missiles group not quite that size but they're also ramping up from a production standpoint.
With respect to NCS that ramp is based on both some wins.
Again it's a very robust portfolio of a lot of smaller-type programs.
Wins that took place in the second quarter and that we're expecting in the third quarter when we're expecting to ramp up there as well.
We're comfortable with the second half sales guidance.
Okay.
Last one for me.
At NCS the 15% margin in the quarter were there any EAC adjustments any one-timers in that number there? No and maybe I didn't go -- I wasn't quite as clear as I should've been with one of your colleagues.
There was some favorable impact from mix I talked about our production program.
And that was both internationally and domestically.
And they just did an excellent job with respect to bringing forward some cost productivity and cost efficiency initiatives.
So there wasn't anything remarkable there.
The only area that I would say that something was sort of a non-recurring for lack of a better term was the contractually -- a contractual-related settlement in missile systems.
But other than that there was nothing else in the company.
And the next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Bill I've got a sort of a big picture question for you.
I was wondering if your general view of the outlook has deteriorated over the last couple of months given the situation on the U.S.
domestic front.
And whether that's having an impact on your decision-making with regard to the deployment of capital? Well put in perspective I think if you look at what's going on as a country we need to make sure that nation doesn't default on its obligations.
We need a balanced plan that reduces the deficits and burns down our national debt.
And we need a foundation for true economic growth in my opinion.
It's difficult to do all of this as we can read in the papers.
And the administration and the Congress need to get it done.
I personally I won't speak for the company here.
But me personally I'm cautiously optimistic that we'll reach a conclusion here in time.
And the Senate and the House in my opinion have to reach a compromise.
And that's the thing we have to get done.
Given that as a backdrop from our point of view you've seen our forecast.
As we go forward I'll have Dave comment here on the capital.
But from our standpoint we look at our balance sheet it's a strong balance sheet.
We don't have to do anything different in that regard.
We have the strength to invest in ourselves which we're going to continue to do because as a company you go through these cycles and those that are strong well run have invested in themselves in a good portfolio come out of that period firing on all cylinders.
And that's what we expect to do.
So that's kind of how I look at it though ask David if he's got anything.
Yes just to echo a little bit of what Bill just mentioned.
A few years back one of the strategic thrusts that Bill put forward was to have an exceptionally solid financial foundation.
The balance sheet is very very healthy.
The pension plan is tracking toward being fully funded from a PPA basis of say 2013 we should have closed out this year just under 90%.
We have been I think fairly forward-leaning from a share repurchase program.
We've increased dividends for 6 or 7 years in a row now.
We have continued to invest in ourselves from a technology standpoint as well as in many other areas and I don't see that changing going forward.
Someone asked earlier about M&amp;A.
Bill set out a strategy on M&amp;A and we've been executing along those lines for the last few years and we don't see any wholesale changes in that area either.
We'll continue to look at acquisitions to fill important technology gaps for the company and add real incremental value to shareholders looking forward.
So again notwithstanding the environment that we all find ourselves in I think you can expect Raytheon to continue to deliver for its customers and its shareholders.
And I would add one last thing.
The most important thing in times like this is to be transparent.
And that's what we try to do more than anything.
So what you see is what you get.
And the next question will come from the line of Jason Gursky Bernstein &amp; Co.
I'm actually with Citigroup.
Two quick questions.
I found it curious Bill that you mentioned that we started out of the gate pretty slow with the CR but things from an order perspective have started to accelerate.
I was wondering if you just give us a sense of whether that continues today and whether you think the acceleration of orders has progressively gotten better as time has gone by and whether you expect that to continue as we move into the back half of the year? And then one question for Dave.
I see that both in the quarter and in the first half of the year R&amp;D is down a little bit.
I was wondering if you could just give us a sense of what the trajectory of that is going to be for the rest of the year? Okay thanks.
From our standpoint we see the pace continuing here.
The one concern that I might have is that through all these budget drills that we don't lose our focus on keeping things going.
Fortunately the 2 are somewhat separated now.
So I see the domestic continuing to flow in that regard.
And the quicker we can get through the current talks here and figure out what we're going to do both short term whether it's the House Bill or the Senate Bill between Reid and Boehner here that the better it will be as I said I'm cautiously optimistic that they're going to reach a conclusion here which will allow people to continue doing what they're doing so we can stay on track.
But it's kind of how I look at them.
I'm not expecting a change and I'd expect the cadence to keep on going here.
And so yes with respect to R&amp;D it's timing.
We actually expect to increase our R&amp;D year-over-year by about 5%.
And as a percent of sales it'll go up to roughly 2.6% 2.7% range.
So it's just timing between second quarter and third quarter.
I also think it's important to keep in mind that that does not include well over $1 billion a year for contracts under the umbrella of CRAD which is also R&amp;D.
So the company's continuing to focus in that area.
And the next question will come from the line of Peter Arment Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Bill I guess just more of kind of a bigger picture or a philosophical question.
When you look at the kind of domestic portfolio you look at the entire mix of programs that you have.
And I think you mentioned in the past something like 8 000 programs or 15 000 contracts.
How should we think about your ability to just kind of stay above the trajectory of the DoD budget? I think everyone's expecting kind of a nose down direction going forward.
Is it just the mix that gives you confidence? And maybe you could just give us a little color on that? Yes mix helps us also probably about 60% 2/3 of our business is DOD.
Good balances international mix on top of that and then it's a mix of others.
For us I already gave some of the -- where we expect bookings to be this year internationally in the 30% range and sales of 25%.
If I look at classified we expect about 10% of our bookings to be there sales should be in the 15% 16% range.
We expect double-digit growth in the classified.
That's a good market for us.
We do extremely well there with our technologies.
In the cyber area we are seeing double-digit growth.
We are seeing RFP starting to flow in a more discipline market there.
If you think about us the way I like to describe it is that we have 24 contracts that make up about 25% of our sales.
The next 120 contracts make up the next 25%.
And then thousands of contracts make up the next 50%.
And it's the next thousands of contracts that we see on a daily basis across the gamut across different customer bases and that's what we really believe is where the future is because people still need to get things done.
And the pressure is is they're not going to buy new but they need capabilities and they need solutions to their problems.
And at the air show it was really nice to sit down with our customers and listen to the challenges they're facing and the things we have in our portfolio that are already developed that don't need any new activity that can help them solve their problems whether it's in Asia or whether it's in the Middle East.
So it really is the mix and just the -- if you're a techy like me you look at our portfolio it is a candy store.
There's a lot in there.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
And regarding I guess the latest on the cyber front this year talking about sort of on the bleeding edge here.
We've heard a little bit about -- recently a lot of the contracts opportunities are being bundled into fed IT kind of contracts.
And you were -- deliberately did not want to build up a big "Fed IT kind of helpdesk" business.
I mean do you still see that Raytheon is well positioned to get a lot of these cyber contract opportunities? How should we think about that? Yes I don't think the bottom is Fed IT.
This cyber threat is very sophisticated.
It's not your standard ones and zeros business.
And what we see are specific efforts in this and this requires a good architecture thinking.
From us we have to protect ourselves and everybody can see what's going on in the world there.
They've actually brought a lot of attention to this problem.
So we look at it in a way that it's causing people to focus on it.
We continue to make sure that our products are protected.
And then the last aspect here is given what we do in the other 2 it gives us a real natural of understanding the domain knowledge that's needed to provide the systems or services in this market.
So we look at the specific RFPs that there's only going to be a small cadre of people that can do what's being asked to be done if that helps.
And the next question will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Bill you gave a nice review of your foreign order potentials.
I didn't hear in there the potential for missiles and other deals associated with the Saudi F-15 buy or their potential helicopter buy.
How big is that number? And was it embedded in the numbers you gave us? No it wasn't Cai.
I didn't go through the domestic because there wasn't anything in there that I thought would get somebody's attention.
But if you look at it in missiles we probably got $1 billion to $1.5 billion to go in bookings there and those are our standard missile AMRAAM Paveway 9Xs I could go on but those are laid out programmed budgeted so we expect that.
Then you across the gamut of the business you're right we've got some F-18s in there maybe $150 million in that.
We've got some training that in Warfighter that could be another $150 million or so.
But there's nothing -- it's the standard bread and butter of what we do every quarter that's why I didn't go through it.
But we got it all laid out and it appears to all be on track.
LLC</strong> But so what you're saying vis-à-vis the items that would be in the Saudi F-15 buy and the Saudi helicopter buy? We don't have the Saudi helicopter buy in there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So if we take the totality of the Saudi F-15 buy and the Saudi helicopter buy how big would each of those be to you without kind of going through whether it's missiles or electronics or what it is? We haven't broken it out that way and we probably wouldn't talk about it way Cai until it's all finished and finalized given that customer and given we have 2 customers the platform and the end-item customer.
And you know me I don't like talking about what our international customers are going to go do until it's done.
LLC</strong> Well is it in your plan? Let me rephrase the question is it your target? Yes I mean we forecast and factor everything yes.
It's not like we've forgotten it.
LLC</strong> Great.
And a question for Dave.
Your $15 million contract adjustment the missiles what was that about? And can you itemize were there any other I guess you have to sort them but to be more specific anywhere else in your business that you had any other pluses or minuses that we would consider sort of special? No there wasn't any other items across the company that you might consider "special." And with respect to the settlement we're not going to get into that publicly at this point.
But again we see it as an event that took place in the second quarter and not to be repeated in the back half of the year.
LLC</strong> And the last one we've seen a number of other companies where we didn't think there was much up-tempo business being impacted Northrop to be specific.
Do you have any -- how big is your up-tempo related business? And what are you seeing? Do you see any incremental risk there? No I would actually strongly suggest that there's not a lot of incremental risk there.
We've been fairly thoughtful at what we're seeing at the back half of the year and going forward.
And that book of business is come down to almost a rounding error from a Raytheon perspective.
And the next question will come from the line of Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein and Company.
Inc.</strong> I'd like to talk a little bit about international and the competitive situation.
When you look at Turkey where you've got Russian Chinese European systems and a lot of companies being fairly aggressive in other countries trying to pick up their own business space.
How is this playing out for you? Are you seeing more situations where you've got basically tougher terms in terms of putting content in countries in pricing? Can you talk a little bit about that? Yes I think Turkey I could wax eloquently there.
I mean if you want to buy a view graph you can probably buy a view graph.
If you want to buy a system that takes 5x the manning or 10x the spares or costs you double in 5 years then you go by that kind of system.
The good news is we're competing with something that's proven.
What we always realize is that countries make political decisions and you don't change your business model because of that.
You continue to offer the price that's right or the value that's right and countries have to decide.
Saudi Arabia is a good example of upgrading what they have with a proven system.
So we kind of look at it that way.
Internationally the marketplace is the same.
We compete and have competed my whole career internationally and it feels about the same.
I mean nothing's really dramatically changed.
What we do is we understand the job we price in the appropriate risk and we want to make sure that we give our shareholders the returns they expect out of us.
And that's why I said earlier we spent a lot of time proactively managing our expenses and our costs so that we can compete internationally and domestically.
The way I'd like to think about it is if you think about 8 years ago we had about $18 billion in sales with 78 000 employees.
Today we have $25 billion with 72 000 employees.
So we continue to get more efficient we continue to deliver strong margins and so forth.
So that's kind of how you have to look at it.
One of the things you don't see it in our reviews here but when we bid a program we're always very very conscious of what are the corners here what cash flow is needed what margins are needed what risk we should be taking on and can we deliver? And that hasn't changed from that standpoint.
So I don't know if I'm really answering your question but the temperature of the water feels about the same to me.
Inc.</strong> So no greater pressure with respect to margins off bids...
No we are not sitting here in a bid and we've got to take 10% of way that the company in a position that people would look and say "What the heck are you guys doing?" I've made the comment.
We are we want to be as transparent as we possibly can for our investors.
And you expect us to continue to deliver the same kind of returns that we've delivered.
Inc.</strong> And then if I can on the domestic side Dave you're seeing domestic book-to-bill above one.
But if you look down within that and you look at the areas that are stronger versus ones that maybe weaker how would you see it? I mean I look at your missiles backlog it's coming down a little bit we've seen some pressure on missile systems in the Hack D[ph].
How are you seeing different pieces of that domestic market? Well it's not unique to any one product area or any one business.
And I mean we've talked about this 10 different ways.
I mean we have thousands of different programs.
And I would say there is areas of strength and there's areas of focus for the company.
We've talked a lot about ISR.
I would say that's probably a standout across the company.
You saw what SAS delivered in the second quarter from a sales standpoint.
Bookings were also very very strong.
And they're not the only business that participate in ISR.
I mean that's across 4 of our business areas.
So from that standpoint from a missile defense standpoint from an EW standpoint it's the things that you and others would be familiar with.
And just to chime in here the back half is a big one for missiles.
As I mentioned we expect $300 million to $500 million of international in missiles.
We've already got a signed contract for about $500 million on Paveway that we need to get notified so we can start off.
And then domestically I mentioned we've got about $1 billion to $1.5 billion of bookings coming in in Q3 and Q4.
So that's going to build up their backlog as we go into it.
And yes the next question will come from the line of Howard Rubel Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Dave if I do the math I think your organic growth is down maybe 1% or 2% and the sort of the softball part of the question though is Bill if you look at Patriot System today it's substantially different from when it was when you were going around the world first selling it.
So there's 2 parts to this.
One is that what cues are you getting from the market? I mean if you're down 1% to 2% and the reality is that the world's changed how are you thinking about positioning the company for virtually no growth or minimal growth? And then are there enough opportunities like the upgrade of this or the NextGen AMRAAM that sort of make a difference to beat this market of very little growth? Yes I think the way Howard is your strategy is not done on a day-by-day basis as you know as well as I do.
So for us our strategy has been to make sure that we position ourselves in the right markets.
We think we've done that in cyber we think we've done that in Homeland Security.
I think you picked up rightly so recently EW should be the next growth market.
You heard me touch base on that.
The way we think of our company and to be able to do things in this environment is that you have to not only move forward but you have to move backward.
And by backward I mean is how do you keep running the things that are getting old.
And some places internationally and domestically won't be able to afford to redo and start new but they want to capability to make it almost like new if that makes sense.
And so from our standpoint we look to being able to take systems and make them like they are a new development.
And we have a portfolio of everything from radars to missiles to EO systems to communication that we can go new and we can go backwards to make like new.
And that's how we expect to power through this thing and be ready for the next up-cycle as we go.
And our technologists are continuing to work on ways to do that.
Take radars for example.
Gallium nitride we'll be able to upgrade every phase we've ever built with new technology as we go forward.
And I could go through the EO world the RF world even the C4I world for that matter.
And I'm really encouraged by some of the new technologies that I see our teams working on.
They are eye watering and orders of magnitude different than what I grew up with.
And you're right about Patriot.
There is a system that's over 2/3 brand new.
And when you see what we're delivering and the capabilities and the upgrades it's going to be going for a long time way past me.
So Howard.
Howard this is Dave.
Let me just clarify something you have mentioned.
When you spoke to the growth rate earlier.
What I was suggesting was on a full year basis we would be around breakeven from a domestic growth standpoint.
So we did have a strong book-to-bill in the quarter.
But your math is right we're down around 1%-ish in the quarter on organic growth domestically.
But with the question I was answering which may not have been exactly the way it was phrased was on a full year basis.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our third quarter conference call in October.
Deanna? And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you again for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Third Quarter 2011 Internal Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deanna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Deanna.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
The result that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investors Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon's performance was solid in the third quarter.
Our focus on execution drove strong margins and cash flow.
Our new awards resulted in a book to bill of 1.12 and reflects good customer demand for our products.
Execution was strong across all our businesses.
Our bookings were driven in part by 13 programs over $100 million each primarily driven by Missile Systems which had over 50% of these contract awards.
I want to point out that this was the second highest quarter in bookings ever for our Missile business.
In dollar terms these 13 awards represent more than 40% of our $6.9 billion for the quarter.
The remaining 60% of orders was comprised of hundreds of programs averaging under $5 million each.
The take away for us is that our customers continue to invest in our affordable and innovative solutions that Raytheon has to offer.
It's also notable during the quarter we received just under $1.3 billion of international orders.
We continue to see strong demand globally for our technologies and products.
Our Classified business remains an area of strength as well with sales increasing by 10% in the quarter the vast majority of which was organic.
As we all know the overall budget environment remains fluid.
Once again we're operating under a continuing resolution which is reflected in our updated guidance.
Dave will provide some color around this in his remarks.
Given the economic environment we're focusing on the things we can control.
We continue to work closely with our customers to reduce costs shorten time lines and improve efficiency.
Our efforts to streamline the supply chain reduce overhead and optimize our facility utilization are moving forward and we are seeing continued improvements.
Given today's global threat environment we believe defense will continue to be a high priority in our government's future spending plans.
As such I want to take a few minutes today to highlight some of the recent key technology wins and there's a lot of exciting work that we're doing to support our customers which will drive future growth.
Raytheon BBN received an order or orders from the U.S.
Army for a variant of the Boomerang shooter detection system which pinpoints incoming small arms fires from the shooters helping to protect our troops.
IDS was awarded a contract for developing an integrated GPS-based system for navy surface ships and subsurface platforms which uses open architecture net-centric approach to allow hosting the positioning navigation and timing data in a common computing environment thus enhancing the ship's operability with onboard systems.
While at the same time SAS received a contract from the Air Force Research Laboratory for the development of advanced high anti-jam GPS situational awareness sensors for applications on small weapons and UAV systems.
And just to further emphasize our cutting-edge technology and innovative solutions continue to be well aligned with our customers' evolving requirements particularly in the areas of air and missile defense ISR EW Air Traffic Management Homeland Security and training.
Let me sum up by saying we had a solid quarter in a challenging environment.
Our strategies and our efforts to take out costs are reflected in our results and we will continue to deliver value for our customers and our shareholders.
All of this is made possible by the dedication hard work and world-class talent of the Raytheon team.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with third quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the webslides that we issued earlier this morning.
If everyone could please move to Page 3.
As Bill noted we performed well in the third quarter.
Our continued focus on performance and execution across the company drove margins EPS and operating cash flow results during the quarter.
Our total company bookings for the quarter was $6.9 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.12.
Our adjusted EPS which excludes the FAS/CAS pension adjustment and a favorable tax settlement was $1.39 up 3% driven by capital deployment actions as well as operational improvements.
Sales were $6.1 billion in the quarter about $100 million below our guidance and reflects the challenging environment.
Adjusted operating margins were up 20 basis points to 13%.
We delivered strong operating cash flow from continuing operations of $859 million which is better than expected driven primarily by working capital.
I'll address updates to our 2011 guidance in just a few minutes.
During the quarter the company repurchased 7.6 million shares of common stock for $312 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 20.1 million shares for $937 million.
And as we announced last month the company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2 billion of the company's outstanding common stock.
It's also worth highlighting that on October 17 Moody's upgraded our long-term senior unsecured credit rating to A3 reflecting the company's strong financial position.
Turning now to Page 4 let me start by providing some detail on our third quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $6.9 billion and on a year-to-date basis were $19.4 billion.
Taken together in the last 2 quarters we have seen solid bookings on both a domestic and international basis.
Notable bookings in the third quarter included $584 million of missiles for the production of AMRAAM for the U.S.
Air Force and international customers $329 million for the development of Standard Missile-3 for the Missile Defense Agency and $221 million for production of Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles for the U.S.
Navy and international customers.
SAS and IIS booked $468 million and $313 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
NCS booked $187 million for the production of Sentinel radars spares and services for the U.S.
Army and international customers.
IDS booked $142 million for the production of airborne low-frequency sonar systems and spares for the U.S.
Navy and $93 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile capability for an international customer.
And Technical Services booked $256 million for domestic training and $67 million for foreign training programs.
Backlog at the end of the third quarter was $35 billion an increase of approximately $400 million over year end 2010.
So if you'd now move to Page 5.
Sales were $6.1 billion slightly below our previous expectations due to the timing of program awards as well as our cost-reduction efforts.
Comparing sales by business to last year's third quarter IDS had net sales of $1.2 billion.
The change in IDS was primarily due to lower volume on international Patriot and the Zumwalt program as a result of the revised funding profile which I spoke about on prior calls.
It's also worth noting that the 30-day formal notification for Saudi Patriot was submitted to Congress on October 19.
We expect to receive approval our approval letter from the State Department after the 30-day clock expires.
IIS had third quarter 2011 net sales of $760 million compared to $735 million in the third quarter of 2010 primarily driven by higher sales on classified programs.
Missile Systems had net sales of $1.4 billion in line with the same period a year ago.
NCS had net sales of $1.1 billion.
The change in net sales is primarily due to ground-based sensor programs for the U.S.
Army which are nearing completion.
Space and Airborne Systems had net sales of $1.3 billion in the quarter up 5% primarily driven by growth on intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance programs as well as sales related to Raytheon Applied Signal Technology.
The integration of Applied Signal Technology is going well and their programs and results are tracking to our objectives.
And Technical Services had net sales of $817 million the 6% change was primarily due to lower sales on programs that are nearing completion including a DTRA program and a TSA program.
Moving ahead to Page 6 we were pleased by our overall company margin performance.
Our adjusted margin was 13% up 20 basis points.
On a year-to-date basis our adjusted margin was 12.7% also up 20 basis points over the comparable period in 2010.
The strength of our margins reflects the benefits of our broad portfolio of programs both domestic and international as well as our focus on executing cost reductions and efficiencies.
So looking at margins by business IDS Missiles NCS and Technical Services margins were up in the quarter compared with the same period last year the result of solid operating performance.
IIS margins were essentially in line with prior year's Q3.
Now at SAS the change in margins was in part due to acquisition and integration-related costs which had an impact of approximately 60 basis points in the quarter and a $14 million or 110 basis points -- a $14 million charge or 110 basis points related to a contract modification.
You may also remember that last year's third quarter was exceptionally strong for SAS from an overall performance standpoint.
Turning now to Page 7.
Third quarter 2011 adjusted EPS was $1.39.
The increase was driven by program performance and capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases and on the year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $4.17 up 6% from the same period last year.
If you'd now turn to Page 8.
I'd like to comment on our current guidance for the year.
We now see sales for the year in the range of $25 billion to $25.3 billion.
Broadly speaking the revised outlook reflects the current environment that the industry is facing.
More specifically there have been delays in new program starts and funding.
We expect this to be the case for the balance of the year driven by the CR from a domestic standpoint.
Further impacting the near-term sales outlook is the timing of international awards and our cost-reduction initiatives.
As we've done in prior years during the third quarter we updated our actuarial estimates related to our pension plans.
As a result of the update FAS/CAS pension expense for the year decreased by $27 million from $365 million to $338 million.
We have raised the lower end narrowing our adjusted EPS outlook to be between $5.55 and $5.65.
We increased our 2011 guidance for GAAP EPS to be between $4.94 and $5.04 which reflects the updated full year FAS/CAS pension expense and a slightly higher-than-expected tax settlement.
Our current operating cash flow outlook for the full year of $2.1 billion to $2.3 billion remains on track.
Overall our updated outlook for 2011 reflects our ability to drive performance through operational improvements and capital deployment actions.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've reflected the change in our guidance by business.
The increase in margin reflects the expected additional benefits of productivity and efficiency initiatives.
Overall we're pleased with our operational performance and the results we've delivered while at the same time passing along cost savings to our customers.
Now typically we provide initial guidance for next year on our third quarter call.
But given the environment the continuing resolution as well as the outcome from the super committee's recommendations which we expect to see on November 23 it wouldn't be prudent to provide 2012 guidance at this time.
As we look ahead there are a range of possible outcomes from an industry perspective.
With that said we believe Raytheon is well positioned given our diverse portfolio international content strong performance bookings efficiency results and a solid financial foundation.
We've had a strong book to bill for the last 2 quarters at an average of 1.16.
We are taking out costs -- we are taking costs out of the business and we've seen the results in our operating margins.
And again our broad portfolio of technologies and products are well aligned with customer priorities both domestically and internationally.
As we've done in the past we intend to provide detailed 2012 guidance on our fourth quarter earnings call in January.
So if you would please move to Page 10 we've provided a FAS/CAS pension adjustment matrix for 2012 as we've done in prior years.
And just to be clear the discount rate and the actual asset returns won't be known until we close out 2011.
Before we open it up for Q&amp;A let me summarize.
We saw solid performance in the third quarter and in many areas exceeded the guidance we provided back in July.
We had strong bookings strong margins and better-than-expected operating cash flow.
Our results reflect the actions we've taken to continue to deliver solid performance notwithstanding the current economic environment.
Looking ahead we remain laser-focused on delivering best value for our customers.
This includes making sure the company continues to be proactive and have the right cost structure to operate effectively and efficiently in a dynamic and evolving marketplace.
We're well positioned to address the challenges in our industry and deliver affordable innovative solutions that meet the needs of our customers while also creating value for our shareholders.
So with that Bill and I will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from the line of Heidi Wood Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bill various defense contractors have taken a range of strategies to kind of offset the defense budget down cycles focusing on international or healthcare IT.
It seems like you're spending more and more time working on Homeland Security.
Can you talk to us a little bit about how you're differentiating your strategy on that and when you're going to start to see more and more effects of the efforts you're putting in there? Yes Heidi it's a great question.
I'd like to just go back and say we've got a solid foundation in air and missile defense and in ISR EW and if you look at cyber and the other areas we're working on.
For us they really provide us the foundation for Homeland Security.
And when you look at it it really goes into Border Security and it really goes into the command-and-control that some nations need to be able to integrate their air picture or their ground picture into providing what I call high-fidelity information to them so they can make decisions.
So for us the Homeland or Border Security really brings together all the aspects of the company and it's really a natural.
And you know our portfolio so you can imagine how it all comes together.
So for us we've got international C2 opportunities that we expect to see in either Q4 or Q1.
We've got some international sensing programs that should be coming in that will tie all that together.
And I guess the way I'd look at it is as you look at the U.S.
pulling out of forward -- our forward presence one of the things everybody wants to know is what's going on on the borders.
And we believe our company has all the tools to be able to do that.
From a bookings point of view we expect to be around $750 million $800 million this year and we expect sales to be between $750 million and $800 million in the same range both of those are increases over the prior year.
So we see growth if that helps.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up question Bill is that and I unfortunately burdened the 2 executives yesterday with this question so you weren't alone in this one but the Pentagon is engaging in this should cost exercise which is -- appears to be going not just to the primes but also to the suppliers and of course you have industry-leading margins.
Doesn't this exercise imply lower margins lower revenues and in fact possible contract delays because this government analysis is going to create some disagreement and thus delays in contracting? I guess I don't look at it that way Heidi.
I view the kind of programs we have if you take AMRAAM we're in our 25th or 26th year.
And every year we're asked to deliver AMRAAMs.
We've grown them from model A to model D.
And if you look at it the government looks to us to give them more increased capability and to be able to do that at a lower price.
And so we kind of get up every day and have to do that and it's part of our D&amp;A culture.
And as Dave talked about our margins went up because we're taking costs out of the business.
And you know what when we propose it next time those proposals will reflect that lower cost.
So that's good for our customers and we don't have a hang-up with it.
I mean our company's D&amp;A is being competitive in doing what we do.
So that's I guess why I don't have any concern about it.
And the next question will come from the line of Carter Copeland Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First off Dave on the margins for -- that are implied in the fourth quarter I'm sure you're prepared to answer this one.
But in TS we're obviously implying a bit of a deterioration and in IIS you're implying about 9% it looks like given the guidance and in NCS about 13% which is running below where you've been the first 3 quarters of the year.
Can you just give us some color on what's happening in those 3 segments in terms of profitability in the fourth quarter? Yes.
So with respect to TS both the third quarter and year-to-date was above guidance as we generated strong performance on some of the contracts that are reaching the end of life basically.
Q4 there is a mix change from efforts on lower margin work and we also expect a lower throughput in our Customized Engineering &amp; Depot Services business which is a higher margin business.
We did raise the margin outlook for the year 60 to 90 basis points and that as you've noted is driven by the year-to-date performance.
So you asked about -- I'm sorry the other 2 businesses were IIS...
Research Division</strong> IIS and NCS.
Right.
So there's nothing too remarkable going on with respect to IIS.
They've performed well.
As you know early in the year a letter of credit was drawn by the UKBA and that impacted the year-to-date results.
Q4 does include sales on some higher margin programs and we have a lot of confidence in that business just given the way they've delivered throughout the year.
On the last business SAS.
I'm sorry NCS...
Research Division</strong> NCS yes.
NCS.
For both the third quarter and year-to-date we've exceeded our expectations.
There are some mix changes slightly in Q4 which are driven by new starts new program starts on development work and also a ramp down on some longer-standing production programs specifically for the U.S.
Army.
We have raised our full year guidance 30 to 50 basis points and again that's driven by the year-to-date performance and the timing of some cost improvements that's been initiated in that business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up on the pension front.
I wondered if given where we are today if you could tell us a little bit about how you're thinking about pension funding for next year and beyond and how that may have changed given where we are with discount rates.
Right.
So obviously this is forward-looking.
Today the environment for the discount rate would be somewhere in the 5% to 5.25%.
In 2011 from an assumption standpoint we had used 5.75%.
The expected returns long-term expected returns at 8.75% for '11 are expected at this point to be the same for '12.
From an actual return standpoint as of close of business yesterday we were -- our pension assets were running at just about negative 1%.
So we're right around breakeven from that standpoint.
From a funding perspective given sort of those assumptions looking ahead we would see gross funding at about $1.3 billion next year which is up from $1.1 billion this year.
Now obviously neither those numbers '11 or '12 includes any discretionary pension contributions the type that we've done in the past.
The next question will come from the line of Troy Lahr Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know you didn't want to talk about 2012 but in a flat budget environment can you still see Raytheon having some growth next year? It's Bill let me answer this.
If we were to assume the DoD is flat to slightly negative due to inflation we believe that in that case our international backlog opportunities and portfolio and our technology would more than offset this impact if that helps.
That's kind of how we think about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So flat to down you might be flattish I guess you're saying? Or up a skosh.
It's all the timing.
But from our standpoint I think how we look at it is DoD flat to slightly negative including inflation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up can you just update us on what you're thinking about bookings? I think you were previously at $27.5 billion.
Yes.
Right now if you look at it crystal ball would say we're about at $27 billion plus or minus $500 million and we're probably right at the midpoint there.
So it's still strong bookings in this environment.
The next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about I guess if you take the call it $500 million or so of sales that you've pushed out in terms of the year can you characterize that in terms of what our program delays versus maybe cancellations and even in the cost-plus world where you've lowered the cost structure so you're actually getting hit because of the cost-plus nature of those contracts? Okay so Sam that is a good question and we'll add some clarity to that.
So if you think about the outlook coming down $500 million to $600 million about half of that a little more than half of that relates to the timing of awards that we've been talking about on the last quarter or 2.
Around 25% of it relates to the continuing resolution that we now find ourselves in and a little less than 25% relates to the cost-reduction actions again that we've been engaged in throughout the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as we think about and look at that continuing resolution and what may change given your large backlog can you just talk about which businesses are probably the most sensitive to near-term changes in the budget environment where you would call them I guess short-cycle type of businesses where if we see a reduction it immediately affects your business? Yes usually short cycle is lower margin kind of business.
And for us RTSC's margins aren't that bad but they'd be probably more affected than anyone on short cycle.
If you look at Missiles their programs usually have good gestation periods as I call them.
They run 3 to 4 years.
IDS SAS is in that category.
IIS would probably be next to RTSC only because the intelligence community runs on a shorter span cycle and then I would say NCS would be in the middle if that helps.
Because what generally happens is programs that are fungible if you're looking at Fed IT or IT kind of thing so that's where people can really cut first and have an effect.
So that's where I would see part of the pressure coming.
And the next question will come from the line of Rob Spingarn Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions on the segments.
IDS you talked about the lower Patriot or the absence of the -- an international contract there.
But Dave could you walk through -- the margins went up the sales went down wouldn't this have actually reduced margins or was there an award fee or reserve reversal in the Q that helped? No there was no reserve reversal.
What we alluded to with respect to the International Patriot business was just the timing of activity year-over-year.
I would read absolutely nothing into that.
The Patriot business for us is very very strong very very healthy.
We have a very solid pipeline.
We've articulated a multitude of opportunities.
It's simply just timing of activity this quarter versus last year's third quarter for programs that are essentially in production.
From a margin standpoint IDS did perform exceptionally well.
It was driven by a combination of both contract mix domestic and international as well as overall cost-reduction improvements.
So I hope that puts the right frame...
Research Division</strong> Well it does.
And then I would ask you cost reduction is a theme here.
We're seeing a lot of cost takeout across the contracting base not just from you but from peers as well.
I mean how much further can this go? How much headroom do you have? And then the other thing I wanted to ask you about is you talked about the weaker army -- this is in tangent to Sam's question.
The weaker army business you saw on NCS army looks like it's going to get hit the hardest here in the budget.
So how long can -- how much downside do you see across the segments in army so cost takeout and army downside.
Okay.
So Raytheon has strong margins historically and certainly that's the case for 2011 and in particular the third quarter.
We continue to find ways to improve the overall efficiency of the business.
And the byproduct of improving efficiency is improved cost and higher margins and ultimately a more competitive business.
I would suggest that we will continue to find ways to improve the overall efficiency to take costs out of the company whether that's in supply chain in overhead in G&amp;A.
We're approaching NBI differently today than we did in the past so we've become very very efficient on bidding on new programs both competitive and sole source.
So I would say you could expect the cost-reduction improvements that we've made to continue into the foreseeable future.
With respect to the U.S.
Army production program that's something we've been talking about for quite a while.
It's primarily ground-based sensors and products related to ground-based sensors.
This is -- it's not new news.
It's something we had planned on.
It's something the customer had planned on.
NCS is doing a fine job in transitioning that business into a broader portfolio of products focusing on international on Homeland Security on air traffic control.
And we expect NCS to deliver very well for Raytheon as we go forward into '12 and beyond.
And the next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave a quick overview on the bookings.
I was wondering if you also had some good bookings in the quarter.
But if you were to split them out between exports and domestic what was the sort of year-on-year growth or decline in those 2 buckets? Okay.
So from a bookings standpoint in Q3 Bill actually mentioned this earlier we had about $1.3 billion in international bookings and $5.6 billion in domestic bookings.
Overall the bookings increased by about $1 billion.
And that was -- over last year that was I believe and I'll confirm this split about equally relative to both international and domestic.
But I will confirm that for you.
And Dave I would add that we see bookings this year being about 30% international and sales being about 25%.
So that would give you an idea of the mix kind of how we look at where the year will end up just to add a little color there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
As a follow-up related to the exports Bill.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on some of your major targets out there on the export market and whether any of these have been delayed as tends to happen.
There's a lot going on international for us.
And let me kind of take them off my mind here.
We got TPY-2 radars that are both domestic and international.
We expect about $800 million in the radar side of those.
Between I'd say Q4 Q1 I'd say half international have domestic.
We've got Taiwan Patriot that we're expecting to wrap up this year.
That'd be Q4 say $600 million plus or minus $100 million.
We've got Kuwait 2 or a 4 lot depending on what they really want to do so that could be $600 million to $1 billion.
We look at that at first half of fiscal year '12.
We've got Paveways which are continuing to be in demand due to replenishment and so forth.
So we see about $500 million in that late Q4 some in the first half of fiscal year '12.
Our air traffic control radars are about $200 million to $300 million.
We see those in Q4 Q1.
Missiles even though they had a great quarter we're seeing another $600 million to $800 million for them about 1/3 in Q4 and I'd say about 2/3 of that will show up in the first half of next year.
Training about $100 million we see internationally in Q4.
We've got Turkey Patriot.
We expect to hear their decision sometime later this year and that should be awarded say mid in the next year on that program and that will be good sized depending on what they get.
You probably read Oman is looking for ground-based air defense systems about $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
So we're working that.
International C2 we expect to see $400 million or $500 million internationally in Q4 Q1.
And what am I forgetting? Oh and international Border Security kind of radar the $100 million probably fourth quarter this year.
And I think I could keep going but I'd stop there.
The international very strong.
There are delays.
But they're -- I guess the way I look at them I don't like delays but we live with them.
They're not cancellations and that's the way you've got to look at it.
We feel very good about our product line and what we're discussing with our customers and they're buying.
Just pinpointing that time is hard because their schedules are different than ours and of course patience is not a Western virtue.
So we work hard to get them done.
Rob just last thing.
While Bill was talking I was able to just confirm.
It was about 50-50.
The incremental $1 billion is split between international and domestic on about a 50-50 basis.
And the next question will come from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you touch a little bit on cash flow? You maintained your guidance but I think in the quarter you came in a couple hundred million ahead of your expectation.
Obviously that would still put you in your guidance range but could you maybe talk if you're trending towards the high end of that? Yes.
I think that at this stage again we give obviously bookends cashes the toughest thing to nail from a point estimate standpoint.
If you think about the mid-range to high-end I think you're more in line than thinking about it at the lower end of the range.
That's where I would suggest if you're trying to figure out where we're going to close out the year.
That's what I'm seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're still on track for about $700 million in cash taxes for the year? Slightly under that's right slightly under.
Now we did receive that tax refund you'll recall of about $100 million.
So it's slightly under $600 million.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up just maybe a little bit nitpicky but if I take your segment expectations and take those and add them up to what it means for an EPS number I come in well above what your EPS guidance is using all the other assumptions.
What is the plug? Is that conservatism or what am I missing? Well no.
I think if you stand back from this there's a range on each one of the segments.
And then you have to look at what goes on from an intercompany standpoint what gets eliminated.
So the math does work.
I don't think you're missing anything.
From a big picture standpoint as we took down the expectation on sales $500 million or $600 million that impacted us by about $0.10 or $0.12 and that was offset by the margin improvements that we spoke about a little bit earlier today.
We've tightened up the range on the share count from a high end of $3.59 to a high end of $3.54.
And we had a little bit of a change from a tax rate standpoint because the assumptions on PBT from a taxable income perspective is slightly higher than what we had seen earlier in the year.
But taken all together the math does work if you add up the pieces.
And the next question will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So if I take the numbers you've given us so you've taken the bookings target down $500 million to 27% you're still 30% international.
By my math that assumes something like $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter.
It doesn't look like you've gotten a whole lot here.
Is that in jeopardy that some of that stuff could slip just because it looks like it's a pretty big number? Yes.
Cai that's why I was kind of giving you Q4 and Q1.
You of anyone on the call knows the dates on how international happens.
And I wish I could tell you it's going to happen on December 12.
You can't predict those that well so you try and put them in a range.
And so for us we put them in a range that we think they'll be Q4 but they could be the first part of Q1 and that's not so bad.
The other part is when you look at our bookings of $27 billion to be within $500 million of that at this point in time with everything going on in the world I don't think it's that bad.
And the point is you always know my frustration on the fact that they don't happen.
But we size our business.
We do all our workforce planning across the company so that we can as I call it win anywhere perform anywhere and ship anywhere.
And we do that so that we can handle these ebbs and flows and that you don't see wild swings in our workforce.
And it's because we do this work and we're pretty good at the planning aspect.
But there is a chance that that could move.
But it's not moving 12 months if that...
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Alternatively if you look at kind of what your numbers seem to imply for domestic bookings it looks like it's a number like 4.9 which would be maybe a book to bill of 0.85 0.87 in the final quarter.
Relative to history that looks a little bit conservative.
I don't know in today's environment maybe it's not.
Maybe you could give us some color in terms of is that a...
Yes.
I think what's going on there Cai from our standpoint is that if you go to Washington and you talk to people November is when the CR is supposed to end.
I guess in our planning we're kind of thinking it's going to continue for the year.
That's back to the question if you look at DoD being flat to negative because of inflation and that's kind of how we're thinking of it and we're planning it.
You know us there's the way I always call it A B and C you look at best case you look at worst case and you look at most likely and we plan on most likely.
And that's the way we size our business and we run our business and I think it's reflected in our margins and our results that we're pretty good at pegging it.
We're probably a little bit more conservative on the CR than some might be.
But that's -- we just went through the longest one in history going to May and I want us to be pragmatic about it and that's how we've done it.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've done an extraordinary job of kind of delivering spectacularly good profitability with...
Cai would you repeat that again? I kind of missed it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Very good profitability despite the sales missing.
I mean it kind of looks here like we might see another slip.
Is there a point at which it becomes more difficult to deliver that excellent profitably if you kind of get detrimental sales? I would tell you it gets harder but it's not foreign to what we do.
If you were here and part of the team everyone including the functions here at corporate and out in the businesses everybody knows that our customers are being asked to do more with no more.
And we take that challenge very seriously and there's great alignment on it.
It's hard.
I wish it wasn't as difficult on everybody but that's the condition we're in.
And from at least everyone in Raytheon I've seen no objections to taking on this task.
In fact everybody takes great delight in finding ways to do it better.
And Six Sigma really drives our results around here.
It's not a buzzword it's not a cliché it's how we do things.
And that's I think on this call people have asked me about margins now for 8 or 9 years and we continue to find ways to improve.
And we're not going to give up on that if that helps.
And the next question will come from the line of Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to be able to get a little bit more sense from you on the environment.
Because as we look at the impact of the CR and this continues to go on do you see us in a situation where the weaker revenues we're seeing at Raytheon and other -- basically at all the defense companies that this becomes a new reality that we're just sort of plugging away at this tough situation in Washington? Or is it something that you would expect pent-up demand to occur as we get a year or so down the road and have to basically address the issues that we've had working through a very tough decision-making environment in DC? Yes I think from my standpoint if I look at it -- I'll just give you my perspective personal perspective that we're going to be coming out of Iraq.
Afghanistan tough situation.
We'll continue to work hard there but we'll come out of Afghanistan.
When you do that the troops will come back much needed rest.
But we're going to have to resize regroup and be ready for the next mission.
And I think the next mission is that as a country we're going to have smaller forces that have to operate globally on a moment's notice.
They're going to have to have different tools and technologies to help them bridge that gap.
We're going to have to recapitalize what we've worn-out because we've never seen an up-tempo like this for this long.
And why I feel so strong about the things we're working on I mean I don't get to always talk about our technology programs but some of our wins I didn't touch base on are we're working on sense and warm -- warn.
How do we handle the shoot-and-scoot kind of threat using asymmetric tactics? We've got that going on in one business program that we've won there.
We've got new advanced thermal imagers that we're looking at that are uncooled that can do more lighter weight less energy consumption.
We're looking at predictive understanding the future technologies.
We're looking at advanced nonlethal weapons that are solid-state quantum computing.
I didn't get to talk about classified but for us our classified is running about 16% of sales year-to-date.
We expect growth year-over-year of about 10%.
So as we look at our portfolio we think the things we're doing are going to be in demand as we resize regroup and take on the future.
I know that's a long answer but I think your premise is a good one.
Right now we're consumed with getting our budget in order or our house in order as a country and once we do that then people are going to work on okay what is this new environment that we're in and how do we make sure that we're one of the most capable nations in the world? I don't think that'll be lost in national security.
It's always been a priority for the United States.
So I'm hopeful.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And against this backdrop one of the things you've clearly done is pushing cyber as a growth opportunity.
You've done a number of acquisitions there.
When you look forward now do you have what you need there? Or are you still seeing this as an area that you would push harder on in terms of the use of cash? I'd probably continue to push harder.
I believe that threat isn't constant that this is a threat that travels at the speed of light.
It's one click and the threat morphs and you have to work on it from both ends.
And that's why we continue to do that.
And if you look at it you not only have to look at it from what I'd call a DoD or intelligence point of view but the commercial world is realizing the exposures that they have.
So this is the new reality and it's getting a lot of attention.
I'm just glad we've got a 4- or 5-year head start on this one because we saw this one coming as you know.
And the next question will come from the line of George Shapiro Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> Bill I might have missed it but did you give how much international sales grew this quarter versus last year? I don't know that I gave that number.
If you look at it -- let me get the number for you here.
Our international sales are -- year-to-date are about 25% of our total sales.
LLC</strong> So how much were they up [ph] in the quarter? George why don't I take that question.
On a year-to-date -- in the quarter international sales were down about $40 million on about 1.5 billion that equates to about 3%.
And that was driven by a number of different things we talked about earlier.
We do expect it to rebound in the fourth quarter and being in the mid- to high-single digits as we close out the year.
And what will happen here is the Saudi program will start to take off because as Dave pointed out we're in congressional notification.
Expect that to happen in the next 30 days and then it'll take off.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the other one probably more for you Dave.
In the last 2 quarters you've lowered the high end of the sales guidance by about $1 billion about 4%.
My question is while others of -- companies have lowered their sales guidance as well yours seems to be somewhat more than others.
And I was just wondering if you thought about why or had any reasons for why that might be happening.
No.
It's a fair question and I can talk about Raytheon in particular.
I'll use the words that Bill spoke about earlier.
We have been seeing program awards moving to the right.
It's not a matter of losing new programs.
This has happened both on a -- from a domestic standpoint as well as to some extent from an international standpoint sort of in line with your first comment.
We also have focused a lot of our attention on cost reductions.
And we've been talking about that for a while now.
And that obviously impacts our cost-type contracts.
We also began to see as we moved into the second half of the year our customers thinking through the timing of how programs will be let sort of in line with the first comment I made.
What I'd like to focus your attention on with all of that said is the bookings profile.
If you look at Q2 and Q3 together we had a book to bill of about 1.16 and I understand the arithmetic.
The sales are a little bit down.
But even with that said it's a very strong book-to-bill ratio.
As Bill spoke to just a few minutes ago with someone else with Cai we see the book to bill being -- we have a range of about 1.05 to the high end of about 1.1 as we close out the year.
So I think your observation may be correct.
But with that said the bookings continue to be strong.
And I think the bookings and the backlog are the best indicator of how the company looks over the longer term.
George it's Bill.
I would add that the CR has a bigger effect on us for this taking it down that when we looked at sales before we kind of believed what are hearing that people were going to enact the budgets put them in place.
And I think now we're probably really pragmatic maybe a little conservative in the sense that we think the CR will continue and we want to reflect that.
And that's the way I'd really answer it.
There's -- from our standpoint I just think it's going to be difficult to get things done and you're getting our best estimate and that reflects the CR continuing.
And the next question will come from the line of Noah Poponak Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on I think 2 questions ago that the new norm versus temporary situation debate.
And I guess what I struggle with is we've had most defense companies now miss the top line in the quarter and reduce the full year outlook and attribute it to timing and delays.
And as we all try to figure out the forward timing and delays has an implication that that situation is going to reverse itself and get better sooner than later.
But if we just look at the defense budget investment is down 3% in the base in '11 and we're now seeing pretty much every defense company's revenues down about the same amount.
And then when we look at where the '12 and '13 numbers are likely to shake out base investment looks pretty similar.
So that would tell you you should just plug in these kind of low single-digit declines for revenue for the next few years whereas delays and timing would tell you to do something a lot different.
So how do we get our arms around which it is? And why shouldn't we just look at the defense budget? I think depending on the company you can look at the budget.
I think for us the top line's not the indicator.
For us it's the granular detail that's within the budget.
And if you look at and slice it right you get both hot spots and cold spots.
And when you look at the big programs they're going to be under a lot of scrutiny and a lot of attention.
And so from that standpoint you really got to look at each company and their portfolio and what's at risk going out in the budget environment.
But clearly to give you my impression there are delays.
And what it is is that our customers are trying to figure out and do their budget planning.
And right now it's a movable stake in the ground.
And it's movable because they're trying to figure out do they plan to a 10% cut a 5% cut? Do they plan to whatever? And when you're doing all this planning you're not doing your day job.
And it's really hard to get that done.
And so from our standpoint the way I look at it it's like in a business you need a budget.
You need to be able to plan for something.
Once you have that you set your strategies around it.
And what we see right now because of the uncertainty with the super committee and the budget process for the country it's hard for our customer who gets their funding in that regard.
But also when you look at it about 2/3 of our funding comes from DoD.
The balance is international it's agencies and so forth.
So the company itself has changed and morphed over time and will continue to do that.
So it's really different depending on the company.
It depends on your fixed-price cost-plus basis.
For us always think of us as 60% or 55% fixed price versus cost plus.
Other companies are the other way around.
They might be 60-40.
So it really depends on each company as we do that.
But my bottom line it doesn't feel like cancellations.
It does still feel like delays.
Does that help? I mean it's really hard to pinpoint.
But I would tell you that we don't see programs disappearing.
And I think that's the important part that I'd probably have a different concern and I'd talk to you differently if I thought -- saw things just evaporating.
We don't see that.
Research Division</strong> No I mean that makes sense and it's helpful.
I mean I guess it just takes it back to I think George's question which is that on paper it makes a lot of sense to think you guys would outgrow your peers given the international footprint the focus on cyber intel the upgrade of existing versus make of new but the actual bookings and growth numbers have been very similar to others for several quarters in a row.
But I guess you're saying some delays in international in particular and the impact from the CR being disproportionate are probably the explanation for that and still feel like the forward for you is above average.
Yes.
I feel the forward is there.
I think the other thing I would say is if you look -- I'm trying to go from memory that we were 1.2 in the second quarter 1.12 this quarter.
And so if you look at it I think at the beginning of the year I had made the comment that I thought our bookings would pick up near the last half of the year.
We've seen that with -- we look at Q4 we've got a big quarter in front of us.
And when you look at this year with the budget process and everything going on it feels a little bit like Q4 Q1-ish kind of thing.
But it's not Q4 and Q3 of next year it's within a short window so that's why we feel positive about what we see and there's just a multiplicity of programs that we have going.
That's one of the strengths.
And what was a little bit unusual this quarter is to have 13 pretty good-sized programs over $100 million.
But those should've happened earlier in the year.
And that's the way to think about it.
Okay.
We're going to have to leave it there.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter conference call in January.
Deanna? And ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deanna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Deanna.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today on our fourth quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks with Bill -- by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon delivered solid operating results in 2011.
Looking back at the year I see a company that capitalized on global market opportunities and also successfully managed the challenges of an evolving economic environment.
Our margins earnings and cash flow were all better than expected and bookings and backlog were strong.
In this environment we focused on the things we could control and what we do best.
We executed our strategy.
We continued to implement efficiencies across the businesses lowering our cost.
We provided more affordable innovative solutions to our customers.
And this ultimately allowed us to deliver solid returns for our shareholders.
A bright spot and a key driver of our bookings strength was the international business which represented 29% of the total company's bookings for the year.
A couple of highlights included 2 large awards in the fourth quarter.
The United Arab Emirates ordered 2 TPY-2 radars which are the world's most advanced forward-looking mobile radars and a key-sensing component of the THAAD missile defense system.
This represents the first international sale for this product.
The other highlight was Taiwan's order for additional 3 Patriot fire units.
I mentioned some of the larger ones but there are also hundreds of smaller bookings across a number of product lines and the 81 countries where we do business.
This drove the international backlog to 37% of our total backlog and demonstrates the alignment of our advanced technologies with the evolving needs of our global customers.
It also points to continued success of our international strategy.
On the domestic front we started off the year under a continuing resolution.
And even after the budget was signed in mid-April the funding was slow to start up.
Coupled with this we finished the year again under a CR through December 22.
With all this in mind we're encouraged by the fact that Congress avoided another extended continuing resolution and moved forward on the fiscal year '12 defense budget.
The outcome contained few if any surprises.
I'm proud of Raytheon's team's performance and our ability to deliver in this environment.
We expect the fiscal '13 budget shortly.
We expect some changes.
In this environment we're focused on the right areas and have a strong portfolio in electronic warfare ISR cyber and missile defense which are priority areas for our domestic and international customers.
Regardless of any external uncertainty the Raytheon team will remain focused on what we do best: delivering innovative products while reducing our cost and operating with improved speed and agility.
We remain committed to delivering the best value for our customers and our shareholders.
Our company remains strong and we're well positioned for the future with a proven strategy and solid financial foundation.
I'd like to take a minute to highlight a couple of the achievements of last year.
In recognition for our development of top leaders Raytheon was named the FORTUNE's 2011 North America Top Companies for Leaders list for the second consecutive year.
Further we finished 2011 with the best environmental health and safety performance in the company's history.
Our safety performance is world class and industry leading and our sustainability program continues to be recognized.
Before concluding you've heard me talk in the past about our company-wide integrated enterprise platform and common processes and systems that span all our major functions: finance supply chain contracts human resources as well as manufacturing and engineering.
This has been a multiyear strategy with over 85% of our business transactions supply spend and manufacturing volume now supported by our integrated enterprise platforms.
We also achieved key milestones for our engineering common Product Data Management PDM and our Manufacturing Requirements Planning MRP systems.
PDM for example is being deployed across the company to enable us to manage share and use product data more effectively.
Having these platforms helped drive our cost-efficiency efforts the results of which are reflected in our performance.
I want to thank the Raytheon team for their hard work dedication and focus on customer success that makes our solid results possible for the ongoing commitment to our customers our company and our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Dave Okay thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
I have a few opening remarks starting with fourth quarter and full year results then I'll discuss our outlook for 2012.
And after that Bill and I will open up the call for questions.
So during my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning which are posted on our website.
Okay if everyone could please move to Page 3.
Strong operational performance including cost-reduction efforts across the company drove our margin EPS and operating cash flow results during the quarter.
Our fourth quarter adjusted EPS of $1.74 was up 12% and for the full year was $5.90 up 7% primarily the result of operational improvements and capital deployment actions.
We also generated strong operating cash flow of $1.3 billion for the quarter and $2.2 billion for the year after making a fourth quarter $750 million discretionary contribution to our pension plans.
Additionally during the fourth quarter the company repurchased 7 million shares of common stock for $313 million bringing the full year 2011 repurchases to 27.1 million shares for about $1.3 billion.
As we've previously disclosed in the fourth quarter 2011 the company issued $1 billion in long-term debt.
The company ended the year with a strong balance sheet and net debt of just over $600 million.
I'll talk to our strong bookings particularly in the fourth quarter in just a moment.
And finally during the quarter we announced that we had acquired 2 companies Pikewerks Corporation and Henggeler Computer Consultants further extending our capability to serve the cybersecurity enterprise architecture and systems engineering needs of our customers in the intelligence community as well as in the Department of Defense.
Both companies have become part of our Intelligence and Information Systems business.
These acquisitions are on top of the 2 we completed earlier in the year Applied Signal Technology which is now part of our Space and Airborne Systems business and Ktech which is now part of our Missiles business.
All are performing well.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me take you through some of the details of our fourth quarter and full year results.
We had strong bookings of $7.1 billion in the quarter and $26.6 billion for the full year resulting in a backlog of $35.3 billion and a book to bill of 1.11 in the quarter and 1.07 for the year.
33% of our bookings during the quarter and 29% of our total bookings for the year were from international customers.
And also of note 3 of our businesses Integrated Defense Systems Space and Airborne Systems and Technical Services each had record bookings for the full year of 2011.
Notable bookings in the fourth quarter included just over $1 billion at IDS for TPY-2 radar contracts for the UAE Missile Defense Agency and U.S.
Army $560 million to provide advanced air and missile defense capability for Taiwan $243 million on the Zumwalt-class destroyer program for the U.S.
Navy and $177 million to provide consolidated logistic support for the MDA.
Missile Systems booked $383 million for the development of Standard Missile-3 for the Missile Defense Agency $131 million for the production of Paveway for international customers and $128 million for the production of evolved Seasparrow missiles for the U.S.
Navy and international customers.
SAS booked $212 million for the production of AESA radars for the U.S.
Navy.
And IIS and SAS booked $433 million and $177 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Backlog for the year increased a little better than $750 million over year end 2012.
Turning now to Page 5.
Fourth quarter sales came in at $6.4 billion.
Comparing to our guidance sales came in slightly below the low end primarily due to the company's ongoing cost-reduction efforts.
When comparing the prior year it's important to note that there were 5 fewer workdays in the 2011 fourth quarter.
Our average 2011 sales per workday was approximately $100 million.
Looking at the businesses Integrated Defense Systems net sales were $1.3 billion in the quarter.
The change was primarily due to lower sales on Zumwalt and on an international Patriot program.
As many of you are aware during the quarter IDS received U.S.
Congressional and State Department approvals on a $1.7 billion direct commercial contract to upgrade the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's Patriot Systems to the latest Configuration-3.
Intelligence and Information Systems net sales were $753 million in the quarter driven by lower sales on domestic programs which were impacted by the continuing resolution.
Missile Systems net sales were $1.5 billion in the quarter.
The change was driven by the Rolling Airframe Missile and SM-2 programs.
At Network Centric Systems net sales were $1.1 billion in the quarter.
The change in net sales was primarily due to U.S.
Army programs which are nearing completion.
Space and Airborne Systems had net sales of $1.3 billion in the quarter up 3% driven by sales related to Raytheon Applied Signal Technology.
Technical Services had fourth quarter 2011 net sales of $886 million.
The change was primarily due to the lower sales on programs nearing completion including a DTRA program and a TSA program.
If you'd move ahead to Page 6.
We delivered strong operational performance and executed well on our cost-reduction initiatives both in the quarter and for the full year.
Our adjusted operating margin was up 220 basis points in Q4 and up 70 basis points for the full year.
Each business had solid performance with year-over-year margin expansion.
There were a couple of items that I do want to point out that did have a positive impact on 2 of our businesses.
At IIS we had a $9 million recovery of an insurance claim; and at Missiles we had a $21 million favorable contractual resolution.
When you compare our fourth quarter margins to our prior guidance all of our businesses performed better than the high end of the range that we had provided in October.
We clearly saw meaningful improvements from our productivity efforts.
As I've been saying all year we're focused on cost control and productivity improvements which will ultimately benefit our shareholders and our customers.
Just to put some color on this our efforts on efficiency improvements cover the full spectrum of our cost structure.
We are continuing to drive savings across the supply chain.
We are streamlining our factory operations improving our direct to indirect ratio and driving down overhead costs.
The positive swing in margins reflects these efforts.
Now let me just briefly describe our supply chain initiatives.
The objective is to deliver cost savings improve efficiencies and quality while building stronger longer-lasting strategic relationships with our supplier partners.
By way of example our centralized strategic sourcing effort allows us to identify key suppliers with the right capabilities and capacity that meet our requirements.
As a result we've taken our supply base from approximately 30 000 several years ago to about 12 000 today even as we increased our total spend on supply chain in line with the company's growth.
We are seeing real value and cost efficiencies.
We're leveraging our resources more effectively with a smaller more strategic group of suppliers that drive the quality and product affordability that our customers expect from Raytheon.
In large part we're in a position to effectively implement these types of enterprise-wide productivity programs as a result of the strategic investments in our Information Technology area.
As Bill just mentioned we're in the final stages of a company-wide MRP platform implementation allowing us to improve visibility into our supply chain across the company and better respond to market conditions and customer requirements.
Additionally we're moving forward with an enterprise-wide product data management system which will allow us to seamlessly collaborate on product design across the company with our suppliers while integrating with our MRP system for realtime resource planning.
These are significant competitive discriminators and will become increasingly important going forward.
If you'd move to Pages 7 and 8.
You'll see both the fourth quarter and full year adjusted earnings per share.
In the fourth quarter 2011 our adjusted EPS was $1.74 up 12% and for the full year was $5.90 versus $5.51 in 2010 an increase of 7%.
The increase for both periods was driven by operational improvements and capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases.
The company generated stronger-than-expected operating cash flow of $2.2 billion in 2011 after the discretionary $750 million cash contribution to our pension plans.
This was the result of our continued focus on working capital management and customer advances.
Turning now to Page 9.
In the first quarter of 2012 we sold the remaining operating assets of RAAS Raytheon's residual turbo-prop commuter aircraft portfolio at a slight gain.
And all its operations have ceased.
And there are no contingent obligations.
The results from RAAS are required to be reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods including our -- including prior periods beginning in the first quarter of 2012.
We provided historical data for this reclassification in the attachments that accompany the press release to help you better understand the impact to our historical results.
This completes the sale and closeout process of our 515-plane portfolio that we began a number of years ago.
Moving on to our 2012 guidance.
We see sales in the range of between $24.5 billion and $25 billion.
As for pension we now see that FAS/CAS Adjustment at $284 million which is more favorable than we assumed on the third quarter earnings call primarily due to the $750 million discretionary cash contribution we made in the fourth quarter.
In addition to the discretionary contribution our 2012 FAS/CAS Adjustment was also impacted by the discount rate environment and our asset returns in 2011 which were slightly negative for the year.
Our end-of-year discount rate was 5%.
We expect net interest expense to be between $190 million and $200 million which is higher than 2011 due to the new debt that we issued in the fourth quarter.
We see our average diluted shares outstanding to be between $334 million and $340 million on a full year basis.
As for our effective tax rate we see this coming in at approximately 32%.
In 2011 our effective tax rate was 29.5%.
If you adjust for the 2011 third quarter tax-related benefit and the R&amp;D credit 2011 would've been approximately 32.5%.
Also and just to be clear in the past we've included the R&amp;D tax credit in our guidance.
However for planning purposes we've not included the possible extension of the R&amp;D tax credit in our 2012 guidance.
If the legislation passes it would favorably impact the effective tax rate by about 100 basis points and is worth about $0.07 in EPS.
In 2012 we expect EPS to be in the range of $4.90 to $5.05.
We see our adjusted EPS to be in the range of $5.45 to $5.60.
Our operating cash flow guidance is expected to be between $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion which is down slightly from 2011.
However it's important to note that we received the cash advance at the end of 2011 which is expected to liquidate as we move through 2012.
And we also made a sizable discretionary pension contribution in 2011 which is not anticipated for 2012.
When you normalize for these items cash flow decreases slightly driven by higher cash taxes as well as the strong performance we saw in Q4 2011.
And finally we expect our return on invested capital to be between 12.3% and 12.8%.
Continuing on to Page 10.
I'll briefly comment on our outlook.
From a sales perspective we see our International business offsetting the softness in our domestic business.
We expect 2012 margins to continue to be solid but will be impacted by a change in program mix contract completions and a workdown of more mature products in our domestic backlog.
And again our improved cost structure gets repriced into our new contracts as they get awarded throughout the year.
If you'd now turn to Page 11.
We provided you with our 2012 outlook by quarter.
You'll notice the improvement in sales cadence as we go through the year which reflects program timing in the current environment.
It's also important to note that there is a slower ramp of our longer-duration international business specifically associated with some of the larger bookings we received at the end of 2011.
We expect bookings to be back-half-loaded similar to last year.
Finally on Page 12 as many of you have requested we've provided a summary of the financial impact from our pensions in 2011 as well as our assumptions for 2012 through 2014.
We believe this will help you better understand our company over the next few years.
I do want to point out that holding all assumptions equal 2011 represents the inflection point with the FAS/CAS Adjustment continuing to improve in 2012 ultimately turning positive in 2014.
With respect to CAS harmonization the rule was published late in 2011 and primarily increases the CAS reimbursement in 2014 and beyond.
For this outlook we've held the 5% discount rate constant over the forecast period notwithstanding possible increases in the interest rate environment.
So let me conclude by saying that in 2011 Raytheon delivered strong operating performance with margins earnings and operating cash flow all ahead of expectations despite the challenging economic environment.
Book to bill was strong and total backlog increased year-over-year.
We will continue to expand our already substantial international business.
Our balance sheet remains solid with net debt of less than $1 billion.
Given our strong financial position our diverse portfolio of innovative and affordable technologies and our continued focus on driving efficiencies across the business we remain confident in our future and in our ability to continue to deliver improved value for our customers and our shareholders.
So with that Bill and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from the line of Heidi Wood Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you guys.
Actually just awash in paperwork here so I'm trying to find the questions.
First of all on the international sales outlook Bill.
As we look forward can you highlight us -- for us where the areas of opportunity are going forward? I mean has the Asia-Pacific market sort of flattened out? Or do you see opportunities in Indonesia Malaysia Saudi? Where is that coming in from? And also highlight for us what percentage of international sales will they be in 2012 versus '11.
Okay let me start with 2012 first.
We expect about 30% of our bookings to come internationally and about 26% of our sales.
And we expect probably mid-single-digit increase in the environment.
Clearly for us Asia and the Middle East are important and are still growing and we don't see those being flat.
And we actually -- given some of our products they're all around the world.
If you take our traffic control business and radars and systems those have got markets everywhere.
We've got C4I opportunities not only in Mideast but other places in the world.
And of course in our missile business those continue.
Patriot probably one of our biggest drivers.
We've got Kuwait probably in the second half for 2 to 4 fire units.
Turkey should be making a decision probably in the first half and an award in the second half.
We've got activity in Oman for air defense.
We've got Paveway around the world.
Mentioned ATC.
Training is growing for us internationally.
We've sold some virtual simulation equipment initial sales and that looks like it's going to proceed to other parts of the world.
And we see South America actually warming up as we go forward.
If all that helps.
The next question will come from the line of Troy Lahr Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked a lot about some of the restructuring efforts that you're going through.
But how much of these are you actually able to hold on to? Are you giving back all these to the customer once you guys reprice this? And can you just maybe give me some clarity on that because we're seeing margins kind of decline a little bit in 2012.
So I'm just wondering even longer term how much do you guys are trying to keep? Let me take part of it and I'll turn it over to Dave.
One I would not use the term restructuring.
For us part of what we do every day is continue to take costs out of our business.
We do that a number of ways.
So Dave went through the Integrated Systems and what we're doing.
What we basically try and do in this company is fundamentally lower our cost across the board in all businesses.
And for us we can say that because all 6 businesses did very well in improving their margin performance.
So we look for sustaining in that effort.
For us clearly 56% of our contracts are fixed price and about 44% are cost plus.
So you take that into account when you go forward.
Some of those savings immediately go right to the customer which is good for them because they want us to do more with no more.
And I think we're demonstrating that.
And on the fixed price some of those contracts have a long duration so you keep it.
Some have a short duration where you bid year-over-year.
And where it's year-over-year we reflect those savings and then we start again and go look for more savings as we go forward.
So for me having done this for a long time you never run in place.
You're always conditioning yourself to be able to run longer and faster and that's what we're trying to do here.
So with that I'll turn it to Dave.
So I talked a little bit about this in the opening comments.
Raytheon does have a competitive advantage in many areas.
Here specifically we're addressing the strategic investments that we made in our Information Technology systems that began a number of years ago and we're in the final phases now.
I provided a little bit of color on the supply chain and what we're doing to improve our efficiencies there along with our supplier partner base.
Going forward we see these type of initiatives continuing because again based on the broad range of company-wide systems that we're able to leverage as we approach cost structure improvements.
I agree with Bill.
It's more of the way we do business and I think characterizing it as a restructuring is not the right way to look at our cost and productivity initiatives.
Going forward I would suggest that this continues to be the case.
It's something we've talked about for a while.
If you are looking at '12 the biggest driver there is the mix of our business primarily from an international perspective.
We have some longer duration large international programs that are beginning to ramp up and some other international programs that are in the final phases of production and it's more of a typical cycle.
But with that we do see ourselves continuing to support the customer in their effort to reduce costs and improve affordability.
And also ultimately it's in the benefit of our shareholders.
The next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question and one sort of clarification on the cash flow.
For Bill I wondered if you might speak to the ministerial changes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and what you see that meaning for the world's largest defense export market? And how we should be thinking about that transition and if it means anything to you and even to some of your peers? I'd love some of your insights there.
And secondly for Dave just a clarification on your cash flow comments.
You said that in Q4 working capital and customer advances were a contributor to the strong performance.
And then you called out cash taxes being a headwind in '12 but then you said that '12 cash flow will be down slightly after correcting for I think the advances but not the cash taxes.
I'm just trying to figure out is working capital a reversal in '12 as well? Or is this just the advance reversal and cash taxes? Yes it's -- okay so let me just answer the last question and then I can clarify whatever you'd like.
So as you go forward into '12 what I was trying to do is -- there's a lot of activity right? We had discretionary pension funding as we move forward from '11 to '12.
We had that $750 million pretax $500 million aftertax.
Then if you separate that out there is a slight increase in the cash taxes year-over-year.
The balance of this is we had strong cash performance in Q4 particularly toward the latter part of Q4 which obviously improved 2011.
And that's going to be difficult to replicate as we go into 2012.
The largest portion of the change between the working capital and the advances is the liquidation of the advances.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay I think I got it.
Okay.
Let me try and remember the question you gave me.
First of all...
Research Division</strong> About KSA and ministerial change.
No no I remembered I was just being a little facetious.
For Raytheon we've been there since 1965.
So that's 47 years.
I've been doing business there for about 32 years so good portion of that time.
We've seen a lot of change in the kingdom.
The change has been positive.
They have a very good succession planning process.
It's laid out and they've let us know where the changes are going to be.
And so for a company that's been there for 47 years and has probably one of the best relationships I'll be a little bit biased here we feel very comfortable with what takes place there.
And they count on us to do what we say we're going to do and to do a little bit better.
And our plan is to continue to delight them.
And they're a big customer of ours.
And that's about the way I think of it.
I look at it as very stable.
Research Division</strong> So no significant change in how we should think about contracting? And there's no -- there's really a seamless transition is what you're saying? Yes for us.
I mean we've been there.
What I tried to -- maybe I'd explain little bit.
We've been there so long that we understand it we feel part of the fabric.
And we continue to get contracts there across the board across all the ministries whether it's Ministry of Interior whether it's MODA whether it's the SANG the National Guard we really enjoy our relationship.
And I don't see any change in that going forward from a Raytheon perspective.
Research Division</strong> But it sort of implies it could be different for some of your peers.
Well if you don't perform it will be really different.
The next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave I wanted to just go back a little bit on the cash flow and see if you can maybe quantify some of this is that if I look at your year-over-year cash from operations it looks like it's down kind of $400 million to $500 million.
You've showed in the slide that you're going to have about $700 million less in cash going into pension.
And so I'm just trying to think about how much of that could really be the cash taxes.
And then separately can you just give us a CapEx number for '12 versus '11? Yes CapEx for '12 let me start off with that including the software portion is about in line with what we -- where we ended for '11.
So there's no big swing item in that area.
And if you look at kind of '11 to '12 because of the year-end performance in combination with the advances the way I would suggest Sam looking at our cash flow is really over a 2-year period.
And I think if you normalize it you'll see more of the normal pace and cadence from our company perspective.
The change is between the advances.
And the performance in Q4 is in the neighborhood year-over-year of $700 million $800 million.
But again this is all due to the timing of what happens when.
It could happen on the last day of one quarter versus the first day of another.
So I think it's better and analytically if you're going to try to look at the company and understand the company to sort of average this over a 2-year period.
LLC Research Division</strong> But if I see -- if I just look at the advances line it's up $500 million from the September quarter to the December.
So that's what you're talking about in terms of the advances.
And then I'm just trying to just get a quantification of cash taxes in '12 versus '11.
How big of a shift is it? Yes the shift in cash taxes to '12 is about $100 million $150 million.
Now that's excluding the impact of the cash taxes from the discretionary pension contribution.
If you take that into account it's $350 million.
So I'm trying to just walk that down.
I was isolating the tax benefit associated with the discretionary pension contribution.
And the next question will come from the line of Robert Spingarn Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about the organic sales expectation by domestic and international Bill? And then perhaps offer your bookings expectation for the year.
Yes I think the way I look at this is I expect domestic to be down probably down because of inflation because we'd look at it being flat with inflation taking it down.
And then on the macro part we look at the international offsetting that to kind of keep us at I'd say level as we look through it.
At the same time if the international happened at a faster rate then the international would really offset the domestic.
And so we're pushing hard on some big jobs internationally to see if we can begin to move to left a little bit which would be better for the home team as I look at it.
And so that's where our real push is.
And as Dave mentioned we had some come in at the late part of the year a little later than we wanted.
But the good news is they came in.
And for us internationally we're not having losses.
It's just a delay.
So I feel really good about our international posture of where we're going.
And then the other thing domestically we're seeing a good uptick in the classified.
For us total year we had about 12% of our bookings and about 15% of our sales in classified.
And next year we expect bookings about 13% or 15% range.
And we expect sales in the 14% or 15%.
So we expect a high single- or low double-digit growth in the classified area.
So that's a positive on the domestic side that we expect to see more of that especially where we think the department is going in '12 '13 and '14.
Research Division</strong> Bill can we put some more specific numbers to those though? Would we have like -- what would your book-to-bill expectation be across the company for the year? And then on the organic growth decline domestically what does that look like given that you've got sort of flattish sales with the acquisitions and the international growing? Let me kind of set up a little perspective and I'll answer your question very directly.
So you start out with a bookings cadence in 2011.
Bookings in the first half of the year were about $12.5 billion.
The balance of a little bit better than $14 billion was in the back half of the year.
It's following the same sort of pace and cadence as we go into '12 just say roughly speaking 40% 45% in the first half.
The balance in the back half of the year.
That's kind of from a company-level viewpoint.
So you take this down what does it translate into.
For -- from a domestic sales standpoint full year basis we see ourselves being down in the low single digits say 2% 3%-ish.
From an international standpoint mid to high single digits and then you kind of run through the math.
And that takes you to about flat on the year maybe plus 1% to down 1%.
And if you want a book end the book-to-bill ratio today again it's early in the year but you could be anywhere in the say slightly under 1 to maybe upwards of 1.04 1.05 right in that neighborhood.
The next question comes from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> Bill how are you thinking about the potential for the sequester? And how do you plan for that given that it's unlikely anything's going to be resolved until post the presidential election? Well what we do here is since Modeling and Sim is a good part of our business we look at both the upside and the downside and what it means.
And the other thing that we look at I mean the key things are the versatility of our portfolio.
I've always been trained when one door closes another door opens.
Here the way we talk about it in our company is trying to figure out the second and third order effects of every decision.
So for us what we look at is we still have to figure out how to train fight and equip and we have to do it in this new environment.
And given that we've got 8 000 programs and 15 000 contracts we go through a pretty good analysis of figuring out okay this is what the normal budget would be and if we did go to sequestration what would they do and how would we handle it? Where do we offset it? Clearly for us if I think about what the SecDef says he still wants to have the strongest military in the world.
He believes the forces will be smaller but still significant.
He wants them agile flexible rapid et cetera.
He wants to focus on the balance of global posture which is really the Pacific region MENA and he wants to work on partnerships.
So if I think through that part our international strategy really ties in nice.
We also tie into the front part and he wants to be able to confront multiple aggressors and wants to continue to invest in defense technology.
And so when I think of all the things that he wants to do in the current environment and what sequester would do to them we'd look at it and make sure that we see the telltale signs of it as things happen and that as a company we have plans in place to be able to handle that.
And so from our standpoint we know what to do if the worst happens.
Spending my time on The Hill we're not hearing about the worst happening.
They're trying to figure out ways around this but we'll see what will happen.
But in any case plus middle or down I can assure you the company has plans in place to be able to handle that.
Research Division</strong> Okay but just to be clear in terms of your forecast as it stands say revenue forecast it doesn't incorporate any impact from the sequester coming -- actually coming through this year.
Right because if you look at it the fiscal year '12 and '13 budgets have the Budget Control Act built into them.
The only thing that could change that is if somebody decides that they're really going to go through -- go in and throw the knife and make it happen.
Then I think we'll start to see that in '14 and '15.
But there could be some cancellations in '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As a follow-up can you just give us an idea on DDG 1000 where that stands now in terms of a revenue run rate? How much does it come off? And what's the outlook for it over the next year or 2? Yes.
So right.
If you go back to '10 the program from a Raytheon standpoint drove about $800 million in sales.
You roll the reel forward.
The program was retimed out a few more years than we originally had anticipated.
And in 2011 we had about $450 million in sales from that program.
And that'll come down to about $300 million in '12 and then start to rebound about $100 million a year after that.
In other words it'll be up to about $400 million in '13.
And I would add something to what Dave said as there's going to be a pretty good debate going on now between what Zumwalt can do and what the 51 can do.
There's a GAL report out that is asking for a pretty good analysis to be done because some of the decisions that were made back when really didn't have all the information to what the Zumwalt can do.
So we're looking forward to seeing that first ship go in the water with its capabilities.
And we think it's going to be eye-watering when people see what this new hull can do and the electronics in the ship.
And if you look at it manning you go from 450 people down to 150 if I remember my numbers right.
So it should be some exciting times for Zumwalt coming up here.
The next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could on a more book-peaking-type question update us on the percentage of overall company sales that you might get from your largest contract at this point and maybe from your top 10 contracts? Yes.
Let me talk a little bit about composition and diversification as -- since the numbers are very important to us.
Only 36 of our contracts had sales greater than $100 million last year.
Only one contract had sales greater than $500 million.
Only 31 contracts made up 25% of our sales.
The next 25% were 132 contracts.
The remaining 50% is driven by 15 000 contracts.
So I'll give you an idea of the diversification of our portfolio and how we look at the company.
And one of the reasons why I feel sorry for all of you because it's really hard to model us when you look at it when you have that many contracts in the mix.
But the good part about it is that it really speaks to the strength of the portfolio of smaller forces how do you be significant agile flexible and rapid.
And we can do that.
And then it's -- you give me an opportunity to do a little bit of my thing.
I like to talk about tech wins that no one ever reads about.
And some of the wins we're having are phenomenal where we have strategic social interaction where we really look at helping the military understand how you engage with others with cultural differences just to give you an idea of the versatility of what we get into.
We have another program called Sirius which is a learning environment of how do you mitigate cognitive base -- biases.
So when analysts look at things you have built-in biases and we're working with gamers and others to help analysts understand how you get those biases out when you look at data or information.
And then we have our high-frequency Surface Wave Radar systems where we can do coastal defense and with unbelievable area coverage far enough out.
I mentioned our virtual simulation.
We had an international award there but now countries are realizing they can do training in a different way especially when you realize the youth is very comfortable with virtual worlds.
And then we have work we do for the Automated Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast capability ADSB which is the air traffic control work that we're doing there.
And then we've got railgun pulse forming networks.
We kind of see those in the movies so Transformers and stuff.
But that's the stuff this company's involved in.
So broad based portfolio lots of tech wins going on that help us here in the future.
If that helps.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick follow up.
If we look at margins out of the next several years Dave I think you mentioned that international as far as the revenue rate they're kind of picking up into the back half of the year I'm guessing that moves into 2013 as well.
Can you confirm or just give us some color as to what margin rates do when international becomes a greater mix of your overall business to be able to stay at current levels or actually move higher as that mix moves more towards international.
Well -- so we performed well in '11.
Understand that's in the rearview mirror.
That was the result primarily of controlling and managing our cost structure.
And we'll continue to do that as we move forward.
As we shift more toward international we do see that benefiting the company from a return standpoint.
So I would suggest that we will continue to focus the group on return on sales and managing the cost structure and capitalizing and leveraging on our international business.
One of the things that you have to keep in mind is -- and we've said this in the past the numbers that you see are the company average.
So there's a lot of programs that are to the left of that average and some programs to the right of that average.
And internally we continue to focus on programs that are to the left of center and continue to try to drive the company toward improving overall returns for the company as we move ahead.
Hope that helps.
The next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I follow the company for over 25 years.
Nice to see you break out single-line item total Patriot orders.
I always thought it was like 25 programs.
Nice to admit that it's really one major area.
So anyway so you had $3.1 billion of orders and it looks like your book to bill was well over 1.
And you indicated that DDG is coming down this year.
But we've gone 2 years with book to bill at IDS kind of over 1.1.
The rebound of DDG next year I mean in 2013 -- I mean and the growing backlog on Patriot.
I mean is there any way we're not going to have a good sales gain at IDS in 2013? Well it's -- I like your analysis.
We're not talking about 2013 but I would suggest that if you stand back and look at the performance of IDS and the large awards and the duration of some of these contracts as they start to ramp up I think we'll see a good solid year for IDS in '13 on top of a strong year in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> But then you projected that margins are going to be down and yet you have this big incremental backlog add from the Patriot.
And the Saudi work is your second Config-3 customer.
So shouldn't the profitability be at least as good if not improving? There's a lot of moving parts and you have to firstly keep in mind that the margin by and large as we look again in the rearview mirror was driven by the productivity actions and those at some point in time either realtime or in a fairly short period of time get repriced in the contracts.
So that's part one.
Part two is the larger programs that were recently awarded in IDS and some of the ones that we anticipate being awarded this year are longer-duration ramp-up programs.
And as a result given the initial risk in opportunity profile we have to take all that into account with respect to our booking rates and how we see these programs from a return perspective.
So in 2012 you're starting to see the ramp up of some new programs and you're seeing the final phases of some longer-term production programs.
As we move into '13 and '14 we'll continue to push on margins not only at IDS but across the company.
And the next question will come from the line of George Shapiro Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> Dave or Bill I'm just wondering you usually give how much international sales grew in the quarter and how much domestic came down and what classified it.
But unless I was sleeping on -- I didn't hear it this time.
Let me try to do some of them and Dave can chime in here.
I think I mentioned on the classified they represented total year about 12% of our bookings and 15% of the sales.
It was about the same thing in Q4 in that and classified grew about 9% year-over-year.
And we expect similar growth next year in the 8% to 10% range.
On the international for the total year they were 29% of the bookings and about 25% of the sales.
And for the quarter it was about 33% of the bookings and 25% of the sales.
And that was about a 7% increase year-over-year.
In '12 I think I mentioned bookings should be about 30% sales around 26% and we expect mid-single-digit increase.
So George one of the things -- and I'll provide a little more color.
One of the things that's important to keep in mind is there were 5 fewer workdays overall on the quarter.
So year-over-year from a company standpoint adjusting for those days we would have been up about 2% from an overall standpoint.
But when you just run the pure math and you don't normalize for days classified would've been down about 5% but it's not a good comp because you're comparing a little bit of apples and oranges.
And I think that's maybe what you were looking for.
And the one thing I'd add that we didn't chat about that cyber continues to grow for us.
We both have the white and the black world here or classified and unclassified but the good news is the way we look at classified and the way we can but we can't report on it.
But clearly for us we saw double-digit increase last year in cyber and for your all benefit the RFPs are starting to see an uptick in this world.
So we're feeling pretty good about where cyber's going.
And to kind of put it in perspective I think we got about 2 000 people -- professionals working on the 1s and 0s side and an equal number working on making sure that our solutions are inside our products as we go.
So that's why it makes it hard for us compared to anybody else.
We do it in the product and services plus we do it internally.
LLC</strong> So Dave putting it all together how much was domestic down on both adjusted and unadjusted basis? In the fourth quarter I can give you the unadjusted.
It was down just a little under 7.5%.
But again George -- and this is important so I'll reemphasize that those 5 days have a big swing in all of these numbers.
And if you want to do it analytically you can.
I'll leave that to you which is fine but just on an arithmetic basis it was down a little under 7.5%.
Again that's  not a good comp because of the 5 less workdays.
LLC</strong> And then just one slightly different question.
You're projecting NCS sales in '12 to be down to flat to down a little bit after declining by 9% in '11.
Given the sharp declines we're seeing in the Army and the high focus of that business it -- in the Army why won't that revenue number be down by more? Okay.
So NCS was historically aligned with Army requirements as you just suggested.
And priorities have shifted.
So when we look at C4I they have 1 or 2 meaningful international prospects in 2012 and we would expect them to ramp up during the year.
It's also important to note that they have some real opportunity to expand in the Homeland Security area.
So I guess the summary is they're ramping down in the second-gen EO Army business and shifting more towards international areas of C4I Homeland Security and virtual or simulation training.
Plus I'd add their Air Traffic Control Radar and Systems business is picking up because international air traffic is growing.
And for us we see Homeland Security increasing.
I think last year we had sales around $760 million.
If you go back a couple of years ago that was about $532 million.
And we expect Homeland Security to grow in the low single digits.
And that's one of the strengths of NCS.
We're going to have to leave it there today.
Thank you all for joining us.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter call in April.
Deanna? Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relation.
And you have the floor sir.
Thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of the call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and the printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon's off to a good start in 2012.
First quarter sales adjusted margins EPS and cash flow were all ahead of expectation.
Our continued solid operating performance was once again driven by our strong execution.
As a result of this performance we're raising our EPS guidance for the year.
Overall I'm pleased with how the company is operating.
We remain focused on delivering the best value across our broad portfolio of programs and technologies and we're well-aligned with our customers evolving requirements.
We are adapting our proven technologies for new and innovative applications.
As an example of how Raytheon is able to leverage cost-effective solutions that can be brought to the market quickly is a recent contract we won to develop the Accelerated Improved Intercept Initiative or as we call it AI3.
This system will detect and destroy incoming rockets fired at forward-deployed forces and it adapts Raytheon's proven missile and sensor technologies for new application in a rapid fashion.
Another example is our Multi-Function Radio Frequency System Radar which we affectionately call MFRFS.
This system was originally developed as part of the Army's future combat system program.
Now in response to an urgent operational need we received an award to develop a Ku Band version to help better detect rocket artillery and mortar threats.
Both of these are truly life-saving capabilities for our men and women in uniform.
On a different note given the ever evolving nature of technology our ability to develop innovative counter technologies remains key to keeping our defense capabilities on the cutting edge.
Part of our strategy is continue to invest and develop new capabilities for cybersecurity and electronic warfare applications that are aligned with our customers' requirements.
We're doing all of this while at the same time continuing to improve our operating efficiency.
As many of you are aware an advantage for Raytheon is our strong position in global markets.
Our International business represented 25% of our total sales and 27% of our bookings in the quarter.
Emerging threats are driving demand for our products around the globe in particular the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions.
Our opportunities range from large integrated air and missile defense systems to precision weapons and missiles to intelligence and information systems and to a wide variety of ISR solutions for both military and civil markets.
In the quarter we have strong classified bookings which represented 26% of the total bookings.
This is yet another example of how the diversity of Raytheon's portfolio contributes to our overall success.
For the company total backlog was up approximately $600 million year-over-year and on a funded basis our backlog is up over $500 million from the end of 2011 and up approximately $1.2 billion from the same period last year.
Overall bookings in the quarter were in line with what we had expected.
This follows a very strong fourth quarter where we had a book-to-bill ratio of 1.11.
As we mentioned on our last call we expect bookings in the back half of the year to be better than the first half.
Last month we announced a 16% increase in our dividend per share.
This is the eighth consecutive year in which we increased our dividend and as a contributor of our overall balance capital deployment strategy and reflects our confidence in our cash generation potential and the strength of our overall financial portfolio.
From a broader perspective we recognize that the prospect of sequestration continues to affect the visibility of the longer-term DoD budget outlook.
The risk associated with implementing this legislation have been well-articulated by DoD leadership and by many on The Hill.
Whether or not it ultimately occurs won't be determined today.
The debate's not settled and it will likely continue through the year.
Given that backdrop we're focused on the things we can control and we're managing the business to maximize value for all our stakeholders.
Whatever the environment and if one looks back at our track record of financial performance you can be assured that this is what we'll continue to do.
More recently a key driver of our performance has been our supply chain initiative.
About 1.5 years ago we started talking about our strategic sourcing and centralized procurement efforts.
We're now taking the next step which is to optimize subcontractor management which should allow us to drive further improvements over time.
Before I turn it over to Dave I'd like to talk about the company's sustainability effort with Earth Day having been on Sunday.
For us sustainability is part of our DNA.
Focusing on sustainability is not only the right thing to do it also has a positive impact on our bottom line.
We've worked hard to improve our performance in this area and our efforts are yielding results.
Since 2008 we've reduced our water consumption by 21% our greenhouse emissions by 16% and our energy consumption by 9%.
We're proud of these results but we're not stopping here.
Our goal is to continuously improve in this area and further reduce our environmental footprint.
As I mentioned before we finished last year with the best safety record in the company's history.
Through our best-in-class programs we lead our industry and workplace safety.
I'm pleased with our overall performance in the quarter.
The Raytheon team continues to work diligently to deliver outstanding products to our customers and to deliver value to our shareholders.
I'd like to thank the team for their efforts and continued dedication.
And with that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with first quarter highlights and then we'll move on to some questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
So if everyone would please move to Page 3.
As Bill noted we're pleased with the solid performance in the first quarter.
And once again both International bookings and International sales were strong.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.46 was up 7% driven by capital deployment actions and continued operational improvements.
Adjusted operating margin was 13.1% up 60 basis points compared to last year's first quarter.
Sales of $5.9 billion exceeded the high end of our expectations which I'll discuss further in just a moment.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations of $111 million was better than our prior guidance due to the timing of collections previously expected in the second quarter.
During the quarter the company repurchased 7.9 million shares of common stock for $400 million.
In addition our Board of Directors approved an increase to the company's annual dividend rate by 16% to $2 per share.
We've now increased the dividend for 8 consecutive years.
Our full year 2012 guidance for EPS has now increased by $0.10 which I'll discuss in more detail in a few minutes.
Turning now to Page 4 let me start by providing some color on our first quarter results.
Our total bookings for the quarter were $5.2 billion.
As I mentioned on the January call we continued to see the order book back end loaded ramping up in midyear.
From a cadence standpoint we expect the book-to-bill to expand as we move through the year resulting in an estimated full year book-to-bill range of between roughly 1x and 1.05x.
Notable bookings in the first quarter included $182 million at IDS to provide Patriot engineering services for the U.S.
and international customers and $90 million to provide engineering services production and support for the Aegis weapon system for the U.S.
Navy.
Missile Systems booked $497 million for the newest version of the AMRAAM missile for the U.S.
Air Force and international customers.
MS also booked $172 million for the AIM-9X sidewinder short-range air-to-air missile for the U.S.
Navy and international customers and $171 million for the development of SM-3 for the Missile Defense Agency.
NCS booked $81 million on the Navy multiband terminal program.
Space and Airborne Systems booked $159 million to supply radar spare parts on the APG-63 for an international customer $99 million on a radar performance-based logistics contract for international customers and $77 million for the production of radar warning receivers for the U.S.
Navy.
Technical Services booked $119 million for foreign training and $68 million for domestic training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS program.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $284 million and $925 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter was $34.3 billion compared to $35.3 billion at the end of 2011.
Our backlog at the end of the first quarter of 2012 was approximately $600 million higher than the same period last year.
And as Bill just mentioned on a funded basis our backlog was up over $500 million from the end of 2011 and up approximately $1.2 billion from the same period last year.
If you move to Page 5 sales were ahead of our expectations driven by international customer demand.
Booking at sales by business 5 of the 6 businesses had sales essentially in line with the same period last year.
NCS had net sales of $1 billion in line with our expectations.
The change in net sales was primarily due to the planned decline in production of U.S.
Army programs.
Moving ahead to Page 6 we're pleased by our overall company margin performance once again showing year-over-year increase driven by operational improvements.
Our adjusted margin was up 60 basis points to 13.1%.
Our focus on execution productivity and efficiency across the board continues to be reflected in our financial results.
So looking at the business margins IDS IIS MS and SAS margins were up in the quarter compared with the same period last year.
At IIS margins were up 120 basis points over last year's first quarter excluding the U.K.
BA letters of credit adjustment.
I do want to point out that IIS also benefited from $8 million related to an insurance recovery for legal expenses.
At NCS the change in operating margin in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011 was primarily due to the production program efficiencies last year.
And the Technical Services several minor favorable items in the same period last year drove the difference in operating income and margin.
These included a contract modification contract extension and a legal settlement.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
So turning to Page 7 first quarter 2012 adjusted EPS was $1.46 up 7%.
The increase was driven by capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases and operational improvements partially offset by a higher tax rate due to the expiration of the R&amp;D credit.
As a reminder the R&amp;D tax credit is not included in our guidance this year.
On Page 8 you'll note that we raised our full year 2012 EPS guidance by $0.10 to a range of between $5 and $5.15 and on an adjusted basis to a range of between $5.55 and $5.70.
I'd like to point out that the increase is primarily driven by operational improvements.
We repurchased 7.9 million shares of common stock for $400 million in the quarter.
We expect the quarterly repurchase amount to moderate for the balance of the year which is reflected in our share count guidance.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've included the change in our guidance by business.
The increase in margin guidance reflects the results from our continued efforts on productivity and efficiency initiatives.
Importantly we continue to pass along substantial savings to our customers.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales earnings per share and operating cash flow from continuing operations for the balance of 2012.
We saw a good performance in the first quarter compared to both Q1 2011 and also the initial outlook for Q1 2012 that we provided in January.
To put this in perspective we were able to implement improved productivity and efficiency initiatives along with accelerated volume tied to customer demands on a number of programs.
This resulted in an improvement in our performance and our outlook.
Okay so now let me summarize our overall performance in the first quarter.
While the environment remains challenging we had solid sales and strong margins EPS and cash flow.
As we stand back and look over the last 4 quarters there are several items I think that are important to highlight.
Our bookings have been strong with a trailing 12-month book-to-bill ratio of 1.08x.
Our operational performance has also been strong with adjusted margin exceeding 13% over that same time period.
We're in a good financial position with net debt of just over $1 billion.
We raised our dividend 16% in the first quarter and are raising our EPS guidance for 2012.
We remain well-positioned in key areas and are aligned with the priorities of our global customers.
And we continue to drive the business to maximize value for our customers and shareholders.
With that Bill and I will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was wondering if you could just walk through the rest of the year and the cadence.
And maybe offer up some qualitative comment around why we're seeing a bit of a degradation in both revenues and earnings relative to the guidance that you gave earlier this year.
Is it just a bit of conservatism based on the environment that we're in today? No.
We are feeling very positive about the results in the first quarter.
From a sales standpoint we exceeded our initial guidance by about $200 million and that was primarily driven by increased customer demand for certain of our programs.
You'll recall that the end of last year we received some large international air and missile defense programs and we're off to a good start in that area.
Let me just kind of put things in perspective.
So if you look back 2011 was a strong year and we discussed in January the results of last year.
We expected margins to moderate in 2012.
Q1 came in stronger than we expected.
This was partially due to some timing and a few small non-recurring items.
Without these items we're still posting margins in the high 12% range.
I'll repeat some of what I went through a few months back that I mentioned on the fourth quarter call.
There is a shift in our backlog and our sales profile this year versus last year and it's weighted more toward international customers.
And within the International business we're also seeing mixed impacts driven by the stage of maturity of some of these programs.
We want -- like I just said we want some large programs at the end of last year.
These are longer in duration and slower to ramp up and typical domestic awards of similar size.
So we're be impacted by mix in 2012 along with the continued completions and wind down of some later stage production programs in our domestic backlog.
So with all that said we are accelerating the ramp up of some programs and this is resulting in a shift in our sales cadence compared to prior guidance as well as some efficiencies from a margin standpoint in particular at IDS.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 bigger picture questions one for each of you.
Dave I wondered if you might speak to some of the things you and your peers and for that matter the DoD customer might begin doing; the sort of contingency planning exercise for the sort of looming wall of sequestration.
I'm sort of interested in things around workforce planning past management contracting.
What sorts of things are you guys envisioning as having to do from a contingency planning standpoint if this gets closer and we sort of progress through the year? So I'll start and I'm sure Bill wants to mention a few things.
We've talked about this on the last couple of earnings calls.
First of all we've gone through a number of different planning scenarios and I think the best way for me to put this is we are prepared to operate effectively under any given industry conditions.
So without getting specific because at this stage it's inappropriate just given where we are and all the discussions taking place in Washington we are confident that we'll continue to perform well irrespective of how this actually plays out.
It's important to keep in mind we have a very broad portfolio.
Close to 40% of our backlog is international.
That's obviously I think an important differentiator and competitive advantage for the company.
We have over 8 000 different programs and technologies.
And we continue to manage the business in a very cost-effective manner.
We talked about this in the past we have -- 7 8 years ago we embarked on a strategic initiative to implement company-wide information technology systems from a factory standpoint from an HR standpoint from a supply chain standpoint and from a people standpoint.
So that gives us a platform to be very flexible irrespective of how things play out.
So yes...
Research Division</strong> Just to kind of expand on that just in one area as you think about cash management is it something where you want to preserve cash as we get later in the year and protect in case -- should you decide to sell fund some contracts? Or how should we think about cash management in the latter part of the year? Right so we've provided our cash guidance and again this was thoughtful and talked about on the last call.
From an environmental standpoint not much has changed from the last call so we wouldn't expect any change from our capital deployment plan all things considered.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one for Bill.
Bill I think there's something like 6 cyber-related bills making their way around Congress this week.
And I wondered if you might tell us what if anything this means for the future of this domain from your perspective.
I mean does any of this legislation have a chance of passing? And if it did does it signal new areas of risk or opportunity or if nothing else more funding? One I think what I would say is it's a good healthy debate that's taking place in the cyber arena of what to go do.
And for me I always remember something that Secretary Gates had said that when he first went into office he really wanted to get a definition of what to go do in cyber.
And some 4 years later plus there still wasn't direction of what to go do.
And clearly we now see some of that direction taking shape of who calls the ball and what action to take at least from what I'll call the sword aspect of cyber which is the attack or counterattack.
And for me it's taken a while for this to gel but I'm encouraged that Congress is looking at it or having a debate.
They're talking to all aspects whether it's Facebook or Twitter or the people from Google or Microsoft and they're talking to us and they're trying to take responsible action.
The good news is there is attention to this problem and we need attention and I think attention is healthy.
And so I view it as positive.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Start with NCS and we know that's where much of the Army exposure has been and the supplemental exposure.
I was wondering if we could step back and look at the sector today where it is today with the $1 billion of sales in the quarter maybe the profile and how it's changed the last couple of years and what you see going forward.
While traditional sales of Army products have declined at NCS consistent with the drawdown I believe NCS is well positioned on our Army's new platforms such as the ground combat vehicle the modernization of their electro-optic sights we're going from second gen to third gen on the existing vehicles and fielding advanced battlefield radars and the new radars which are really sense and warn radars like MFRFS which is important in the MFRFS radar for your benefit if you didn't know or if you do know I'll just repeat it is that radar is really the primary sensor to help execute the Army's new Counter Rocket Artillery and Mortar C-RAM mission.
And as I mentioned in my remarks the AI3 program that particular missile uses a MFRFS radar to help it in the counterattack.
So we look at that part of the business.
As the Army transitions we're going to transition with them.
The next area where NCS works in is in the satellite terminal business.
There the Army SMART-T program has been on track and we're ramping up deliveries.
The Navy's multiband terminal program has been awarded the production and that's starting to ramp up for us.
And of course the Air Force's MMPU program positions us well in the satellite terminal business.
And we see NCS positioned well where others have ran into trouble in that area.
We've just recently completed our NATO air command and control system we call it ACCS which is the largest software program of its type in the world.
And we just got awarded an initial Q1 award to add missile defense capabilities for NATO into that.
So that's bodes well for Europe and our systems there.
And then recently as you probably know the U.S.
government decided to pursue alternatives to JTRS the ground mobile radar and airborne maritime fixed radios.
And that's created a real opportunity for us in our ARC-231 radios and our MAINGATE mobile ad hoc networking radio gateway.
For us we believe in the future here.
One of the discriminators is passing full video across the battlefield and supporting large node networks.
And none of the current JTRS radios can do that but MAINGATE's able to do it.
And then the other thing I would point out is NCS is one of our -- they win most of the CRAD work within the company.
So we see the transition that has taken place with the Army changing their focus going more to smaller and on the run.
And NCS is adapting with them and we see the back half of the year being where that starts to change.
So everything's kind of consistent with what we saw in the transition and they've been performing well from an operational point in doing that with no surprises at all if that helps.
Research Division</strong> Would you say that we're much of the way through that transition? And if this was close to a $5 billion business a couple of years ago obviously the war spending was a big part of that.
Margins were over 14%.
So margins come down as you shift towards some of the newer programs and sales are coming off but are we in the fourth inning or the eighth inning if we -- over a multiyear period of time? We're probably in about the sixth or seventh inning in that probably standing up and looking at where we're at.
We expect some awards here in the second and third quarter which bode well for them as they start to do it.
So everything is consistent.
We went through this if you'll remember because you followed us long enough.
Our TSE transition through one of these and came out of it very strong and we expect the same thing for NCS.
And that's the nature of our portfolio.
You look at it.
We'd love for everything to be hitting on all 8 cylinders but it doesn't happen all the time.
So what you have are other businesses that carry the load and as you adjust.
And that's why we love our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick one for Dave if I might.
On IDS you're -- you got 3 really solid margin quarters now in a row 17% 18%.
You boosted your guidance but it's still below where you've been in the last 3 quarters.
I'm sure there's been some risk reduction there.
Can you just give us a sense as to whether there's -- those contracts that you've been booking the positive adjustments are those falling off now or is there still more opportunity the next couple of quarters? No that business is performing well.
It is the business that it focuses on the larger radars and the air and missile defense systems.
I'll repeat what I said a little bit earlier they did -- they were able to secure some large awards both domestically and internationally at the end of last year.
The team over there continues to focus on the productivity side and on the cost efficiency side.
They have posted I would say very strong results.
We were very pleased with how the first quarter played out.
Some of this was due to timing.
The timing of some of the productivity initiatives being pulled ahead to the first quarter that were anticipated later in the year.
But with that said I would suggest the higher end of the margin range is probably the appropriate way to think about IDS for the balance of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually I guess Dave I wanted to just follow-up on that last comment which is just relative to January a lot of improvement in terms of the margin outlook for the different segments and it may only be 20 basis points here and there.
But can you talk about things that you had been worried about that you've retired in terms of risk and why things would've changed so much in just a couple of months? Well we had strong results in the fourth quarter of last year as I'm sure you recall.
And there is a broad company-wide focus on execution and on again I'll repeat it the productivity initiatives.
And we are seeing some strong and positive results as a result of this focus by all areas of the company.
Supply chain is doing an outstanding job and has implemented a number of new initiatives both with respect to material procurement and subcontractor management.
And we've continued to take cost out of our G&amp;A and general overhead structure.
And this is resulting in a margin profile that is slightly exceeding what we had initially anticipated.
As we move further along with some of these programs and we're off to a good start and solid launches we're able to retire some early program risk.
But by and large it's around the execution side from a productivity standpoint.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned in one of your earlier comments about some onetime items that did help can you quantify the insurance recovery in IIS and was there anything else that you would consider onetime? Yes.
So the IIS insurance recovery was about $8 million.
It was worth about 100 basis points to IIS.
But let me make this point because I think it's important when you normalize IIS operations for the letter of credit last year and the insurance recovery this year they're up about 20 to 30 basis points operationally.
From a non-recurring or onetime event standpoint the only other item of note would be a consolidation of a couple of related contract in SAS where we were able to realize some material and labor efficiencies that was originally planned for the second quarter.
And we were able to affect that in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
LLC</strong> Bill the usual question I ask I mean can you give us the international sales growth in the quarter the classified sales growth and then by deduction how much the domestic x classified change? Let me take a shot at the international.
As I mentioned 27% of the bookings were international and about 25% of the sales were there.
We still think for the year that bookings are going to be around 30% plus or minus.
Sales should be 26% plus or minus and that'll probably internationally mid-single-digit kind of growth for us as we look at it.
Classified as I said was strong for us with 26% of the bookings.
We expect classified to be around 15% plus or minus a little bit there which will be double-digit growth year-over-year.
Sales will probably be on the flattish side on the classified but pump is really getting primed here so we'll feel better about '13 as we look at it and go into it.
And so from our standpoint the international is offsetting kind of the weakness that we see in the domestic which is kind of related to inflation being that percentage of inflation taking a negative.
It's kind of how I look at it if that helps.
LLC</strong> Yes.
So do I conclude that mid-single-digit growth in international was for the quarter as well as what your expectation is for the year? Yes.
So George this is Dave.
So let me just get a little more specific.
So sales overall were down about 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Domestic -- overall domestic was down about 3% and foreign or international was up about 2%.
Within the domestic classified business was slightly less than breakeven.
So it was down about 1% and all other domestic was about 3.5% down.
LLC</strong> Okay that's good color Dave.
And then I just wanted to ask a more general one.
I mean this is like the first quarter in a long time where you've actually been better than what your sales projection is.
I guess my question is is that due to being overly conservative because of missing last year or are things somewhat better so that your reach is still being conservative by not raising the sales guidance for the year? Or it's just the mix that you talked about in your conversation? That was a lot of questions there George.
I think easiest answer for us is we saw strong demand and we see some customers asking for things even earlier.
So we have the ability to ramp that up and I think Dave covered that in his remarks.
It's not about being conservative.
It's just that there's some good demand for the product.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill another high-level question if I may.
Sure.
Research Division</strong> As we've looked forward it seems like OSD is actually starting to think about the possibility of a sequester.
Sec Def [Leon] Panetta talked about officially looking into it preparing in the summer but I suspect they're starting to do that now.
And even if we get a negotiation or decision from Congress in the lame duck session it may be too late to avoid some impact to Q1.
So on that basis from what you're hearing about what's going on in D.C.
do you think they're contemplating this across-the-board type scenario? Or are they starting to compartmentalize areas of focus? Yes.
I would tell you that at least my views on The Hill no one likes sequestration no one has a plan that everyone likes to avoid it.
So therefore I don't see anything happening to November.
Come November everybody's got everything happening during a lame duck session.
I don't see the lame duck session being able to do everything that everybody's asking it to do so we end up in the January timeframe much like you've just articulated.
And the one thing that we've got to think about is that this is not only defense.
This is state and education and housing and energy and their budgets get completely whacked.
And so my view is that we're going to go into a holding period come January and then we're going to take a timeout for about 12 months to figure out what to go do.
And the outcome is not anything that anybody wants to live with.
The other part that I think we lose sight of is we're in an industry that does not change dramatically overnight.
There are -- you have to look at companies' backlogs you have to look at programs and I don't see and I've never heard anybody talk about a peanut butter approach to this problem.
If they're going to solve it they're going to have to solve it with some very hard programmatic cuts and they'll be after things that are large in nature not across the board because everyone has learned or at least if you've been in business or been associated with our budgeting process that when you use the peanut butter all you do is push the problem to the right and the problem gets bigger.
And I've been encouraged that I have not heard that as a solution if that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay well -- and then for my follow-up if we can just bring this now down to the Raytheon level.
When you take what you just said and then throw in the possibility of a fiscal '13 CR in Q4 how would you and/or Dave assess your risk essentially to the guidance by segment toward the end of the year? I think the way I would answer your question is is that CRs have become a way of life.
And in our guidance we have planned for what we think is what happened last year you go down to the wire and then something happens.
So that's kind of got to be the norm.
Everyone I've talked to on The Hill no one wants to repeat going all the way to April of the following year with the CR.
I think everybody's experienced that pain and what that causes.
So I would tell you we're planning the kind of activity that we saw happen last year and we put that into our thinking caps and into our guidance as we look at it.
The other thing that I want to point out is you all know we're a process company.
So we have plans in place if something went up if it stayed flat and if it went down.
And one of the things that I'm extremely proud of is our workforce planning.
It's something that we think is world-class and it helps us be able to -- they've started to articulate our IT systems but the way I like to think of it is we can win it anywhere we can perform it anywhere and we can deliver it anywhere.
And that's how we've kind of set up the company to make sure during these headwinds you have the flexibility and that you don't end up with your work in the wrong places.
Research Division</strong> Bill which segments have the greatest amount of variability though as this plays out? Oh boy.
If I thought about it you have to look at the funded backlog of each of them.
And if you look at the international those aren't affected by it.
So you've got to take out 26% or 30% of our business.
And so it really makes it hard.
I don't know how to answer your question in that way because what I'm now going to start speculating on is what programs get cut and what don't.
And that's really our proprietary information I guess I'd say it.
Yes.
And I think you need to consider the way the various customers are going to plan through fiscal '13 and beyond.
So it's difficult to handicap which product areas are affected more than others or less than others because much of it will depend on the situation within that particular customer group.
And Dave I want to go back.
We have the fiscal '13 budget right now today.
There were no surprises for us.
We're not hearing anything that deviates from what we have in our plans.
Our programs are performing and we've got to remember that ISR EW Cyber are areas where the department is focused well on and there's not going to be changes there.
And the other thing that happens is when something gets cut there's still a need.
So something has to go back in its place.
And a good example of that is when Enlows [ph] had its issues Griffin now has come back in and filled it.
So it's not a static world.
It's dynamic.
And so when you look at what happens over in A you react in B.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned the 26% bookings were classified.
It seems really high.
So I'm just kind of curious is that a monolithic one or 2 programs or is this a release of classified bookings? And then conversely I guess the implied nonclassified domestic bookings looked -- the run rate there looked to be relatively light.
Can you just talk about the 2 dynamics there? Maybe there's some sort of reclassification of what's classified or not.
No.
I think it's on the call in January we talked about this being the year that was back end loaded.
And so when you look at it the back end loaded is not only international but it's also domestic.
But on the classified side we had a few good programs that came in in the quarter that the timing of them is plus or minus a month or 2 here or there but they all stacked up and they came in nicely and they've primed the pump for a couple of our businesses really driven by SAS and IIS.
Research Division</strong> And then just a clarification on the international sales and the sequestration do you actually have kind of full clarity that FMS sales won't essentially be handicapped by the fact that they have to go through the DoD from a contracting perspective? No I don't see that.
I actually see good help from our DoD partners on the FMS side because you have to think about it in a way.
For us the FMS helps keep our rates in check and in control because if we can put these systems into our plants they carry a burden of the overhead and help our domestic customers from a rate point of view.
So we've got sophisticated domestic customers that understand that.
So it's in their best interest to help us say on Patriot or other programs that our FMS for us or in our missile programs they help load our factories and give us a good competitive advantage.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was just thinking mechanically a lot of the contracts are going through the same program offices who are going to be under massive amounts of stress for various reasons.
I'm just curious if you think that they'll be able to essentially prioritize to the FMS where the money is.
Yes I do because these things are not pop-ups.
If you saw the planning that we go through on say a TPY-2 radar sale to UAE it's in conjunction not only with the country but with the Missile Defense Agency with the State Department there's a lot of coordination on that.
And you lay it out so you look at your workflow and you determine your peaks and valleys.
And we all try and work in unison to understand that flow and give some insight on both sides.
So I think this is where we've got a great working relationship.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Robert Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on the export I was wondering if you could give us any updates on the timing of some of your large awards because sometimes these can move around and whether you've seen any progress in the U.S.
with regarding opening up more military product for export.
Two-part question the international for us the big one's still out there or -- probably second half are Kuwait relative to some new fire units for them.
We expect here sometime in the third quarter fourth quarter on Turkey on their decision.
We've got ground-based air defense in Oman that will be in the last half of the year.
We've got Paveway awards throughout the year that represent $400 million to $500 million in business.
Air traffic radars are $200 million to $300 million they're sprinkled throughout the year.
Missiles we expect some short-range missile sales maybe in about the $600 million range mid 3 quarters of the year.
Training will happen in the second half probably say $400 million.
And then we've got some international C4I that we're hoping to bring in this quarter.
If not it'll be the first part of Q3.
Relative to releasability we see some attention there.
It moves slowly.
But I think as the domestic budget gets under pressure as I was just talking about a minute ago we see our customers view the international business as being good for them too because it helps control the price or the cost of their programs that run through our factories if that helps.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave I want to go back to sort of your comments you talk about mix and performance as sort of being the driving factors pretty much across the board for all of the businesses.
And Bill talked a lot about mix.
Could you talk about again some of the initiatives that you're undertaking and what it means when you say productivity? Does that mean more outsourcing does it mean a change in the way you're speeding processes? Could you elaborate a little bit? And what kind of a runway do you continue to see with these items? Sure.
So obviously Howard it's a multitude of different areas and I think a very good question to put some color on this.
From a -- there is the basic such as looking at our G&amp;A structure.
We look at the travel and outside services and the way we manage those types of areas and cost-reduction opportunities from that standpoint.
We continue to expand our shared services activity and become more efficient on -- or with respect to a number of what I would term back office activities.
Much of this is underscored by our approach we take which is -- I spoke about this earlier which is driven by our Six Sigma approach.
And these bear out continued results quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
From a manufacturing standpoint we continue to improve factory process across the board through both lean initiatives as well as Six Sigma initiatives.
Our touch labor continues to improve.
I think the best way to look at this is what we call our wrap rate which is basically the overhead dollars that are applied to our products.
We have essentially held that flat and in many areas decreased it for the last number of years and we're seeing that trend continue as we go into 2012 and 2013.
There is a meaningful amount of the cost structure that is tied to our material space both direct material indirect material and subcontractors.
We embarked on a number of initiatives a couple of years ago.
They continue to bear out fruit.
I may have mentioned earlier that we've gone from roughly 30 000 suppliers a few years ago to about 12 000 suppliers today.
And we continue to gain both quality and economic improvements from that initiative.
We are now working closely with our major and even our smaller subcontractors to take a meaningful cost reduction and embark on meaningful quality and delivery improvements.
They're already doing a fine job and we're suggesting that they begin to implement the same type of initiative that we did a number of years ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sort of -- part of it's like for example you're reducing the number of trailers that supported Patriot in the past.
So there's a whole host of might've been 3 trailers and now it's one.
I mean and there's a number of things like that.
Is that sort of also -- which really is more engineering driven? Is there a whole initiative on that that continues as well? Howard let me jump in here.
If you remember the old Patriot we can basically clearly get all of those 3 trailers and one trailer now and have room left over.
So one of the things that engineering does is the tremendous job of taking technology and adapting it to make our products more affordable and more capable.
I look at a JSOW missile for example.
What we used to be able to do and what we do we can adjusted it in flight today and have it communicate back awareness.
And that never existed before and you do it in the same airframe at a lower cost.
So yes a lot of it has to do with the engineering productivity in our designs.
Okay we'll have to leave it there.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter conference call in July.
Jeff? Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deanna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Deanna.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
The results we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon reported strong or solid second quarter operating performance driven by great execution across the company.
I'm pleased with our performance in the quarter.
We continue to focus our efforts on driving efficiencies across the operations and leveraging our portfolio of advanced technologies to capture new business.
Bookings were solid in the quarter with a book to bill of over 1.0 driven largely by our domestic and classified business.
Notable bookings include awards for the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle Standard Missile-6 domestic and foreign training and several classified contracts.
Funded backlog increased by over $600 million year-to-date and by approximately $2.1 billion compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Our international pipeline remains robust.
At Farnborough International Airshow earlier this month I had the opportunity to meet with a number of our international customers.
And what I can tell you is that there was considerable interest in Raytheon solutions from a broad set of both existing and new customers.
Overall at this year's show we hosted 30 delegations and had over 600 meetings within a short time frame.
I'm encouraged by what I've heard from our international customers.
They continue to look to us for solutions in the areas of missile-defense radars ISRs cybersecurity Air Traffic Management and training.
In the international market we continue to set the pace among our peer companies and in the quarter international represented approximately about 25% of our total sales.
I'd like to take a few minutes to highlight an important achievement in the quarter.
Our Standard Missile-3 had 2 successful intercept tests one on May 9 and the other on June 27.
These intercepts which have been compared to a bullet hitting a bullet outside the atmosphere demonstrate a critical capability for the United States and our allies.
And they’re an example of how Raytheon continues to provide some of the world's most advanced technologies to meet our customers’ most pressing needs.
In terms of contract awards we received an order for the next block of Multi-Spectral Targeting System for the U.S.
Air Force Reaper UAV in the quarter.
The MTS-B as it's called is a multi-use electro-optical infrared sensor that also provides target acquisition.
This is basically the round ball that many of you see on the predator and reaper drones and it's just one of the many products across Raytheon that leverage our core EO/IR capabilities.
This follows an order received for the dismounted detection radar DDR in the first quarter also for the reaper.
DDR is a synthetic aperture radar pod that can be used to detect ground moving targets in all weather day or night and it's a product of our core RF capabilities being applied in innovative ways to meet the demands of the war fighter.
These products reflect our strong position in the ISR markets alignment with our customers' priorities and demonstrate our platform-agnostic strategy at work.
This strategy gives us the flexibility to place products on multiple platform vehicles and systems.
I would be remiss if I didn't address sequestration.
On this topic there isn't too much enthuse to report from where we were at the end of the first quarter.
Congress continues to look at alternative courses of action.
However the reality is this is an election year which makes coming to a final agreement more challenging.
Further the Office of Management and Budget has not rendered its interpretation of the legislation and the Department of Defense has not indicated its plan for implementing sequestration.
So in this context we continue to plan for a range of potential outcomes.
And like we do every day here at Raytheon we're focused on reducing our costs optimizing our resources so that we can provide the best value for our customers.
Whether sequestration happens or not it's ingrained here in our culture and you can see that reflected in our performance.
It's a product of our heritage that goes back 9 decades.
This month we're celebrating our 90th anniversary.
Back when we were founded in 1922 few could have imagined or envisioned the idea of intercepting a ballistic missile in space.
It was basically the realm of science fiction.
Today it's a reality.
Certainly many other things have changed since our founding but what is steadfast is Raytheon's consistent focus on excellence in technology and innovation and tackling some of our customers’ really hard problems.
It is what we're known for around the world and why our customers know that they can count on us today and in the future.
I'd like to thank all of those who helped make Raytheon into the company it is today past and present.
Thanks to them and today's world-class team Raytheon remains well positioned for the future.
With that like to turn it over to Dave.
Okay thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with second quarter highlights and then we'll move onto questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
So if everyone could please move to Page 3.
As Bill noted we did perform well in the quarter.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.55 was up 13% driven by continued operational improvement and capital deployment actions.
Adjusted operating margin was 13.6% up 130 basis points compared to last year's second quarter reflecting strong performance across the company.
For the quarter total bookings were $6.2 billion and sales were $6 billion both of which I'll discuss further in just a moment.
We are increasing our full year EPS guidance and cash flow outlook which I'll address further in a few minutes along with other updates for 2012.
During the quarter the company repurchased 4 million shares of common stock for $200 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 11.9 million shares for $600 million.
If you move to Page 4 let me start by providing some detail on our second quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $6.2 billion and on a year-to-date basis were $11.3 billion.
As I mentioned previously we continue to see the order book back-end loaded this year and as a result we expect the book-to-bill to expand.
We estimate a full year book-to-bill range of between roughly 1x and 1.05x.
Notable bookings included $687 million at missile systems for the EKV contract for the Missile Defense Agency.
MS also booked $348 million for Tomahawk for the U.S.
Navy and international customers and $302 million for the production of Standard Missile-6 for the U.S.
Navy.
Technical Services booked $568 million for domestic training and $90 million for foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS program.
Space and Airborne Systems booked $205 million to provide Multi-Spectral Targeting Systems for UAVs to the U.S.
Air Force.
Integrated Defense Systems booked $134 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for an international customer.
And Network Centric Systems booked $90 million on the STARS program for the FAA and $82 million on the Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data System for the U.S.
Army.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $458 million and $462 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Backlog at the end of the second quarter was $33.9 billion compared to $35.3 billion at the end of 2011.
And as Bill mentioned on a funded basis our backlog is up over $600 million from the end of 2011 and up approximately $2.1 billion from the same period last year.
If you now move to Page 5 sales were in line with our expectations.
When we first talked about 2012 we said the sales cadence would improve as we progress through the year in part due to the timing of the international awards that we received in the back half of 2011.
Basically our view of how we see the year playing out hasn't changed.
By business IIS missiles and SAS had sales essentially in line with the same period last year.
IDS had second quarter 2012 net sales of $1.2 billion.
The change from prior year was primarily due to lower volume on a U.S.
Navy program.
NCS performed as expected with net sales of approximately $1 billion.
The change in net sales was primarily due to the planned decline in production of the U.S.
Army programs.
And Technical Services had net sales of $821 million down slightly from the comparable period a year ago primarily due to the completion of the Polar contract in the first quarter of 2012.
Moving ahead to Page 6.
We're pleased by our overall company margin performance.
Once again showing year-over-year increase which is driven by operational improvements.
Our adjusted margin was 13.6% an increase of 130 basis points.
And on a year-to-date basis our adjusted margin was 13.3% up 90 basis points over the comparable period in 2011.
The strength in our underlying margin in the quarter was due to our continued focus on execution.
We benefited from labor overhead and material efficiencies across the company some of which were expected in the back half of this year.
During the second quarter a few of the businesses exceeded our targeted improvements on a number of international programs which we don't see recurring in the second half.
We continue to move forward with our productivity initiatives driven by Six Sigma: rationalizing our supply base improving our direct to indirect ratios finalizing our common business systems implementation reducing our real estate footprint as well as implementing overhead and administrative cost improvements across the company.
These actions continue to drive value for our shareholders and our customers.
So looking at margins by business.
IDS IIS missiles SAS and Technical Services margins were all up in the quarter compared to the same period last year.
At NCS the change in operating margin in the second quarter of 2012 compared to second quarter of 2011 was primarily due to a change in contract mix.
NCS margins in the second quarter were in line with our expectations for the year.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
So if you'd now move to Page 7.
Second quarter 2012 adjusted earnings per share was $1.55 up 13%.
The increase was driven by operational improvements and capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases.
And on a year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $3.01 up 10% from the same period last year.
On Page 8 you'll note that we raised our full year 2012 EPS guidance by $0.15 to a range of between $5.15 and $5.30 and on an adjusted basis to a range of between $5.70 and $5.85.
About 2/3 of the increase is driven by the performance improvements in the business that I spoke about a moment ago and a little less than 1/3 is due to the recently passed pension legislation.
We repurchased 4 million shares of common stock for $200 million in the quarter and have now narrowed our diluted share guidance for the year.
And as I discussed a few minutes ago we've increased our 2012 guidance for operating cash flow from continuing operations by $100 million to between $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion due to the recently passed pension legislation.
The new law will not have an impact on our 2012 FAS/CAS expense.
In addition we continue to see the cadence of cash generation weighted to the back half of the year.
Essentially our view of the cadence of cash flow from operations for the year hasn't changed.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've included the change in our guidance by business.
The increase in margin guidance at IDS and SAS reflects solid overall program performance.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales earnings per share and operating cash flow from continuing operations for the balance of 2012.
I'd like to take a minute to touch on how we're preparing for the future here at Raytheon.
Technology and innovation along with our people continue to be our cornerstone and these are areas where we continue to make the right investments.
Some good examples of this are RMS's factory of the future in Tucson and a new all-up round facility in Huntsville both of which should improve production efficiency and quality.
In addition our new cyber center which we call the code center has come online in the Washington DC area.
It incorporates our latest cyber technologies to better serve our customer needs across the company.
We continue to directly invest in R&amp;D in such areas as multi-function wideband systems pulse weapons automatic target recognition smaller and more precise missiles resilient networks and cyber products just by way of example.
Before we open it up for questions let me summarize.
We saw solid performance in the second quarter and it exceeded the EPS and margin guidance we provided back in April even as the environment remains challenging.
Our book to bill was above 1 and our sales were in line with expectation.
As we look to the balance of the year the pipeline of international and domestic opportunities remains robust.
We continue to move ahead with our efficiency initiatives and are confident at our outlook for the year.
With that Bill and I will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to get a little color if you wouldn't mind David just on the cumulative adjustments in the -- for performance in the quarter what are you going to disclose in your Q? And is there anything you're going to call out in particular in terms of programs? And whatever you can tell us about IDS in particular would be helpful.
Okay so right.
The Q will have all the disclosure that you just suggested.
The EAC adjustments I think this is what you're getting at in the second quarter were about $175 million a little under a $60 million improvement from the second quarter last year.
That was driven by a couple of key factors but there's obviously a multitude of adjustments given our 8 000 programs and 15 000 contracts.
From a missile systems standpoint they improved about $21 million as the result of improvements in a land combat systems program.
There was also material and other cost efficiencies in the international tactical radar product area at SAS.
On a year-to-date basis the EAC adjustments amount to about 2.6% of revenue.
So in general we run about 2% to 2.5% of EAC adjustments relative to sales that's been the historical pattern over the last 4 or 5 years.
The first half was on the higher end of the range.
We do expect it to be lower in the back half.
That's primarily driven by the acceleration of cost efficiencies that I mentioned earlier much of these were originally planned for the back half of the year.
I do want to point out something else on the margin profile because it's driven by a number of different factors.
You have the mix of programs meaning the stage of completion international versus domestic development versus production and fixed price versus cost by contract.
So if you're looking at the margin going forward you need to consider all of these factors.
From a business perspective the opportunities are weighted toward our production and international programs over our cost and service type programs.
So a way to think about this might be if you look at Technical Services or IIS these businesses have a higher mix of cost and service programs so they don't offer the same level of opportunities as some of the other businesses.
Now for IDS specifically the strength of the second quarter margins were due to continued focus on execution again some of which we had expected in the third and fourth quarters.
We also achieved better-than-expected results on a few performance milestones.
IDS did exceed our internal performance targets on some international programs and again we don't see this recurring in the back half of the year.
Given the order book particularly in the international area we do see stronger volume from IDS and continued solid performance particularly from factory operations.
The next question comes from the line of Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about international orders for the year and what you see as the timing over the next 2 quarters? And then related to that Bill you talked about Farnborough in some of the international discussions you had could you talk about what you're hearing with respect to events in the Middle East and how that might affect demand for different capabilities that you have now? Sure be happy to.
I'll run through a few international.
Notification on Kuwait is taking place as we speak.
We expect approval of that by the end of August.
Kuwait will be for 2 to 4 fire units roughly.
We're figuring the first tranche at about $1 billion there.
Turkey because of what's going on in Syria and so forth was supposed to have their decision this summer.
It looks like it'll be at the latter part of this year so we expect to hear their decision now at the latter part of Q4.
Oman will be purchasing a ground-based system that’ll probably be in $1.5 billion range.
We expect that Q4 time frame maybe Q1.
We have precision munitions in the category of Paveway we expect about $500 million cumulative in Q4 there.
Air traffic control radar is probably $200 million to $300 million between now and the end of the year.
We expect missiles TOW SM and the other things we build probably around $500 million plus or minus $100 million for that.
Training in the $150 million to $200 million.
And international C4I we finished negotiations in an area there and we expect that one to probably be in the Q3 early Q4 time frame.
So as you can see a rich pipeline there.
The airshow was interesting for us it was a great opportunity for me.
I always call it a target rich environment because all our customers are there and you get to spend time with them in a different kind of atmosphere and talk about some of their problems.
Clearly for the Mideast missile-defense is important whether you look at Saudi UAE Qatar Oman those are all areas for us that have interest in providing air defense for a number of reasons given the issues they have in that part of the world.
You didn't mention the Pacific Rim that's also very active for us when you look at the threats that they have and various countries either trying to disrupt navigation or control navigation on the seas there.
So that has an effect internationally.
It also has an effect domestically as people try and think about keeping the United States out of the shipping lines.
So for us we look at both of those areas and what they were talking to us about right in our wheelhouse.
And they come to us to help them provide full solutions not just products.
So that's one of our strengths.
So I felt very good about the airshow this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> As you look at this I mean these issues have been there for some time I'm just curious.
The discussions you're having now have you seen any change in the last 6 months? Yes.
I would say the changes were pulling out of Iraq Afghanistan.
So the U.S.
has had a big presence there for the last what 10 years.
And if the U.S.
is pulling out then various countries realize that they have to do more and I think they're thinking about that and taking action very seriously.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill you've talked about the challenging environment you talked about international a little bit.
Can you sort of talk about how else you've changed the aperture of the company? And also can you discuss how you are going to be able to take advantage of sort of these I'll call it lower cost efficiencies going forward so that you share fairly with your customer as opposed to give it all back? Yes.
I think Howard I'd describe it in a number of ways.
It really -- I think your question goes to the heart of sequestration and we've got 5 months to avoid it between today and first part of January.
We’ve spent time assessing the various outcomes that could take place where the cuts would come from.
When you look at all of that for us I think I've said it before I'm not in charge of the administration I'm not in charge of Congress but what we all are in charge of here is our own destiny.
So how do we make sure our program performance is flawless? How do we shorten our timelines? How do we reduce our costs? How do we keep our focus on companywide productivity and efficiency? And we do it across the board.
I think Dave done a nice rundown or summary of that from our design activity to supply chain to our factories.
And for that that makes us better.
We compete every day and for us we believe we have to do that in best value which means our technology and innovation has to be the best.
But we also have to have the right cost structure.
And what I learned from the '90s is you need to get ahead of that and I think that's what we're doing.
And from that standpoint the department will either take 3 courses of action when they do this: They'll take a peanut butter approach they might have a programmatic plus peanut butter or they might be able to do it on a project basis.
The one thing I know the Secretary of Defense needs all the flexibility he can have because his strategy matches the funds the way they are today.
So if you go and take out more money then the strategy doesn't match the funds and it creates a problem for him and he needs flexibility.
For us that'll happen in '13.
When you go to '14 it will become discrete again.
They'll do it at the program level rather than at the R1s and P1s on a percentage basis.
And from there we'll know where our customers are headed.
We believe they're going to be headed in the areas that the Secretary always outlines for us which is the ISR world missile-defense EW command and control and support.
While at the same time I think what's important is that we are continue to invest.
We are probably the largest CRAD house in the country.
That's part of the fuel that goes into our engine of technology.
And every quarter we get new things like the air-soldier-personal-electronics computer and display system we won that.
So helicopter pilots and others will get information right to the source.
Programs one I thought you'd pick up on with the MORPHINATOR which has probably got the best name yet it'll get voted this year.
But that gives us the cyber technology to be able to address the Internet Protocol with hopping in the Battlefield so it keeps people from understanding what we're trying to do.
Those are the things I think from our standpoint that if I was a sailor our ditty bag has a lot of programs and technology in there.
That this is a cyclic business.
When it comes out of this cycle you want to be lean mean and to have things and tools available to you.
Probably the most important and this is a long answer but it's a thoughtful question.
Is that one thing that we learned from the '90s and I learned it oh so well is when the cuts come the plants or facilities where you want the work doesn't have it and the places where you're not as good gets the work and then you can never balance your workloads.
Here as you know and others know our business systems allow us to win anywhere design anywhere produce anywhere.
And that's the real key.
When you go to the future do you have the ability and the agility and do you have speed? And speed is something we're working on.
We're not there in my opinion and we're trying to get there every day.
That will help us adjust to that environment better than anybody else.
Okay did I get it? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well we -- it was a little different from what I had wanted but...
Well what'd you want me to say? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well no it's not what I want you to say.
I mean the only pushback I have is these are terrific margins today maybe just a little bit differently.
They're terrific margins today and if you can deliver a 1.05 book-to-bill are we kind of seeing that you're being able to position yourself to grow a little bit of the business putting aside the sequester issue so that you could actually show improvements all-in as we look out rather than hit a wall? Yes.
Howard I don't think we're hitting a wall if that's the question.
And from our standpoint when I went through the international that gives us opportunities.
We still have to work hard manage the programs.
As you know and others know international always has risk and the way you perform is to retire the risk.
I think this company does very good at that given our large international base and given our returns.
So one thing I got out of Farnborough that I can -- that I took home is that our customers are confident when they do business with us we are going to deliver and give them the product they want.
That kind of confidence and that kind of trust and respect you can't buy.
The next question comes from the line of George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
LLC</strong> Dave I got my usual couple of questions here.
What was the international growth year-over-year in the quarter? The classified growth and how much did classified account for sales? And then what happened to domestic? So look from a domestic and foreign standpoint we said this early on that we are weighted to the back half of the year and we're continuing to track to that pace and cadence.
In the second quarter international sales were down about 5% again as expected given the ramp up of the international orders that we received in the back half of '11.
So again it is in line with what we had talked about on previous earnings calls.
From a domestic standpoint we were down about 2.5% on the quarter.
So on the first half the company is down about 3% in sales.
Now moving forward domestic we expect in the back half of the year to be about break even plus or minus 2%.
And from an international standpoint we see sales growth of 8% to 12%.
This was mentioned just a moment ago we do see the book-to-bill for the year from a company perspective to be between about 1 and 1.05.
International as a subset of that will be about 1.1 to 1.17.
So again we do see continued growth from an international perspective and domestic continues to perform fine.
Dave let me jump in here a little bit to provide a year-end.
We expect international bookings to be 28% to 30% for the year and the sales as Dave mentioned to be around 26% which means the volume will be up about 3% to 5%.
And on the classified side so far this year bookings have been running about 21%.
We expect the year to be around 15% but we expect the growth in classified to be about 20%.
So we're feeling pretty good about the classified side of the business.
LLC</strong> And the classified in the second quarter was that up also about this 20% you're expecting for the year? Now George from just a pure sales standpoint the classified was down about 2.5% in line with the other domestic business.
But again we expect that to pick up in the back half of the year.
We booked just under $1 billion in classified sales at 2 businesses in the second quarter so again that business continues to remain healthy.
And the next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave I wanted to spend a few minutes on pension if you wouldn't mind.
I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that perhaps as much as 1/3 of the EPS guide up was related to pension.
So I was wondering if you could provide a bit more detail on that.
And then the second question also on pension is just some commentary from you around CAS Harmonization the ruling went into effect at the end of last year.
We've got since February 27 the ability of the industry to begin passing on higher rates to the government.
So I was wondering if you could just give us an update on how that process is working for you and whether you're passing those higher CAS comps on and everything is going as planned.
Sure.
So in 2012 the FAS/CAS adjustment is expected to be just under $285 million.
Looking further out there are a number of variables that impact the adjustment and the funding requirements.
As you know these include the discount rate the return on assets and some other actuarial assumptions and the new CAS harmonization rules as well as the new pension funding stabilization law.
So while the discount rate environment is currently lower than it was at the end of 2011 our -- the FAS/CAS is not adjusted for 2012 and it's difficult at this point to predict how that plays out in 2013.
As a general rule of thumb for Raytheon every 25 basis point change in the discount rate has roughly a $60 million impact on the FAS/CAS adjustment.
It's probably important to note as well that the re-timed contribution levels resulting from the Pension Funding Stabilization Law do increase the FAS/CAS expense adjustment by between $60 million and $80 million.
But again a lot of these variables other variables have to be considered when you're projecting that out.
So let me just get a little more specific.
Like I said a moment ago the 2012 FAS/CAS adjustment doesn't change.
For 2013 given the 8.75% return on asset assumption as well as a 5% discount rate assumption we see the FAS/CAS adjustment going from what we had projected before at about $45 million to just over $100 million.
And it's difficult to predict after that at this point.
Again this will all be subject to change as we close out the year.
From a cash standpoint these are essentially re-timed contributions into the pension plan.
On a gross level that impacted the contributions by roughly $500 million in '12 and about $400 million in '13.
After you take into account the contract reimbursement and tax impact of those contributions it impacts the company from a cash flow standpoint of about $100 million in 2012 and about $300 million next year.
Lastly you asked about CAS harmonization that impacts us favorably by about $200 million in 2014 and improves from there over the next few years 2015 '16 '17.
We are continuing to focus on our cost efficiencies and productivity.
I spoke about that earlier Bill addressed it earlier and we will remain very competitive from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that this year's EPS guidance 1/3 was related to pension? I'm not sure that I caught exactly how that might be.
Well yes there's a -- from the tax standpoint the cap on the domestic manufacturing deduction is adjusted as a result of the pension contributions.
Following that the tax posture from the company was improved.
The next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about one of the businesses in particular which is SAS in terms of just what's going on that's different there in that you saw year-over-year growth there where everybody else has been declining? And the margins are coming in well ahead and really why should they soften as we go into next year? And they also had a nice increase in orders as well so just talk a little bit about what's happening at SAS.
Well sure.
This is actually something we've been talking about for a while.
The demand for our international tactical radar programs continues to be strong and there is increasing demand for the ISR sensors that support the growing requirements for full motion video in theater.
So the product lineup at SAS is healthy across-the-board.
The classified business continues to be strong.
And from an operational perspective Rick Hughes and the team out there continue to do an excellent job from a contract execution standpoint.
There's nothing new from a perspective of where we were seeing the business about 6 months ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up Dave you've talked about that we were going to see a moderation in the buyback activity as the year progressed.
Is this a good run rate that you're comfortable with for the remainder of the year or do we see it step down further as we start to head into the risk of a CR and the sequestration? So we've updated our full year diluted share count guidance.
I'd rather not get specific on the dollar spend on buyback.
I think what's important is that we continue to have an overall balanced capital deployment strategy.
Bill and I see that as the best approach for driving shareholder value over the long term.
We do continue to see strong cash flow.
We've performed well historically.
If you look at the 2-year average we're still about $2 billion a year from an operating cash flow generation standpoint on a normalized basis.
And we continue to invest in all the right areas from a company perspective.
It's probably worth noting again that we did increase the dividend in the first quarter 16% and that was our eighth consecutive dividend increase here at Raytheon.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned allusion to what happened to the early '90s in the last defense expansion.
We saw quite a lot of defense consolidation in that period.
I was wondering if you were seeing other people maybe in a distressed situation looking to sell at this stage whether you might be interested in picking up something? For us our M&amp;A strategy has been about the same.
We continue to pursue targets that -- technologies that augment our strategic position and we continue to pursue this strategy.
For us we think it's the best one for shareholders.
The difference between now and the '90s is the '90s had a lot of consolidation at the top and our customers have been pretty explicit on what they expect on the top.
The mid-tier and lower tier there hasn't been a -- I think your question is more on the reflection of the prices and what's out there.
I think most companies still view that they have beachfront property and that it hasn't moved into suburban property yet.
The next question comes from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on DDG 1000? I think you guys had talked about it coming down pretty significantly this year but then ramping back up in '13 and '14? Is that how things still look? Yes I think so.
The -- we're working with the Navy now to finish out the third ship and get that under contract.
I think that the good news is the lead ship is doing well.
The software the hardware at least from our end has come together nicely.
And up at the shipyard they're making progress building this for ship and all of us associated with it feel pretty good about where it's going.
We think it's a game changer.
What people need to remember is the manpower on this ship is about 1/3 of what we're using today.
So in a constrained environment having a ship that operates with 150 personnel plus or minus a few and has the capabilities of the DDG 1000 is a good thing.
And so we can't wait for it to get in the water and do its thing.
And the new CNO has spoken very highly about this ship given what the environment we're staring into.
The -- no change in plans other than we see a reaffirmation of what we told you by the actions of the Navy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry so up $100 million to $200 million for the program the next couple years? From where we are in '12 I would say if you look at it over a 3-year period that's about right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up Dave in terms of -- you have this slide where you break out sales and EPS expectations by quarter.
Could you specifically comment on the fourth quarter? Obviously you're talking about sales bouncing back there I know the comp's easy but then it looks like you're implying a pretty low margin in the fourth quarter.
Is there anything special that's going on in the fourth quarter that would see margins drop off as far as what you're implying? No it's really addressed with the timing of these cost improvement actions that we had talked about.
When we began the year we had scheduled some of these to be completed as we closed out 2012 and we were able to pull those forward into the front half of the year.
So there's nothing remarkable going on from an operational standpoint and it's really timing within the 4 quarters.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Spingarn Credit Suisse North America.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
Bill if I could throw one to you and then one for Dave.
I think the Secretary Secretary Panetta met with industry leadership on Monday.
Did he have a message on a 1-year sequestered delay? Meaning that is he in fact looking to shift toward near-term relief in lieu of a compromise on the more difficult to negotiate 10-year plan? I think he outlined a number of scenarios.
One of those scenarios could be could we take the time depending on what happens in November to be able to think through this issue? And one way to do that is to pay down part of the first year.
If you pay down part of the first year that buys you 12 months.
The Secretary would like a couple years to be able to redo the strategy to fit into the funding that this is what we're going to go do.
The problem is that -- and I'll say it this way sequester is self-imposed.
We put this crisis on ourselves.
It's not a natural disaster something that happened.
We picked a date and we picked a process that was horrible to both sides.
What people haven't written about is what happens outside of DoD? What happens to Education or Labor or the State Department or the other agencies in the government and people have not realized that in aerospace we'll probably affect about 2 million jobs out there; our own plus jobs that have the multipliers.
Our economy doesn't need another reset just when we're trying to get through this.
So the Secretary's philosophy is is that we need the time to go through this thing 24 months would be nice but if we could do 12 months that gives us the time and let's buy down part of the requirement early.
So he just outlaid the various options and reiterated that this affects the industrial base as well as affecting the department.
Both of them are outcomes that he doesn't want because the strategy that we have today he can do what he's been asked to do.
You take $55 billion out that gets split.
The way it's defined it affects him and affects others and we need to think through this horrible thing that we've done with sequester.
Research Division</strong> Was there any sense that this other approach is getting any traction? Yes.
If you go to Washington and you talk to the leadership my take is the preponderance if not all don't want this to happen.
The real problem is is when you ask what the solution is you don't get it.
But I think more and more people are thinking through can we get to the $1.2 trillion or $1.4 trillion? If we can't get there can we at least get to the first year and buy it down and give us some time to think about it.
And the hard part is is come November people aren't sure about the results.
And so that kind of keeps everybody from doing something.
And then if you think of the period between November and January there aren't that many working days in Congress and what's on their plate is a full year's worth of work that has to be done in 18 or 20 days.
So the probability of that happening isn't there.
And so my opinion we're going to see a CR.
CR will probably be like last year's CR at least that's the way we planned for it.
But within that CR they could do things in an ominous bill that could take down and pay down the first year's worth of savings that are needed.
So it's still a jump ball.
I wish I could tell you the answer.
All I can tell you is the discussions are more along the line that nobody wants it to happen but I can't give you the solution.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the CR comment leads me into the question for Dave which is -- and this came up in a prior question which is there's a lot happening here in the back end of the year.
You've got potentially fewer days but a lot of cash flow coming and if you could speak to that is there any risk here that cash has difficulty flowing out of the Pentagon and receivables billed? And if you could speak specifically to your revenue guidance on MTS? Because given the army pressure I'm wondering how that recovers so that you get better than half your sales in the back end of the year.
Okay.
From a cash standpoint we are confident with the guidance we provided this morning.
We continue to work very well with the customer and I don't see any meaningful risk from a cash flow guidance perspective for the back half of the year.
NCS is performing fine.
We do have expectations for the back half of the year with respect to international bookings as well as domestic.
Some of the international specifics Bill spoke to earlier there's a C4I program that's currently being finalized and we expect that award here in the near term.
There's virtual simulation programs that we've discussed and some other Homeland Security programs.
The book-to-bill and this is important we expect to be in the range of 1.05 to 1.1.
Again we remain confident with the guidance for NCS a strong leadership there from Dan Crowley and we from an overall company perspective are very comfortable with what we addressed earlier today.
The next question comes from the line of Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dave first a clarification question and you answered a pension question pretty fully but just wanted a kind of a detailed clarification.
The December or January slide you put out had about $1.5 billion of required pension contribution for the '13 and '14 each what happened to that as the result of the Transportation Bill? Okay.
So the -- it's difficult to speak beyond '13.
But from a gross basis the contributions came down in '12 by about just under $500 million and just under $400 million or say around $400 million for '13.
It's probably more important to see how that ultimately impacts the company.
So when you take the contract reimbursement and the after-tax basis of the contributions the shift is an improvement of about $100 million in cash flow for 2012 and $300 million in cash flow for 2013.
So just one more note here pension contributions from a tax standpoint are on a different timeframe so you address 2013 pension contributions that are made through September in your 2012 tax return.
Research Division</strong> See and I thought that was a straightforward clarification.
No that's a good answer.
Bill the real question for you is on the planning that the DoD would do as they look to submit their essentially their initial comps to OMB for passback.
I mean what kind of scenarios are they going to get from OMB? And what kind of trial balloons rhetoric do you expect to have to deal with over the next 3 to 6 months? Or are they simply not going to plan the -- see the sequestration as a scenario? OMB has basically stated I think that they are not going to provide guidance till after the election.
So for us we're going to be in I guess you might call it the Never-Never Land and have to react to the press of what's written on this subject.
But until there's guidance from OMB in the interpretation of the law then it makes it really hard.
So from our standpoint we've read the law the Budget Control Act.
The Budget Control Act actually goes back to 1985 for those of us that have been around that long to Gramm-Rudman to when that was implemented.
And if you look at it it basically says that at the controllable level at the R1s and P1s there's probably 2 500 programs that are controllable.
After that stage it probably -- the department has discretion but that's my opinion that's not OMB's opinion.
So when you look at it that's why I said it's probably a combination of a percentage cut and then it's discrete after that.
But that's Bill Swanson's opinion and OMB will tell OSD what to do.
What I think people lose sight of and this is also my opinion this is not a DoD issue.
This is a federal issue.
It's a federal issue in a sense that it affects all the government and the cuts come out of the entire government.
DoD is just more active because they do and have a real budgeting process that goes through this because the size and the nature of labor and material that they control.
And other agencies don't have material they have labor.
So the cuts will have to be interpreted in how they do it.
So it is a complicated problem and my bottom line answer is I don't expect anything on guidance till after the election.
That's why I think the Hill is talking more about what did they do and do we buy some time here so we can think through this if that helps.
Okay.
Thank you.
We're going to have to leave it there.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our third quarter conference call in October.
Deanna? Yes.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you again for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
The results we announce this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I would like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report another solid quarter.
Our operating margin EPS and cash flow were above expectation.
Overall the businesses executed well in the quarter.
We remain focused on reducing our costs improving our productivity and delivering innovative affordable solutions to our global customers.
As we said on the last call we expected bookings to ramp up in the last half of the year and our third quarter orders came in strong at $7.3 billion.
Notable awards included more than $1.2 billion for the Standard Missile-3 which follows on 2 successful intercepts that we had in the second quarter.
Our classified book-to-bill was approximately 1.2 and has been above 1 every quarter this year.
We also received significant awards for domestic and international training.
In addition I'd like to highlight one of Raytheon's core market areas C3I or command control communications and intelligence.
Within this area we're a leading provider of strategic communication terminals.
We currently are providing the Navy Multiband Terminal or NMT for the Navy as well as the Secure Mobile Anti-Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal also known as SMART-T to the U.S.
Army.
Adding to our success in this area during the quarter we are awarded a $70 million competitive development contract for the FAB-T program.
This is a significant effort and it enhances our secure communications position within the U.S.
Air Force as well.
FAB-T will allow communications between military aircraft ground sites and the new higher data rate satellites and like the systems for the Navy and the Army it will allow secure protected communications for our customers' most sensitive missions.
Also during the quarter the Air Force awarded us a steady contract to help define the next generation of tactical protected SATCOM systems.
These wins plus our existing franchise positions us well for the future.
Our international pipeline is strong with Kuwait Patriot completing the congressional approval process in late August and we expect to book an award by the end of the year.
Other international opportunities are proceeding through the process including a large precision munitions award a C4I system a Rolling Airframe Missile and just -- these are just a few among many others that we are pursuing in the fourth quarter.
Over the past years we've pursued a strategy of growing our international business and I'm encouraged and pleased by the increasing number of international opportunities for the company.
At the same time as we know the timing of international awards is always a factor.
It's the nature of the business.
The bottom line is for 2012 combining our strong domestic orders and our substantial international opportunities.
We remain confident about achieving the $25 billion plus or minus $500 million booking objective we set in January of this year.
At the end of the third quarter congress passed a continuing resolution for the fiscal 2013 defense budget that runs through the end of March next year.
They've become a way of life essentially in this fiscal environment.
This one is a little different in that it extends past the January 2 sequestration implementation date.
While the CR does not preempt sequestration it does provide a mechanism for continued funding through the end of March should sequestration be delayed.
Although we continue to believe a resolution could occur after the election we're planning for a variety of potential outcomes.
As you've heard me say on prior calls we're focused on the things we can control.
This includes operating the business as efficiently as possible and delivering value for our customers and our shareholders regardless of whether sequestration happens or not.
We believe that Raytheon's large international market presence portfolio of programs technology and focus on high-priority areas should help to mitigate some of the potential overall impact the sequestration has implemented.
Importantly over the past several years we've made the investments in common systems and infrastructure across the entire company.
This enables us to be more agile.
We can more effectively balance workloads.
We can win work anywhere design it anywhere and build it anywhere across the company.
This allows us to respond quickly in this dynamic budget environment that we're currently experiencing.
I'd like to thank the Raytheon team for their hard work and dedication.
In an environment marked by higher-than-normal level of complexity and uncertainty the team has remained focused and has executed well.
We're prepared for the future and stand ready to continue to deliver value to our customers and our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the third quarter highlights and then we'll be move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
Okay if everyone could please move to Page 3.
As Bill noted we reported solid operating results in the third quarter.
The company had strong bookings in the quarter of $7.3 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.21.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.60 was up 15% driven by continued operational improvement and capital deployment actions.
Adjusted operating margin was 13.8% up 80 basis points compared to last year's third quarter reflecting strong performance for the company.
Sales were $6 billion in the quarter down slightly from last year's third quarter.
We delivered strong operating cash flow from continuing operations of $1.1 billion better than expected and primarily driven by the timing of collections.
We've updated our full year 2012 guidance which I'll address further in a few minutes.
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $125 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 14.1 million shares for $725 million.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me start by providing some detail on our third quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $7.3 billion and on a year-to-date basis were $18.6 billion representing a year-to-date book-to-bill ratio of 1.04.
We continue to see our book-to-bill range for the full year 2012 of between roughly 1 and 1.05x.
Notable bookings in the third quarter included $1.2 billion of missile systems for SM-3 for the Missile Defense Agency.
MS also booked $350 million on a multi-year TOW missile contract for the U.S.
Army and Marines $101 million for Phalanx Weapon System for the U.S.
Navy and an international customer and $87 million for MALD our Miniature Air-Launch Decoy for the U.S.
Air Force.
Technical Services booked $246 million for work on the Air Traffic Controller Training contract ATCOTS for the FAA.
CS also booked $252 million and $137 million respectively for domestic and foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS Program.
Intelligence and Information Systems booked $170 million on a contract to provide intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance support to the U.S.
Air Force.
Integrated Defense Systems won a competitive award of $123 million for the upgraded Early Warning Radar System for the MDA and the U.S.
Air Force.
IDS also booked $84 million to support air and missile defense capability for the U.S.
Army.
And as Bill just highlighted Network Centric Systems received a $70 million award for the Family of Advanced Beyond Line of Sight Terminals program for the U.S.
Air Force a key competitive win for the Raytheon team that positions us well to address the Air Force's need for secure protected communication by leveraging proven technology that we've also provided to the Army and Navy.
IIS and SAS booked $559 million and $382 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Backlog at the end of the third quarter was $35 billion compared to $35.3 billion at the end of 2011.
On a funded basis our backlog is up over $400 million from the end of 2011 and up approximately $1.2 billion from the same period last year.
If you'd now move to Page 5.
Sales were slightly below last year's third quarter.
By business IIS missiles and SAS had sales essentially in line with the comparable period last year.
IDS had third quarter 2012 net sales of $1.3 billion an increase of 8% on a year-over-year basis.
The increase from prior year is primarily due to stronger international sales on Patriot programs and the TPY-2 radars.
Technical Services had net sales of $785 million down a little more than $30 million from the comparable period a year ago due to the completion of the polar contract in the first quarter of 2012.
NCS had net sales of $963 million in the quarter.
The 13% decrease in net sales was primarily due to the decline of some U.S.
Army production programs.
Some international programs which we had expected to book earlier in the year have moved to the right and we have updated our guidance accordingly.
It's notable that NCS' book-to-bill was greater than 1 in the last 2 quarters driven by both domestic and international orders.
For the full year the business is expected to achieve a book-to-bill of between 1.1 and 1.5x.
Moving ahead to Page 6.
We're pleased with the overall company operating margin.
The year-over-year improvement was driven by operational performance.
Our adjusted margin was 13.8% an increase of 80 basis points.
On a year-to-date basis our adjusted margin was 13.5% up 90 basis points over the comparable period in 2011.
The strength in our company margins is the result of our planning process including our continued focus on improving productivity strong execution across the company and contract mix.
We are realizing the benefits from reduced cost in our administrative functions improved efficiencies in our factories and increasing value from the implementation of strategic supply chain initiatives.
As we have said in the past Raytheon's Six Sigma efforts are driving tangible results for the company.
So looking at business margins.
Several international Patriot programs including Taiwan and Saudi and an international missile defense radar program have now moved into full-rate production at IDS and they are executing well.
The favorable performance on these programs is being driven partially by the benefits realized from the economies and efficiencies of increased volume flowing through the factory.
This along with a change in mix has favorably impacted the IDS margins.
Missiles and SAS margins were up in the quarter compared to the same period last year.
Solid overall program performance drove improvements at both businesses as well as favorable mix at SAS.
NCS delivered solid margins in the third quarter of 2012 but were lower compared to the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to a change in mix driven by higher net sales on long-term production programs last year and as we have already discussed the timing of international awards.
And the Technical Services' third quarter 2011 operating margins benefited from efficiencies realized on some programs that completed last year.
So overall the company continues to perform well.
Turning now to Page 7.
Third quarter 2012 adjusted EPS was $1.60 up 15%.
The increase was driven by operational improvements and capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases.
And on a year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $4.61 up 12% from the same period last year.
If you could please move to Page 8.
I'd like to briefly comment on our updated outlook for 2012.
We've lowered and narrowed the range for full year 2012 net sales primarily due to the timing of awards at NCS.
We now expect sales to be in the range of between $24.3 billion and $24.7 billion.
As we have done in past years during the third quarter we updated our actuarial estimates related to our pension plans.
As a result of the update FAS/CAS pension expense for the year decreased by $32 million from $284 million to $252 million.
We increased our adjusted EPS guidance for the year by $0.10 to reflect the strong performance through the end of the third quarter.
We see adjusted EPS of between $5.85 and $5.95.
You should note that we also increased our 2012 guidance for GAAP EPS to between $5.36 and $5.46 which includes the expected margin improvement for the year as well as the updated full year FAS/CAS pension expense.
As I mentioned earlier we generated strong operating cash flow in the quarter which is primarily the result of timing of collections.
A portion of this is expected to increase our cash flow for the year.
As a result we've increase our 2012 guidance for operating cash flow from continuing operations by $100 million to between $1.8 billion and $2 billion.
Overall our updated outlook for 2012 reflects our ability to drive results through performance improvements.
If you move to Page 9.
I'll discuss some detail on our full year guidance for 2012 by business.
So let me start with sales.
We've increased the IDS full year sales outlook by $100 million as a result of strong growth in international programs.
We tightened the full year sales range for IIS missiles and SAS.
We also lowered and tightened NCS' full year sales range to reflect the timing of new international awards and TSS' full year sales range due to delays on domestic training and logistics programs.
Now turning to margins.
We've increased the range and expect higher full year operating margin performance for IDS IIS missiles SAS and Technical Services.
The strong year-to-date results exceeded our prior estimates.
We lowered the range of our full year operating margin guidance for NCS driven by a change in mix due to delays in a few international awards one of which we expect to receive in the fourth quarter.
You should be aware that the fourth quarter outlook also includes costs related to potentially terminating a supplier agreement.
From an overall standpoint Raytheon remains well positioned going forward.
We continue to invest in critical technologies.
We relentlessly focus on execution and we have a broad and balanced portfolio of programs.
We will continue to improve productivity and deliver value to our customers and shareholders.
Now turning to next year.
As we did last year we intend to provide 2013 guidance on our fourth quarter earnings call in January.
So if you could please move to Page 10 we have provided a FAS/CAS pension adjustment matrix for 2013 as we've done in prior years.
And just to be clear the discount rate and the actual asset returns won't be known until we close out 2012.
It is worth noting that given the current interest rate environment with discount rates at historical lows today we expect to see improvement to the FAS/CAS pension expense in 2014 and beyond assuming even a modest increase in rates in the future.
Before we open it up for Q&amp;A let me summarize.
We had a solid third quarter and exceeded the operating margin EPS and cash flow guidance we provided back in July.
Our book-to-bill was 1.2 or put another way our bookings exceeded our sales by 20% once again highlighting how our innovative and affordable solutions are aligned with our global customer priorities and providing a solid foundation for the future.
We continue to move ahead with our efficiency initiatives which importantly have provided savings for our customers and driven solid financial performance for the company.
We are confident in our outlook for the year.
With that Bill and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to start out -- I hear you on the international items and thanks for the detail you gave there.
So wondering if you guys have formally adjusted your expectations of the components of those bookings for the year or if you're just kind of sticking with what you have so far since you're keeping your overall number.
And then also Bill just any color you can give on the hold up? Is this end-market related? Or is this the FMS process in Washington that's holding it up et cetera? Yes Joe.
Let me try and frame it first from the top.
We still expect bookings to be in around the 25% to 28% of our total bookings.
So from our standpoint we feel pretty good that what we said we were going to do in January we're doing.
The good part on the international is no cancellations and we're just being cautious as we look at the market getting into it.
We said the back half of the year was where our activity was going to be and we brought in over $7 billion worth of bookings and we expect Q4 to be strong.
Maybe what I should do is give you some color the way I think about it if I look at the Q4 bookings.
We expect IDS to bring in about $2.5 billion worth of bookings.
60% of that is international.
Kuwait Patriot will drive that.
We have a congressional notification that's been approved.
That total award is in the $1.2 billion range but we probably expect $750 million to $800 million in that because they'll buy the fire units first and then they'll go to buy the spares and the services shortly thereafter.
The balance of what they're going to bring in is domestic orders.
Those are mainly in the naval area and they've got a few other international contracts there.
IIS will bring in about $750 million.
These are all plus or minus a little and they're mainly in the classified area.
If I think about missiles they have bookings of around $1 billion; 2/3 of what they're going to bring in is international.
The largest there is a munition program Paveway.
We expect to get that approval and we expect it to happen and the balance will be domestic.
In NCS our bookings there will be about $1.5 billion.
As Dave mentioned we've signed and expect the customer to sign momentarily an award and are probably around $600 million to $700 million in that range and the balance there will be domestically as we look at it.
SAS we expect bookings there of about $1 billion.
About 60% of those are international and the biggest piece is related to Tactical Airborne radars.
Classified probably a couple hundred million there.
And TS bookings we estimate around $300 million and that'll be in training and logistics program about 60% of those internationally.
So overall we see a strong Q4 bookings around $6 billion to $7 billion.
And from our standpoint over half of those will be international.
I think that gives you a pretty good color of what we're trying to do and to finish out the year.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful Bill.
Just any color on the FMS process and if that's creating any delays or it's normal? Yes it's -- there's a little bit of a delay there.
I mean we have to go through the congressional notification process.
Things are moving.
I'm not pointing any fingers at anything but we'd sure like the process to be quicker if we could move them.
These are international sales.
They're good jobs here domestically and we'd like to keep pushing as hard as we can but we are in an election year and we kind of looked at this at the beginning of the year and knew something would happen but we're getting great support out of the building and people are trying here but it's taken us just a little bit longer.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
One I noticed that the share repurchase was a little bit less in Q3 than you'd done earlier in the year at least it looked like that.
Was there any just sort of conservatism given the budget uncertainty that we're dealing with as we head into the back half of the last quarter of the year? And with sequestration sitting there next year did that weigh on your share purchases in the quarter? So back in January Carter we had talked about moderating our share repurchases for 2012 going forward relative to prior years.
So frankly we're executing along those lines and the way the cadence has played out was something that we had essentially anticipated back in January.
I think importantly we feel very good about the cash flow generation both on the quarter and year-to-date.
And I think it's worth noting that we've increased our guidance to between $1.8 billion and $2 billion of cash on the year.
Research Division</strong> Great that's what I recalled.
I just wanted to make sure there was no sort of difference in message.
And the second question Dave is one of -- a more mechanical one.
We're all struggling to figure out what sequestration is going to mean for 2013 as you are as well and I'm sure you're evaluating lots of scenarios but putting the topline impact aside if you were to think about the mechanics about how you will evaluate the impact of sequestration on margins given that we'll already be done with Q4 and you'll probably be closing out your EAC shortly thereafter and we won't know really what's going to happen with contractual actions by the time you report Q4 results and may not know by the time you report Q1 results.
When is it realistic in the sort of mechanical process of how you're going to set EACs and determine profit rates that you'll have a realistic read on what the impact of sequestration could be for your margin rates? Okay.
So I will try to answer the number of questions that you just put forward.
There are many factors to consider when you're thinking about this and frankly at this stage it's hypothetical.
So the speculation isn't all that easy.
Now with that said a lot of this depends -- for various companies not just Raytheon but if you stand back a lot of this depends on how companies' programs are going to be impacted overall.
So for example if the decreases are tied to a dedicated facility and that's not a situation that we would want to be in and frankly we don't find ourselves in that situation the cost associated with the facility could have a negative impact on the margin profile.
It also depends on whether a program or programs are being canceled or stretched out whether they are funded or unfunded.
The overall program mix of the company and whether or not you have offsets things like international business and again from Raytheon's perspective we believe that's a strength.
I think most importantly is our ability to react quickly to any type of reductions from a cost structure standpoint.
We know how to react in this regard and you can see that especially if you look in the rearview mirror.
Just look at the facts and look at the results we've posted and the margins we've been able to achieve.
We do have a broad portfolio of programs and the fact that we have company-wide systems again which we've talked to in the past it does provide us with a lot of flexibility to help mitigate any kind of pressure on the margin profile.
I hope that answers the question.
Research Division</strong> It does.
As kind of a follow-up to that is it fair to say that it will take an extended period of time into 2013 before we'll really have a decent handle on what some of those impacts might be? Well again it depends what kind of guidance we get from the customer and if and how sequestration is actually implemented.
So it's -- my crystal ball is a little foggy this morning.
It's a fair question but it's very difficult to answer in the hypothetical.
Yes.
Just a little color to what Dave said.
We do not expect the department to cancel programs starting in January.
At least some of the discussions have stated that they'll plan their way through it as Dave said and for us we'll do our planning based on both scenarios a normal -- just a normal year you'd call what we're in versus a year of sequestrations and what's important is we have a healthy funded backlog.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky Citi.
Research Division</strong> David a quick question for you and then one for Bill.
Dave you mentioned that there were going to be some costs related to the termination of a supplier agreement.
Can you give a little bit more detail about a what that is and b what the extent of the costs might be? And then Bill if you could share a little bit about cash deployment going forward and kind of update us on your current thinking on priority.
Sure.
So relative to the NCS supplier agreement we are in negotiations so there's not a lot we can say.
What we've done is essentially set up a worst case scenario for the fourth quarter and have assumed a $30 million adjustment to NCS's earnings.
That's from a company standpoint in the fourth quarter.
From a fourth quarter margin perspective that's about 50 basis points but again it is a worst case scenario and the team is working through the situation and we are working hard to not have this happen.
But we did think it was appropriate to put that into the guidance in the fourth quarter so that's Part 1.
Part 2 you asked about capital deployment.
At this point we don't see any wholesale changes moving forward.
We have a balanced approach.
We have moderated our share repurchases in 2012 when compared to 2011.
We had a meaningful dividend increase earlier in the year the eighth consecutive increase on an annual basis.
We feel comfortable relative to the funding profile of the pension.
You can see as you dig into the details of our financial results that we continue to invest in ourselves particularly in the R&amp;D area.
Going forward we'll continue to -- we'll continue with the acquisition strategy that we put in place a few years ago adding critical technologies to the overall portfolio.
So the short version would be I wouldn't expect meaningful changes as we look ahead to the next couple of years.
I do believe that the company has done an exceptionally good job from a cash performance standpoint and converting earnings into cash and that puts us in a very good position and gives us a lot of flexibility as we look to 2013 and '14.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little about NCS and my understanding had been that you were pretty much done with the impact from decline in war-related activity and that what was left could be offset by growth elsewhere in the unit particularly international.
That didn't appear to be the case this quarter.
I mean backlogs are holding up well but do you think we're at the bottom yet with respect to the impact from the decline in Army programs? Yes I think so Doug.
At least from what I see their book-to-bill was above 1 this quarter.
We expect it to stay above that.
Going forward I think for us NCS went through the transition.
They've got a strategy of the power of the network really with network-enabled solutions.
They're tapping into that for our customers and working it across the business base here in the company.
The Army drawdown they've transitioned from what I'd call single-mission army products to network solutions bringing actionable intelligence to the individual soldier.
That's where we see the Army going.
They need to accomplish that on the move.
You've heard me talk about MAINGATE [indiscernible] and Command View and PSDS2 are things that we can do to broaden NCS and help the Army get in there.
There are large Army and Navy satellite communications programs.
I talked about that earlier on the call.
We see that as a real strength for them.
And then of course I mentioned they'll be getting a sizable contract here in the fourth quarter.
We really feel good about it.
It's all buttoned up.
We just got to wait for the final signature here.
We thought we would announce it but things move a date or a day around here at times.
So we feel good about that.
And then the thing that's really exciting is our air-traffic business.
Demand is there.
They're partnering with the FAA to -- of all the terminal automation systems to be interoperable with the FAA and DoD to provide a common operating picture and increase capacity.
In short to implement and deploy NextGen.
So we feel pretty good about where they're at and we look to the vector to be up as we go forward.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then regarding bookings more generally in Q3 it looked like a lot of your large awards were heavily U.S.
awards this time and did you see any of the strength in bookings as DoD efforts to get things done before the end of fiscal 2012? No Doug.
We haven't seen a delay and we've not seen an acceleration.
The guidance DoD has is business is normal obligate the funds and proceed forward.
So from our standpoint it feels normal on the DoD side and kind of what we expected as we looked at things.
Our next question comes from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I have a long-term question about margins.
In both IDS and missile systems you're entering new territory in terms of profit rates.
I think many of us are trying to figure out whether something really structural is taking place that can allow these type of margins to become a new baseline or whether we're just kind of at a crest to the cycle.
I think -- if you could help us think about that structurally in terms of both the contracting dynamics and product cycles that would be helpful.
So let me start off with kind of the near-term view and then address the longer-term view.
So for IDS the third quarter margins were higher than the guidance that we had earlier provided.
That's really the result of the strong execution in our factory operations.
So on a quarter-to-quarter basis if you're looking at Q4 it actually moderates a little bit relative to Q3 and year-to-date but that's the result of the timing of the efficiencies that we spoke to earlier combined with the overall schedule acceleration on a number of international programs.
Looking forward we would continue to see strong margins in IDS.
I'd suggest of the 6 business areas likely the strongest margins for the group driven primarily by the strength of the international business specifically in the air and missile defense area as well as continued performance on a number of domestic programs as we look ahead.
From a missile system standpoint structurally there isn't anything too remarkable.
I would suggest that the third quarter performance was again driven by a number of areas of focus on the efficiency side and the productivity side as well as overhead reduction efforts again that we spoke to earlier.
Going forward I'd suggest that margins would be in the general range that we expect for 2012.
Again I'm extrapolating over the next couple of years.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave I was wondering if I could ask a couple of questions on your favorite topic of pensions.
So I thought first of all if you could give us an idea of where your returns are year-to-date and what the discount is that you're looking at at the moment say out of this 30 of September.
Sure.
Returns year-to-date as of last night were just above 10% from an asset plan standpoint.
If you were to put a stake in the ground today we would be looking at around 4.25% discount rate.
And I'll remind you and I recognize you're aware of this that the discount rate will be set on the last day of the year based on a hypothetical bond portfolio that mirrors the liabilities of the plan.
So it's obviously difficult to handicap where that's going to end up.
But again if you're looking at today we would suggest about 4.25% discount rate.
So let me answer your next question before you ask it.
If you're looking at the FAS/CAS impact of '13 versus '12 we see that likely increasing by about $50 million 2013 to 2012 and you can see that if you just look at what's on the pension matrix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually the next question I was going to ask was something different was whether you'd assumed any material change in your contributions moving into next year? At this stage we don't see any material change in our contributions.
Let me just give you some specifics.
From a gross pension funding standpoint we'll be at around $750 million in '12.
And after the CAS reimbursement we're actually positive about $100 million.
That's the same neighborhood as we look at '13.
It's about just under $900 million gross but again positive about $100 million from a cash flow standpoint.
I do want to just mention one other thing before we close out this subject.
If we look at a 2014 from a FAS/CAS expense standpoint we see that number being in the neighborhood of -- on an absolute basis of about $50 million negative so there is a fairly significant movement in the numbers from '13 to '14.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two things I want to just ask about.
One is Bill as you look at sort of your bid and proposal and opportunities that you're going after what sort of percentage would you say in general terms is new things that you don't currently have so that they in effect represent market share opportunities? Howard I don't know if I've broken it down that way.
But if I think about it from a technological point of view and where we make our investments and where we're heading we're seeing more technology and where we're focusing in to upgrade systems.
If you take older devices there's a great opportunity to go from what I'll say are the old maggies [ph] or tubes to solid-state.
There's a way to go from gallium to GaN and so there's a push for us in that area.
The other thing that we see an opportunity and you saw this in the EW World that where you could take multiple systems and go to multi-function systems and that's an area where we see that taking place.
And of course the last one is that we believe you need technology to be able to reduce manpower.
And we think going into the headwinds that's something important.
So from our standpoint that's kind of our focus.
We see as our military gets smaller and tries to be more agile in their strategy we see ourselves going there.
And then the other part that something I've talked about before is our CRAD.
Our development is running at about $1 billion to $1.5 billion for us and that's really all the seed corn stuff we see in the company that leads to new programs.
And you know of course for us EW advancing AESA radars on older platforms and so forth are just examples of things we're trying to do.
But I don't have a percentage and I hate to swag it but it is something I'll go look at see if I can get an answer.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just to finish is that -- part of all of this pressure on defense is obviously units and things like that but part of it's also process at the customer.
Have you been able to be effective either in coming up with some notable solutions or examples that you can take from one business unit to another where you're contracting costs and processes to deliver the good is really...
It's a great question.
I've talked about it in B and P funds bid and proposal.
Clearly for us we have and are sharing best practices across the company.
The number of programs we're bidding on is going up.
We're opening the aperture and one of the things we've found is some of our businesses have got some very creative ways to be able to bid more with no more and we pass that around the company.
The other thing I should have mentioned back to your original question in cyber what we're encouraged about now is we have the ability to work cyber from the network to the cloud to the desktop to the laptop to all forms of mobile and we believe that's an opportunity for us that we haven't had before as we've added some niche acquisitions in here and I should have mentioned that.
Our next question comes from Bill Loomis Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at -- you did a good job giving us an overview on NCS.
But just on IIS and TS when I look into your guidance for the year and the fourth quarter it really implies margins in those 2 lower margin units anyway going into the low 7s.
Is there anything unusual there or conservatism? How do you explain that? No.
Well for IIS I think if you just cut through everything I would expect the full year margins to be at the top end of the ranges that we've provided.
There's nothing unusual or remarkable going on in IIS.
They continue to perform well.
They're winning a lot of new business.
We are very pleased with the way they have delivered results for the company for 2012 and we expect more of the same in 2013.
They're particularly strong in the classified area.
From a Technical Services standpoint we talked a little bit about the timing of training and logistics programs shifting to the right.
From a margin perspective the comp to last year's third quarter is a difficult one because we had a number of programs closing out at our customized engineering and depot services area and that resulted in some margin pickups that otherwise would have occurred later in the year.
The roughly low 8% range is about the way to think about that business.
They're continuing to perform well.
And again I know I sound a little bit like a broken record but there's nothing too remarkable happening in that business either.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick question on NCS on the $30 million worst case scenario on the supplier agreement if I -- I guess if I just add that back to my model based on your implied fourth quarter guidance you have actually a very good margin in NCS.
Is that -- how is that factored into the guidance specifically? It's just a -- think of it as directly off the bottom line.
It's a $30 million -- it's not a reserve in the accounting sense but it's a reserve in the guidance that we've built into our projections and again we're working hard to not take that impact and we'll see how things play out over the next month or 2.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave maybe you can help me with this.
You talked about the strong order activity.
You had orders kind of $1 billion higher than sales but when I look at your funded backlog it actually declined since June.
So can you just talk about how things end up going into total backlog versus funded backlog? Well the funded backlog I think the place I'd like to start would be relative to where we were in this period last year and that's up about $1.2 billion.
With respect to the overall backlog as well as the funded backlog Sam there's always timing elements to this and there's nothing to read into it.
Again quarter-to-quarter things will ebb and flow.
We do feel that the backlog from an overall mix standpoint is very strong.
The international backlog is in the high 30% range and we expect that to increase over time.
The average funded portion of the overall backlog runs about 55% to 60%.
So again I don't think -- there's nothing significant to report.
There is obviously timing from quarter-to-quarter.
And I would add it's Bill that at least one customer base not DoD is on a monthly funded basis rather than a quarterly funded basis.
So the number could even be or should even be higher so it's caused a little bit of a spike but we feel pretty good about our funded backlog going into next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave if I can follow up just on the cash flow you were $400 million or $500 million more than you said you were going to be in terms of cash flow from ops.
You said a lot of it's timing but is this going to imply the fourth quarter is actually below the third quarter? I can't recall you doing that in quite a while so why are we going see that reverse next quarter? Well again we did suggest that much of this was timing.
I am comfortable with suggesting the higher-end of the cash flow range for the year and that is a little bit different than what we had been suggesting in the past.
Obviously cash is measured on the last day of the year so it's always difficult to handicap.
But again I wouldn't say there's anything unusual going on there either.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Bill I want to get your thoughts on just kind of -- you mentioned kind of the changes there or navigating with sequestration but your thoughts on kind of M&amp;A? We saw I think a big announcement last month with the ADS and BAE and obviously that's not going forward.
How -- what's your -- any change in your approach there? I know you guys have been very consistent but I wanted to get your updated thoughts.
Yes consistency is a good thing and transparency is even better and no surprise this is the best.
And so from our standpoint I think we think about it the same way.
First of all can we invest in ourselves? If we do that then we know the kind of margins and returns we're going to get.
The next part can we partner with someone that helps if they have the capability? For us we have a good record teaming with universities on some of these smaller jobs and programs that we have as we go forward.
Dave talked about share repurchase and dividends how we look at that and the next part is the M&amp;A and we're very comfortable with the type of M&amp;A activity we have.
We just announced Teligy.
That's a strategy really there to broaden cyber even further for us.
They specialize in wireless RF communication vulnerability analysis reverse engineering and rapid prototyping.
We're thrilled to have this firm join the Raytheon team and they just give us more capability in this very complicated cyber world that continues to get more attention.
But the bottom line is we have not altered anything and I can't comment on the transaction other than those are hard to do in this environment.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just regarding the smaller niche Teligy are you seeing --- are there more opportunities or -- for you where you feel like you have technology gaps? It feels like you already had a very big base to work from in the cyber.
Right we do but one of the things you have to look at cyber it evolves.
It's a threat that is basically depending on whether you're right-handed or left-handed a click of the mouse.
And from our standpoint we've always had this vision of being full service to our customers and to us we want to make sure that we can handle not only the network but the cloud the desktop the laptop or what we see.
The whole world's going mobile and that's very vulnerable and as an engineer I realize that an aperture is a door and that door can be opened or closed and we want to be able to provide that service to our customers that we have full knowledge of the spectrum and that's kind of how we think about it.
And oh by the way I should point out as we add these firms we have a very nice transition plan here in the company where they become part of it and what I'm really thrilled about is the acquisitions we made talking to those leaders how they feel about joining the company and being able to broaden their capabilities too.
Our final question comes from the line of Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first Dave on cash just a clarification.
Coming into 2012 they did have some tough comps on customer advances from 2011 and I think at the time you talked about 2013 kind of showing a nice rebound.
Kind of thinking about it conceptually between the 2 years is that still about the right way to think about '13 as you go forward? So '13 it's a little early to talk about the guidance.
We did come into the year with a balance that was I would say high relative to prior years specifically around customer advances international customer advances which is being liquidated in 2012 and 2013.
As you know we have improved cash performance and the guidance that we had suggested back in January.
I'll provide more details this January on how we see '13 playing out.
But given just the number of moving pieces for '13 I think it's just a little bit early.
What I would feel comfortable conveying at this stage is that the cash flow expectations for next year in a general way should be in line with what we're seeing for '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bill a question for you on communications on the defense landscape it seems like JTRS has been restructured and now is inside of a new program office.
And I know Raytheon's engaged on the software side but it seems like the hardware side is opening up opportunities for you as well.
Can you touch on where you think Raytheon fits in that? Are you competing on the vehicular radio competition? Yes.
No we are in -- from my standpoint I really don't think of it as a radio business anymore.
I really think about it is a software business.
That's where communication's going not only in wave forms and so forth but the other thing that we're going to see a real push on is in secure communications how do you move data around the battlefield in a secure way.
And if you think about it it's no different than I think what U.S.
industry is going to have to think about how corporations move around big data and information in an encrypted format.
So from our standpoint we see that as something that's really important to us and where part of our focus is here as you move think about data from an airborne or a satellite platform down to a ground station and then you move that information around.
That information has to be secure and it's secure really through software and through wave forms.
Research Division</strong> But specifically on the JTRS vehicular radio have you been able to get a placement in that competition? Yes we have.
And the other thing is MAINGATE really puts a hole in everything there if you think about it.
And we'll be participating -- I think they call it the NIE.
Let's see if anybody around here at the table...
Research Division</strong> Network Integration Exercise yes.
Yes you got it.
That's good.
I'm impressed but we're participating in that big time and we're looking forward to demonstrating what our hardware can do and that's a great environment for us to operate in because we don't believe in [indiscernible].
We believe in hardware.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter conference call in January.
Chanel? Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
All right.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fourth quarter conference call.
The results we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon delivered solid operating results in 2012.
Our focus on lowering costs and program execution drove higher than expected earnings and cash flow for the year.
Demand for our broad portfolio of cutting-edge technologies and innovative solutions resulted in bookings well in excess of expectation and we ended 2012 with a record funded backlog.
Fourth quarter bookings were strong at $7.9 billion resulting in a book-to-bill of 1.23.
International comprised a robust 40% of fourth quarter bookings.
When looking at the full year our book-to-bill was 1.09 and was driven by strong domestic orders for missiles radars training communication and classified programs as well as international orders for command and control systems precision munitions and sensors among a multitude of other awards.
We also exceeded our initial bookings expectation by about 6% ending the year with $26.5 billion of total bookings with domestic demand a little higher and international also strong.
In the fourth quarter international revenue increased 8% over last year and represents 27% of the quarter's total revenue.
For all of 2012 international revenue was 26% of our total revenue setting the standard for our industry and continuing to validate our international strategy.
As a technology and innovation leader we continued our investment strategy to strengthen our capabilities grow our market position and better meet customer needs.
During the fourth quarter we completed 2 acquisitions.
SafeNet Government Solutions is a world-class provider of encryption technology that aligns well with Raytheon's advanced strategic and tactical communications capabilities and enhances our position in these markets.
Teligy specializes in wireless RF communication vulnerability analysis reverse engineering and rapid prototyping.
These acquisitions ensure that we are well positioned in communications and cyber markets for the future.
Looking at the defense environment the U.S.
government averted the brunt of the fiscal cliff earlier this month.
However the ultimate outcome for sequestration was delayed and not resolved and the new potential implementation date for sequestration is now March 1.
The government continues to operate under a continuing resolution for fiscal year '13 that runs through March 27 or roughly halfway through its fiscal year.
It's important to remember that we've been operating under various CRs and the threat from sequestration for a while now and the company continues to perform well.
This is a testament to the strength of our strategy and the operating talent across the company.
As we've discussed on previous calls we're planning for potential various outcomes.
Regardless our focus remains on continually finding new ways to deliver world-class technology while at the same time reducing our costs and improving our efficiency whatever the environment.
With our culture of continuous improvement it's how we manage and run the company.
Our latest example of this is the formation of our Global Business Services group or GBS that we announced last week.
GBS will leverage common systems across the company enabling simplified processes and increasing operational speed and agility while providing value to our customers.
It brings together the best practices from the company's supply chain management finance information technology and human resource functions to drive increased customer satisfaction and improve efficiencies.
And it will build on the continuing success of our ongoing enterprise efficiency initiatives by applying proven service delivery practices more broadly across the company.
Before concluding let me spend a minute on the strength of the Raytheon culture and some of the recognition we received last year in 2012.
Raytheon continued to deploy its best-in-class environmental health and safety programs and the company had its safest year in its history.
Our recordable injury rate improved 8.6% over 2011.
These results are industry leading and are a direct result of our world-class processes and operating discipline.
I'm proud of the team's achievement and will strive to build upon our success in the future.
Further the company once again achieved a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index marking the eighth consistent consecutive year we've achieved this recognition.
Raytheon was also recognized as one of America's most community-minded companies in the Civic 50 which is the first scientific evaluation used to rank companies that best use their time talent and resources to improve the quality of life where they do business.
Collectively these achievements reflect the strength of our vision our strategy goals and values as principles that bind each of us and our employees together with a common mission of customer success.
In summary Raytheon had a good year.
Of course our solid operating performance in 2012 would not have been possible without the hard work and dedication of the Raytheon team.
During the year with more than its share of external headwinds the team remained focused and executed well.
Together we're prepared for the future and stand ready to continue to deliver value to our customers and our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the fourth quarter and full year results then I'll discuss our outlook for 2013.
And after that Bill and I will open up the call for questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning which are posted on our website.
So if everyone could please move to Page 3.
We delivered solid results in both the quarter and the full year.
We booked $26.5 billion in new business ending the year with a $36.2 billion backlog.
Our sales were up slightly compared with last year's fourth quarter and down 1.5% for the full year.
Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $1.60.
For the full year adjusted EPS of $6.21 was up 6%.
For the quarter our adjusted EPS came in higher than the guidance we provided you in October but below last year's fourth quarter.
On a full year basis operational improvements were relatively consistent in 2012 compared with 2011.
However you'll recall that in 2011 operational improvements were heavily weighted toward the fourth quarter.
We also generated strong operating cash flow of $1 billion for the quarter and $2 billion for the year.
We were able to achieve very strong cash collections across all of our businesses.
This strong performance allowed us to make a discretionary pension contribution of $500 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Additionally during the fourth quarter the company repurchased 1.8 million shares of common stock for $100 million bringing the full year 2012 repurchases to 15.9 million shares for about $825 million.
As we've previously disclosed in the fourth quarter 2012 the company issued $1.1 billion of 10-year debt at 2.5% using the proceeds primarily to retire our 2014 and '15 maturities.
We have now lengthened our weighted average debt maturity structure to about 13 years and locked in attractive interest rates over the longer term.
The next maturity isn't due until 2018.
The company ended the year with a strong balance sheet and net debt of $687 million.
Turning now to Page 4 let me go through some of the details of our fourth quarter and full year results.
We had strong bookings of $7.9 billion in the quarter and $26.5 billion for the full year resulting in a backlog of $36.2 billion.
The book-to-bill was 1.23 in the quarter and 1.09 for the year which exceeded the high end of our initial expectations from back in January of 2012.
The company ended 2012 with a record funded backlog of about $24 billion an increase of over $1.5 billion from year-end 2011.
It's worth noting that both Missile Systems and Space and Airborne Systems had outstanding bookings performance for the full year 2012.
In the fourth quarter we had several significant international awards including $650 million at NCS for a C4I program; $500 million of missiles for Paveway; $289 million at SAS for its sensor program; and 2 contracts for about $300 million each at IDS one was for an Early Warning Surveillance Radar and the other was to provide technical and logistics support for a Hawk and Patriot air and missile defense program.
Other significant bookings included $332 million at IDS for TPY-2 radars for the Missile Defense Agency; $251 million on the Zumwalt-class destroyer program for the U.S.
Navy; and $511 million at IIS on a number of classified programs.
MS booked $303 million for Tomahawk for the U.S.
Navy and an international customer.
Total company backlog increased by more than $850 million over year-end 2011.
Turning now to Page 5.
We achieved fourth quarter sales of $6.4 billion slightly higher than the comparable period last year.
Looking at the businesses net sales at IDS were about $1.3 billion in the quarter up 2%.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales on the TPY-2 radar program for an international customer.
Missile Systems net sales were $1.5 billion in the quarter an increase of 4% primarily driven by higher sales on the SM-3 and the Rolling Airframe Missile programs.
It's also worth noting that we've re-baselined the AMRAAM contract with the U.S.
Air Force.
We now have an updated delivery plan.
We are executing well with a qualified second source supplying rocket motors allowing us to deliver completed missiles to our customer.
Space and Airborne Systems had net sales of $1.4 billion in the quarter up 3% as a result of higher sales on an international tactical airborne radar program.
IIS had net sales of $755 million and NCS had net sales of $1.1 billion both essentially in line with the same period last year.
Technical Services had net sales of $831 million down a little more than $50 million from the comparable period a year ago due to the completion of the National Science Foundation Polar contract in the first quarter 2012.
If you move to Page 6 we delivered solid operational performance in the quarter and for the full year.
When you compare margins to our prior guidance all of our businesses met or exceeded the range that we had provided in October.
As I previously mentioned on a full year basis operational improvements were relatively consistent in 2012 compared with 2011.
However 2011 operational improvements were heavily weighted toward the fourth quarter.
Further as I discussed on the October call our results include the costs associated with ending a supplier agreement at NCS.
As I stand back and look at the year we delivered strong margins.
Our adjusted operating margin increased 20 basis points for the full year.
We continue to see meaningful contributions from our ongoing productivity efforts.
On Page 7 you'll see both the fourth quarter and full year adjusted EPS.
In the fourth quarter 2012 adjusted EPS was $1.60 and for the full year was $6.21 compared with $5.85 in 2011 an increase of 6%.
The increase for the full year was driven by strong results from operations and capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases.
As I previously mentioned the company generated strong operating cash flow of $2 billion in 2012.
Moving on to our 2013 guidance on Page 8.
We see sales in the range of between $23.6 billion and $24.1 billion.
As for pension we see the FAS/CAS adjustment of $286 million which reflects our investment returns in 2012 of over 12% and the December 31 discount rate of 4.15%.
We expect net interest to be between $200 million and $210 million.
We see the average diluted share count to be between 324 million and 327 million on a full year basis.
As for our effective tax rate we expect it to be approximately 30% which includes the R&amp;D tax credit for both 2012 and 2013 which has an impact of about $0.15.
The accounting rules required the full retroactive benefit from the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit worth about $0.08 to be booked in the first quarter 2013.
In 2013 we see our adjusted EPS to be in the range $5.65 to $5.80.
In addition to the FAS/CAS adjustment it's worth noting that our 2013 adjusted EPS also excludes the $0.08 benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit that relates to 2012.
We see 2013 EPS to be in the range of $5.16 to $5.31.
Our operating cash flow guidance is between $2 billion and $2.2 billion.
Lastly I do want to point out that our initial 2013 guidance does not include the potential effect of sequestration.
Continuing on to Page 9.
From a sales perspective we see our domestic business down offset partially by strength in our international business.
We expect 2013 adjusted margins to continue to be solid and in the 12.3% to 12.5% range.
Given the existing uncertainty that the industry faces and to give us flexibility we've included 20 basis points of costs in our 2013 margin guidance related to accelerating facility utilization improvements and operating initiatives.
We are continuing to take a number of actions to improve the operating structure of the company.
We are accelerating facility consolidations and as you are already aware we launched Global Business Services.
These combined with our ongoing enterprise-wide supply chain efforts directly strengthen our competitive posture going forward.
We have included the cost of implementing these actions in our 2013 guidance.
If you'd now turn to Page 10 we've provided you with our 2013 outlook by quarter.
You'll notice the improvement in sales cadence as we go through the year which reflects program timing and the current environment.
We expect bookings to be back-half weighted similar to last year.
And finally on Page 11.
As we've done in the past we provided a summary of the financial impact from pensions in 2012 as well as the projected impact for 2013 through '15 holding all assumptions constant.
We believe this will help you better understand our company over the next few years.
I do want to point out that with these assumptions held constant we expect the FAS/CAS adjustment to significantly improve after 2013 turning positive in 2015.
If interest rates were to increase we would see an even faster improvement in the FAS/CAS adjustments.
Let me conclude my saying that in 2012 Raytheon delivered strong operating performance.
By focusing on program execution and lowering costs our margins earnings and operating cash flow were all ahead of expectations.
Book-to-bill was strong.
Our backlog in total and our funded backlog increased year-over-year.
Our international opportunities continue to be robust.
We have a strong balance sheet and net debt of less than $700 million.
We continue to find new ways to deliver world-class technologies improve efficiency and drive productivity.
We remain confident in our future and in our ability to continue to create value for our customers and our shareholders.
So with that Bill and I will open the call up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Joe Nadol JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bill could we go to the NCS segments? It looks like your guidance there is for margins coming down a bit and I know this is where a lot of the operational activity or operational tempo type of activity in your business has been located.
But you've been restructuring that business to some degree.
Can you just give us an update on what's happening there? Yes sure Joe.
We feel confident that that business is stabilized I guess a good way to say it.
As you know part of the focus there has been to concentrate on the network part of the business and show why our customers need to be presented with accurate actionable data on the move.
And so for us when we look at their full year sales and margin they were consistent with the guidance we gave back in Q3.
And in Q4 NCS had bookings of about $1.5 billion including a key international C4I win which drove their full year book-to-bill about 1.13 in line with guidance.
And bookings increased about $500 million over 2011 positioning them well for 2013.
So taken together I feel pretty good about where we're going and where we're headed in that regard.
Joe let me just add one thing.
The 2013 guidance also includes about 50 basis points related to the encryption acquisition that we made.
So if you adjust for that it's basically in line with '12.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then Dave just on the cash flow and the pension.
It looks like you guys anticipate a positive variance in your cash flow of $600 million I think from pension from '12 to 13 just looking at the CAS going up and your contributions going down and your guidance calls for cash flow that's flat to slightly up.
What are the opportunities there or are there other headwinds that you're dealing with that -- such that your cash flow wouldn't be a little higher? No your math is right.
There is a swing in the pension.
There's a couple of things.
We had a very strong performance from a cash perspective in Q4 both on the collections side and with respect to performance-based payments and advances.
So as you look at 2013 there is about a $300 million swing relative to timing between Q4 and Q1 from a cash standpoint and we are continuing to post very strong cash performance of between $2 billion and $2.2 billion as we go into '13.
So there's nothing remarkable going on there.
We continue to perform well from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally could you quantify -- when you get the question if sequestration as currently -- as it currently looks -- or is scheduled right now kicks in what's the impact to sales in 2013 what's your answer? Joe let me take a minute and say that we need to get focused on getting sequestration fixed.
It's the elephant in the room it sucks all the air out of every conversation.
And by postponing the debt ceiling we averted a government shutdown which means federal checking or checks not going out to servicemen or people operating in our government.
It would have been a horrible outcome.
Sequestration cuts deeply into areas that Dems favor and cuts in areas that Republicans favor.
And for me I think sequestration sets the baseline upon which both sides will do the budget.
It puts the budget where it belongs.
It's about making hard decisions that need to be made and we need to make them strategically and not across the board in a peanut butter fashion.
So having said all of that I'm not sure what the outcome of sequestration is since OMB and DOD have really not passed any guidance down.
But if I had to look into a crystal ball and use all the intelligence that I can think of and kind of throw a dart at the wall I would tell you it probably means an additional point or 2 to us as we look at the balance.
And you have to remember we have our strongest funded backlog in our history.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave you mentioned that there's a 20 basis point headwinds in the year from a marketing perspective driven by some of these cost initiatives that you're engaging in.
I was wondering if you might perhaps describe to us what the eventual benefit you think will come out of those from a margin perspective and when you think we might see those benefits.
So let me start by saying we are continuing to take a lot of productivity actions and we're accelerating these in a number of areas.
Obviously there are some implementation costs which you're addressing specifically with the utilization actions.
And we expect more of these due to acceleration than in the prior years.
I think going forward these actions position us more competitively.
And with the environment that we expect to be seeing over the next few years it positions us well amongst the peer group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the CAS harmonization earlier in the 2012 year you were able to begin increasing your billing rates.
And I just want to get an update on how successful those increased billing rates have gone.
Have those stuck? And are we actually going to see the full benefits that you might have or you might be able to see in the 2014 and '15 time frame from the harmonization efforts.
Yes.
The -- that is playing out as we had anticipated about a year ago and there's nothing new to report from that perspective.
We expect the cash benefit to start being realized as we move into '14 and continue to progress each year thereafter for about a 3- or 4-year time frame.
So there's nothing new there and that's going well on all fronts.
Our next question comes from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Given the strong bookings you've had in each of the last 2 years is it reasonable to expect that maybe next year bookings are going to be more on the order of 1:1? Or do you still expect to come in above 1:1? We expect bookings around 1.0 as you point out.
We had a good year this year.
We -- when we look at the bookings for 2013 we expect those to be around $24 billion plus or minus $500 million.
We expect about 28% to 30% of those to be international which is strong for us and 1:1 or a little over 1:1.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up question on the operating margins.
Even if I take account of the 20 bps of costs associated with the streamlining of the business it looks like you're modeling quite a contraction in profitability in the next year.
Is there anything fundamental going on? Or is this kind of the standard conservatism that you have at this point of the cycle? Right.
I wouldn't characterize it as conservatism.
There is some mix and timing impacts as we go into 2013.
There are some long-duration production programs that are ramping down.
We have a number of development programs ramping up as well as some international production programs ramping up.
So there is a mix impact.
And again if you add back the 20 basis points for the cost efficiency programs that we are implementing and roughly 10 basis points at the company level for the encryption acquisition we believe that the margin profile is resulting in very strong margin performance.
So there's nothing again that's different there.
We think as we move ahead we'll continue to post very strong margins and solid earnings.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of bigger picture questions.
This one for Dave.
I know you guys have been pretty consistent and balanced in your cash deployment efforts and in your strategy and both in your communications.
But as you think conceptually about this year and as I look at where the balance sheet is now with the debt termed out you'll be in a kind of net cash position by looks like Q3.
The balance sheet looks the best it has in a long time.
To Joe's point you're going to be generating a lot of cash this year.
Presumably at this point later in the year we'll have a lot more visibility about where the budget is.
Is there any potential that you give stronger consideration to returning more cash to shareholders? Or how does that thought process go given the progress you've made on the balance sheet and given the cash generation you expect? We do not contemplate any wholesale changes with respect to our capital deployment priorities.
You're correct when you point out the health of the balance sheet and the strength of our cash flow.
It does give us an opportunity to be flexible with respect to importantly investing in ourselves returning cash to shareholders investing in the pension looking at niche acquisitions.
But from an overall standpoint I wouldn't suggest any significant changes in the way we think about capital deployment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one for Bill.
Just bigger picture we now have the election behind us.
We're contemplating changes around the department.
We obviously had some congressional changes.
But given its importance to your international business I wondered if you might speak to any potential changes you see for the FMS process as we move into a second-term administration some congressional changes some changes at the department.
Is there scope to sell more goods internationally? Is there pressure in any way? How are you thinking about that given its importance to your business? You hit the nail on the head.
One of the things that -- having -- going into -- in my 40th or 41st year here at the company I've seen a lot.
And one of the things that I'm really encouraged about is that the department and others see the importance of the FMS process.
For us we've got a robust pipeline here of activity that we're working on especially either here in the first quarter or throughout the year.
And I would say that the department State Department and the administration understands that foreign military sales help us bridge the gap as we go through these headwinds in the sense that if we have these programs in our factories they help keep our overheads in control.
They help in some cases to lower them which allows the U.S.
to make the decisions that need to be made.
And we're working with the department and I can say personally I'm doing it in the sense of how we look at the timing of U.S.
orders versus FMS orders and how do we balance our factories that way.
I'm encouraged.
The environment really forces this.
But people are listening and they're trying to help in the process and we've had a number of CNs go through the building.
And I expect -- the nice thing if Senator Kerry is confirmed when he's confirmed as Secretary of State he really understands this because he headed up Foreign Relations on the Senate side.
So I'd say it's bright and not dim.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one question.
I just wanted to follow up on where I guess Carter started which is if I think about 2012 across the industry and to some extent Raytheon as well there was a slowdown in the pace of using cash.
I want to say hoarding some cash in advance of sequestration and continuing resolution.
That situation hasn't really changed so I guess I'm trying to think about does that mean the pace of buybacks as we go forward in 2013 should also be relatively slow until we get some resolution? Sam the guidance that we provided with respect to the average outstanding diluted share count of 324 million to 327 million suggests a repurchase plan directionally in line with 2012.
And that's what I was suggesting when I answered the earlier question with respect to cash being returned to shareholders.
We'll also be addressing any change to the dividend as we move forward in the year.
We're following the same cadence that we have in prior years and we'll be discussing this with the board as we do throughout the year and talking with the shareholders as we likely close out the first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just if I look at the segment guidance for 2013 why on a year-over-year basis do you seem to have more of a decline in NCS and SAS than the other segments? Are there certain programs ending? Is it an OCO assumption? Really what's behind those 2 segments? So with respect to NCS the lower margin is driven by mix primarily U.S.
Army sensor programs nearing completion.
It's partially offset by a ramp-up on new international programs.
And again we do have about 50 basis points of impact related to acquisition accounting for the fourth quarter acquisition in that group.
With respect to SAS the operating income declines over '12 due to again a change in mix.
Here it's primarily due to international sales moderating slightly specifically on long-duration production programs combined with higher sales on new development programs.
So again there's nothing too unusual happening from an SAS perspective.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You said Bill or maybe Dave you said this that there's no sequester in the guidance.
But what level of cuts are contemplated in the guidance? And if we -- you also mentioned that if we do get a full sequester it's 1 point or 2 how much worse is it in '14 just given that it's going to be back-end-of-the-year timing? Yes as you know we don't give any guidance in '14.
And that one's really hard to figure out Rob because from a point of view of how are the cuts going to be made I know there are many on the Hill that are trying to give the Secretary and the department the ability to line up their priorities with their strategies and make the cuts.
If they're forced into a peanut butter approach where everything gets spread the same then different outcomes happen.
For us I always think of Raytheon being different.
When you look at 26% of our sales being international and having a strong funded backlog not being -- or agnostic the platforms I like to think we're going to fare better than anybody else going into these headwinds.
So I would tell you in '14 I look for us to be better than others.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up on that.
Dave in your revenue guidance how should we think about organic growth domestically versus international in '13? So the range of international growth is 3% to 5%.
And from a domestic standpoint we look to be down about 3% to 5%.
So net-net that's if you stand back that's about 1% to 3% down overall from a company perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last thing a clarification.
What was the underlying margin at NCS when you adjust for the supplier agreement? The supplier agreement cost us about $17 million to end that agreement.
There's another point I'd like to make here.
We also had an inventory write-down in that group worth about $14 million.
So combined it's about $30 million.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill a couple of quarters ago you commented that some of the acquisition targets that were pensioned out that were too expensive.
You've made a couple of small deals this quarter.
Does that mean these prices started to come down into your comfort level? No the small deals we look at each one of them on an independent basis.
The wireless RF is a key capability and especially for vulnerability I think people have heard me say anything that has an aperture meaning an antenna or something that takes in signal is just a door we can knock on to open.
And so we wanted to have these capabilities even more so for our customers because we think that's something our customers are going to face as they go forward here.
Right now I can tell you I've not seen a reduction in market prices.
Everybody still thinks they're beachfront properties.
And so for us we're pretty disciplined here about how we go and do that.
But as you look to the future here people are going to have to evaluate what they have and maybe the prices will get better.
But right now for us they're really based on the capabilities we need as a company and then we draw a line in the sand of what we're willing to pay for something.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the export front you've clearly had several years now of good growth in export bookings.
How long do you think this trend is going to last? Do you think it's going to be strong enough to sustain you over say a 3 or 4-year period if the DOD budget is heading down? Yes I feel pretty good about the international.
It's still a complicated world out there.
Everybody faces threats whether you're in the Mideast or whether you're in Asia or other parts of the world.
People still want to know what's going on on their borders so the surveillance or the ISR capability.
And once they know that they need to tie it into the command and control.
And people are worried about missiles now so missile defense is key in that regard.
And then cyber being able to protect your assets and your communication and your nodes in country are important.
So I could go on and on.
And I just -- I'm encouraged as we go forward here that the international marketplace is one that from a strategy point of view we saw it a number of years ago and you see us constantly getting our booking and our sales up on a year-over-year basis.
So to answer your question I feel pretty good about it.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in -- when you talk about bookings very good year this past year.
Backlogs are up funded backlogs are up in every unit except for Technical Services yet you're guiding to lower revenues in '13.
Is this conservatism? Do you expect something different in terms of timing with respect to converting these backlogs? What's happening there? So let me start by saying our international sales for 2013 are projected to be up 3% to 5% and domestically down about 3% to 5%.
You do need to consider program duration on our new awards and the general headwinds in the environment.
So you are right.
We did see strong orders in 2012.
We had a book-to-bill of 1.09 some of which was accelerated from 2013.
We had a couple of multi-year awards in 2012 specifically at Missile Systems that are longer in duration and normally would have been funded in annual increments.
We also received some longer duration awards at SAS.
Our bookings in 2013 are down slightly with a book-to-bill of just around 1 or maybe 1-plus a little bit.
And the strength in international doesn't quite offset what's happening domestically.
And Doug I would add to what Dave said that one of the things that we're seeing and I'll have better color on by midyear some of our international customers are seeing what we can do to accelerate which could have an effect but it's a little early right now.
But a couple of initial discussions are can we pull some stuff to the left here.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well and on that could you talk about your expectations for some of these awards? In particular I know we've seen Turkey and Kuwait kind of slip.
And then out there is this -- the DFCA notification on Cutter [ph] which is quite large.
Can you talk a little bit about the specific things you're looking at for the year? Sure I'd be happy to do it.
It's -- the nice part is I want to put in perspective that we did increase our bookings above our expectation.
So even with the movement we met what we said we were going to do plus a little something extra.
And I really want to say that because you know us long enough that many years ago if something slipped that'd be a huge disaster and that's not the case because we have a super strong portfolio today.
So if you look at it Kuwait we might have expected that in the fourth quarter.
We expect it this quarter.
It's in country just waiting for the signatures and they have a process there.
So we're forecasting that for this quarter.
We expected a $750 million plus or minus.
The award will be larger than that but that will be the initial award because services and spares come a little bit later.
We've got Oman in the GBADs which is a ground-based air defense system.
We expect that decision in the first half of this year probably around the July time frame.
That's about $1.5 billion could be $0.5 billion larger.
Turkey Patriot clearly there everyone knows it's no secret that they have Patriots on the line now that they've gotten from NATO.
We expect a decision here on that in March.
They were going to make it in January but they went back to get some more data.
That is competitive there but from our standpoint we're doing everything to make sure it's in our wheelhouse.
That's a couple billion.
Cutter [ph] as you mentioned there's a CN approved in December.
That's for 11 fire units and missiles.
We expect an award in late '13 later in the year here that's a couple billion.
Then you throw in $100 million here or there for Paveway's another $750 million or so for missiles internationally.
Our ATM business is about $200 million this year for radars and systems.
And then we've got some Airborne sensing programs we're working on for about $1 billion.
So that's just a few of the international things that are going on in the company to give you an idea.
I hope that helps.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess a follow-on to Doug.
What about -- I've been hearing about Saudi.
Are they potentially in the market to buy anything from you? Yes they're one of our great customers.
We've been there for 50-plus years.
And I would say Raytheon's reputation there is about as good as it's ever been Cai and we feel good about it.
They're going to -- they're looking at additional missile defense capabilities.
They're doing an analysis of SNAP which is the Navy end of the business.
So we feel very good about what we're doing there and the kind of work we're doing for them.
LLC Research Division</strong> And could that result in any meaningful business awards in 2013? Maybe at the end of the year but definitely '14.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then you've been sort of complaining about mix going the wrong way.
If I look at IDS and add back the 20 bps the margins are essentially flat with an admittedly good 2012.
But isn't your mix maturing there more Patriots and then we have Zumwalt work that you've doing for a while moves back up.
So is there opportunity for the margins to be better at IDS? Cai I think Dave did a good job -- not because he's sitting next to me here but I thought he did a good job explaining the mix issue.
And you know as well as I do that when we start our international jobs we start them lower because there is risk associated with it till we're able to get through the milestones get our suppliers going and everything.
So part of that is the timing and as Dave would say the mix.
Zumwalt we feel good about.
The third ship is nailed down here.
We got some of that awarded in December.
But there's also some awards there that are tied up in the continuing resolution because as you know and I know the CR won't let you release any funds higher than what was obligated before.
So as soon as the CR gets through then some funds will be released and we'll be off and running.
We expect Zumwalt to be probably in about the $300 million range on sales consistent year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And last one.
As you look at your margin guidance could you comment which areas do you think maybe have the most opportunity to do better than you projected? And which are the ones where maybe you're nervous you might have trouble hitting the numbers? So Cai that's an excellent question and that's why we provide ranges for each one of the businesses.
We are obviously targeting internally for strength in every one of our businesses across the board.
But at this stage late January I think it's fair to say that we've provided the bookends and we see every one of our businesses working through that within those bookends throughout the year.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
Dave this is the first quarter you've had year-over-year decline in margin as well as sequential in I mean an awful long time.
Why shouldn't I conclude that effectively the margins peaked in '12 and your guidance even though usually conservative for '13 has been down a little bit more? George I joined the company about 7 years ago and people were suggesting our margins peaked 7 years ago and...
And every year since.
And I believe I've been asked that question about 111 times since then and every year we've continued to show improvement.
It doesn't mean that that happens each and every quarter or each and every year but over time we believe we'll continue to improve margins and returns.
Now 2012 the cadence with respect to our operational improvements were weighted in the first 9 months of the year.
And comparing the fourth quarter 2012 to 2011 the operational improvements or what some term the EAC adjustments were weighted in the fourth quarter of '11 as opposed to the fourth quarter of '12.
Moving forward we're continuing to take a lot of actions relative to cost and productivity improvements.
We've talked to some of those today.
Our guidance includes about 20 basis points relative to implementing some of those actions.
I'd say over the longer term 3 4 5 years out we would continue to see some upward movement from a margin and return perspective.
But Dave if I look at like EACs on average say I don't know what the fourth quarter was yet but have been incremental to the tone of 2 to 3 percentage points of margin.
And if you go back several years ago that was more like 1% 1.5%.
With some of these production programs ending I mean why wouldn't those EAC levels go back to where they were there several years ago? So they do run on average in the mid-2% range.
They are weighted toward fixed-price programs obviously as well as our production programs both domestically and internationally.
As we continue to expand our international footprint we continue to see opportunities to drive productivity in those areas.
So I would suggest taken as a whole the makeup of the backlog and the makeup of the pipeline from a growth perspective suggest that we ought to be able to and that we're confident in continuing to drive productivity improvements.
Okay.
And then I'll go back to my simple one that you probably have at your fingertips anyway.
Of the 3% to 5% domestic decline in '13 what's the classified component of that? Well for '13 what we're seeing is classified bookings and sales to be in the range of 14% to 16% of the total.
Which would imply what kind of percentage increase over '12? Well right now you'd have to back into the range.
But again I think at this stage the 14% to 16% of the total is the best way to provide that information.
And that was the same in 2012? Well in 2012 our classified sales grew 1 point -- well let me step back for a minute.
Classified bookings for the year were 16% of total bookings and up 30% over 2011.
Classified sales for the year were 16% of our total sales and in line with 2011 actually up a little bit.
Chanel we have time for one more question please.
Sure.
And the final question comes from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> Bill I know you talked about the guidance not reflecting sequestration but are you assuming we actually get a budget this year? Or are you assuming we have a full year of continuing resolution? For us right now it looks like the CR is scheduled at the end of March.
My gut tells me it's more like the end of May with everything lining up.
And if I had to guess on sequestration and this is a guess I'll qualify it that we'll probably end up touching the stove and feeling the heat which means it'll happen and then people are going to work to put it back in the box.
Hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But -- so you expect ultimately we get a budget but it's pretty late in the year? Yes yes.
That's the way I'd say it.
We need to do it and it -- to me the tone and tenor in Washington is people are starting to think about how serious this is.
And as I mentioned both sides want some things and when you do that you sit down at the table and you work it out in a bipartisan way and that's what we need to do as a country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Dave a couple of questions.
EACs in the quarter and what is your assumption for cash taxes in '13? Okay.
EAC's in the quarter were about 2.2% of revenue.
And again that's because they were weighted to the first 9 months of the year.
With respect to cash taxes in 2013 we expect that to be about $650 million.
Research Division</strong> And what was the number in '12? A little over -- about $840 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the bookings versus sales question that's been asked a couple times.
I guess specifically looking at missiles and SAS where bookings were up year-over-year yet you're forecasting sales flat to down there is there anything -- any specific reason as to why those businesses wouldn't be up given the bookings trend? No again there's nothing remarkable going on there.
Sales are in line from a Missile Systems perspective 2013 with 2012.
There's increased production rates on Tomahawk SM-6 AMRAAM and some other core programs which are offsetting lower production rates across various Army programs.
Again this is the area where we did have multi-year bookings and those are clearly longer in duration than you might otherwise expect.
And I would add in there we expect Missiles to probably have about 25% of their business is international and about 1/3 of SAS's bookings are international.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter conference call in April.
Chanel? Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chantile and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Chantile.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filing.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Before I discuss our first quarter results I wanted to say a few words about last week's tragedy at the Boston Marathon.
Monday April 15 wasn't just the day of the marathon it was the day we celebrated Patriots' Day in Massachusetts.
A holiday commemorating the first battles of the American Revolution in 1775 and made famous by the ride of Paul Revere.
It's a day of immense civic pride and community and the spirit and energy that pervade its many annual events are a unique part of what it is to be from Boston and Massachusetts.
Raytheon's been part of this community here since our founding over 90 years ago.
While our offices and operations were not impacted we have more than 12 000 employees in the state including some who participated in the Boston Marathon as runners volunteers and spectators.
In fact one of our local employees was at the finish line and seriously injured in the attack.
So for us this hit very close to home.
Our thoughts and prayers are with all the victims and their families and all of those who were affected.
I would like to thank the first responders for their swift and heroic efforts that saved many lives.
I also want to thank our hospitals and medical professionals for their truly amazing work.
The Boston area is blessed with some of the world's best hospitals and this has never been more evident than the past few days.
We are proud of Boston's Mayor Menino Governor Patrick local and state officials as well as federal government for their leadership and efforts in the aftermath of this incident.
The events of last week had a profound impact on our state.
But they brought out the best in our community.
From our local leadership to our first responders from the hundreds of volunteers to the thousands of people who have donated funding to the victims.
We've never been prouder to call Massachusetts home.
Now turning to our first quarter performance.
I'm pleased to report that Raytheon had another good quarter with sales margin EPS and cash flow all above our expectations.
The Raytheon team delivered solid results during the quarter continuing to lower our costs and improve our agility as well as providing affordable solutions for our customers.
International continues to be a key differentiator for the company.
In the first quarter our international business represented 26% of our total sales.
And after the close of the quarter we announced that the Republic of Korea selected Raytheon's Advanced Combat Radar or RACR to modernize its fleet of F-16s.
We expect a booking in the last half of this year.
This is a key competitive win and a meaningful validation of our international strategy as well as a confirmation of our leadership in AESA technology.
Importantly this win opens new opportunities domestically and international for our AESA products.
Our portfolio of international opportunities remains robust and includes Kuwait Patriot the Oman ground-based air defense system the Qatar [ph] air defense system Air Traffic Management as well as radars and missiles.
We are making considerable progress on these opportunities.
With the evolving threat environment and our customers' desire to acquire the most advanced technologies in the world we remain confident that international will continue to be strong for Raytheon.
The domestic market continues to evolve as well.
We were encouraged by the passage of the fiscal '13 defense budget as it averted a potentially harmful year-long CR and afforded our customers more flexibility.
New starts such as Space Fence and Air and Missile Defense Radar AMDR for example are important new opportunities for the company and will provide more advanced capabilities for our customers.
On April 10 the fiscal year '14 defense budget request was released.
While it did not comply with sequestration and is likely to undergo modification over the coming months it was a clear statement of DOD's priorities.
The focus continues to be on rebalancing to the Asia-Pacific region and our key mission areas such as missile defense EW and cyber which play to our strengths.
In addition as a technology company with a broad program base we benefit considerably from funding areas such as science and technology portion of the budget.
And this area fared well in the fiscal year '14 budget request.
We focus on growing small science and technology awards into substantial capabilities for our customers over time.
This is another important strength of the company.
In a couple of minutes Dave will talk about our updated guidance that now includes the effect of sequestration which is consistent with the 1% to 2% impact on sales that we discussed on the January call.
Importantly we've raised both our earnings per share and our cash flow outlook for the year.
Over the past 10 years we've been on a clear path to implement world-class processes and continuously improve our operation.
We're pressing forward with a number of initiatives.
In January we established our Global Business Services group.
GBS has given us the ability to more quickly integrate and streamline our processes and procedures across the company.
Additionally GBS is leveraging our innovative approach to common systems that enhance our working capital and operating profit performance.
They are on track to deliver planned productivity savings for 2013.
I'd like to take a moment and mention our March 25 announcement regarding consolidation.
The move is just another step on our path of continuous improvement.
While our businesses have always collaborated to provide the best solutions for the customer now we're aligned even better with our needs in future markets.
It provides greater synergy within our products and services and most of all increases our speed in responding to our customers' future needs.
For example we're moving the Command and Control business to IDS.
What we've seen are more of our international customers wanting an integrated solution and given IDS' strong international presence it's a natural fit.
In addition we're moving our commercial product lines -- or excuse me our communications product lines to SAS which has considerable expertise in the RF spectrum with its suite of radars.
For those of us who work in this area our advanced radars have the ability to handle multiple functions such as EW radar and communications.
We see the day when an AESA radar is just a multifunctional sensor.
Regarding our Land Combat Systems we're moving our ground-based EO/IR sensors to our missile business.
This will allow us to maximize integration of the ground sensor with the missile.
This combination consolidates the 2 capabilities and allows us to offer integrated solutions to our customers rather than individual products.
Lastly we combined IIS and RTSC to leverage the synergies they share in providing services to our customers.
This new business is structured to perform in a more competitive environment and better serve our customers going forward.
To help implement and manage these initiatives along with the day-to-day operating activities we have established a new position Chief Operating Officer and named Tom Kennedy to that position which was effective April 1.
Many of you know Tom from his most recent position as President of Raytheon's Integrated Defense Systems where he delivered outstanding operating results.
Tom's leadership skills and deep understanding of our technologies our customers and our global markets make him well qualified to fill this new important role.
Before concluding I'd like to point out that during the first quarter we announced a 10% increase in our dividend per share.
This marks the ninth consecutive year we've raised the dividend.
It remains an important component of our balanced capital deployment strategy and a reflection of the confidence in the financial strength and outlook for the company.
In conclusion I want to say how proud I am of the Raytheon team.
In a challenging environment their dedication and hard work have made it possible for the company to deliver these solid results and provide for the continued success of our customers.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the first quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I will be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
So if everyone would please turn to Page 3.
We're pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the first quarter.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.56 was up 5% and EPS from continuing operations of $1.49 was up 12%.
Adjusted operating margin was 13.2% up 10 basis points compared to last year's first quarter.
Sales of $5.9 billion were roughly in line with last year's first quarter and exceeded the high end of our expectations which I'll discuss further in just a moment.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations of $422 million was also better than our prior guidance the result of working capital.
During the quarter the company repurchased 4.2 million shares of common stock for $225 million.
We have updated our full year 2013 guidance which I'll discuss in more detail in a few minutes.
As previously announced effective April 1 2013 the company's structure was consolidated from 6 businesses to 4.
The company will report its financial results consistent with the new structure in the second quarter.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me start by providing some color on our first quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $3.6 billion in line with our internal plans.
As you may recall we had strong bookings in the back half of 2012 so on a trailing 4-quarter basis the book-to-bill is about 1.02.
As I mentioned on the January call we continue to see the order book back-end loaded for 2013 ramping up in mid-year similar to 2012.
From a cadence standpoint we expect the book-to-bill ratio to expand as we move through the year.
Notable bookings in the first quarter included $208 million at IDS to provide Patriot air missile defense capability for an international customer and $160 million to provide Patriot engineering services for the U.S.
and international customers.
Missile Systems booked $156 million for the production of rolling airframe missiles for the German Navy and $85 million on MALD a decoy program for the U.S.
Air Force.
NCS booked $126 million on the Wide Area Augmentation System program for the FAA.
Space and Airborne Systems booked $90 million for the production of AESA radars for the U.S.
Air Force.
Technical Services booked $135 million for foreign training and $64 million for domestic training in support of the Warfighter FOCUS Program.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $266 million and $184 million respectively on a number of classified contracts.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter was $33.5 billion compared to $36.2 billion at the end of 2012.
It's worth noting that approximately 36% of our backlog is comprised of international programs.
If you'd now move to Page 5.
Sales were essentially flat compared to the first quarter of 2012 and ahead of our first quarter guidance that we set in January.
As a reminder the first quarter of 2013 had 1 less workday than the first quarter of 2012 and this equates to about $100 million in sales.
Our domestic business declined by about 2% partially offset by our international business which grew approximately 2%.
Looking at sales by business.
All of our businesses had net sales that were at or above our expectations.
IDS had first quarter 2000 (sic) [2013] net sales of $1.3 billion an increase of 4% on a year-over-year basis.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales on a TPY-2 radar program for an international customer.
Missile Systems had first quarter 2013 net sales of $1.5 billion 8% -- up 8% from the comparable period last year.
The increase from prior year was primarily due to higher sales on the SM-3 and Rolling Airframe Missile programs.
IIS had net sales of $743 million and SAS had net sales of $1.2 billion both slightly lower than the same period last year primarily due to the timing of classified programs.
NCS had first quarter 2013 net sales of $931 million.
The expected decline in net sales was primarily driven by U.S.
Army production programs.
And Technical Services had net sales of $755 million down from the comparable period a year ago as a result of completing the Polar contract in the first quarter of last year.
Now moving ahead to Page 6.
We're pleased by our overall company margins once again showing a year-over-year increase driven by operational performance.
Our adjusted margin was up 10 basis points to 13.2%.
Our focus on execution productivity and efficiency continues to be reflected in our financial results.
So looking at the business margins.
IDS and SAS margins were up in the quarter compared with the same period last year.
Solid overall program performance drove improvements at both businesses as well as favorable mix.
13.3% margins at our Missiles business was in line with last year's first quarter.
At NCS the change in operating margin in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012 was driven by higher volume and net production efficiencies last year primarily on U.S.
Army programs.
And IIS and Technical Services margins were down slightly compared to the same period last year.
I'd like to take a moment to highlight our ongoing cost reduction initiatives in a little more detail.
We continue to move forward with a number of initiatives that are designed to improve efficiencies streamline our operations and lower our costs.
One of the earlier initiatives which I've spoken about on prior calls is strategic sourcing across our supply chain.
About half of our spend is on materials and subcontracting and since implementing this strategy we've generated hundreds of millions of dollars in savings much of which we've passed along to our customers.
Additionally over the last 2 years we've driven well in excess of $500 million of indirect costs out of the business including efficiencies in indirect labor reduced travel lower IT spending and reduced outside services.
We have also been aggressive with our core facility consolidation efforts.
From 2009 to 2012 we have reduced our total core square footage before acquisitions by approximately 1.5 million square feet.
Looking ahead we are targeting an additional 5% to 10% reduction in our existing floor space over a 3- to 5-year period.
More recently on January 17 we announced the formation of Global Business Services where we consolidated our shared services functions across the company.
This is also expected to drive significant efficiencies over the next several years.
And the next step in our ongoing effort to further optimize our operations is to finalize the consolidation of our 6 businesses to 4.
These are not isolated actions.
Rather they're part of a comprehensive plan to drive productivity across the company and we are not done.
These efforts are all working to drive increased affordability for our customers and importantly they benefit our shareholders as well by increasing our competitiveness and protecting or enhancing our financial returns.
If you'd move to Page 7.
First quarter 2013 adjusted EPS was $1.56 up 5%.
Although the increase was primarily driven by capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases we continue to drive strong operating performance which is reflected in our improved margins quarter-over-quarter.
And EPS from continuing operations of $1.49 was up 12% which includes the benefit of the full year 2012 R&amp;D tax credit as well as the first quarter impact of the 2013 credit.
If you would turn to Page 8 I'd like to briefly comment on our updated outlook for 2013 which now reflects our solid first quarter results as well as our current expectations for the impact of sequestration.
Although not on the page in January we mentioned our bookings outlook for 2013 was in the range of $24 billion plus or minus $500 million.
And now with sequestration we see the outlook for the year in the range of $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
We now see full year 2013 net sales to be in the range of between $23.2 billion and $23.7 billion.
The change of our sales outlook is consistent with the additional 1% to 2% estimated impact from sequestration that we discussed on the last earnings call in January.
We have raised our full year 2013 EPS guidance by $0.10 to a range of between $5.26 and $5.41 and on an adjusted basis to a range of between $5.75 and $5.90.
I'd like to point out that the impact from lower expected sales volume for the balance of the year due to sequestration is more than offset by the solid results we achieved in the first quarter.
We repurchased 4.2 million shares of common stock for $225 million in the quarter.
We continue to see our diluted share count to be in the range of between 324 million and 327 million shares for 2013.
As I mentioned earlier we generated strong operating cash flow in the quarter.
As a result we've increased our 2013 guidance for operating cash flow from continuing operations by $100 million and is now between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've included the change in our guidance by business.
The increase in margin guidance reflects the results from our continued efforts on productivity and efficiency initiatives as well as from our strong overall program execution.
Importantly we continue to pass back substantial savings to our customers.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales EPS and operating cash flow from continuing operations for the balance of this year.
In summary we saw good performance in the first quarter compared to both Q1 2012 and also the initial outlook for Q1 2013 that we provided in January.
While the environment remains challenging we continue to execute well driving solid operating performance.
We're in a good financial position with net debt of just over $700 million.
We raised our dividend 10% in the first quarter and are raising our EPS and cash flow guidance for 2013.
We remain well positioned with our domestic customers' priority areas and are well aligned with the evolving priorities of our global customers.
And we'll continue to drive the business to maximize value for all of our customers and our shareholders.
With that Bill and I will take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to drill down into the bookings a little bit and really focus on domestic.
Of course the international always bounce around and are usually strong at the end of the year.
But in just in looking at the last 5 years of data at least I don't see a quarter with below $5 billion of total bookings.
Obviously you're well below that level.
And I heard what you said about the ramp-up throughout the year.
I guess really the question is what gives you the confidence given that sequester just happened that you're going to see that sequential ramp on the domestic side? Joe bookings were always planned to ramp up throughout the year and Q1 actually played out a little bit better than what we were expecting.
We discussed on the January call that we had about $1 billion come in to last year's fourth quarter particularly in Missiles and our Missile Defense businesses.
So as I just said a moment ago we do expect the cadence of both domestic and international bookings to increase throughout the year.
If you look at the last 6 months given some of this timing our quarterly bookings averaged about $5.7 billion and over the trailing 4-quarter basis it was about $1.02 billion.
The cadence for this year is not dramatically different from what we saw last year.
I think with that Bill may want to add a couple of things.
Yes.
Joe I think the easiest way is to go through our businesses.
And IDS expects about half of their business to be international and those will be dominated by the Patriot awards.
We've got Kuwait that's finished the -- all the military reviews and has gone over to their parliament for final signature so we kind of see that in maybe the latter half of Q2 early part of Q3 we can touch it not an issue.
A little over $500 million.
Decision in Turkey probably in Q2 award latter half of this year.
At Qatar [ph] also late this year and that could be a couple billion.
We see Oman.
Oman has turned out nice for us.
They've already placed an order for AMRAAM.
So we see that tying together all the aero defense work there.
And domestically for them they've got naval radars some Aegis work and Zumwalt and then missile defense work and of course as I mentioned AMDR and Space Fence.
If we go over to IIS we don't see any composition change in their bookings.
Our customers shifted from yearly funding to quarterly funding now to monthly funding.
So that's kind of reflected in how we look at things and half of their awards are all driven by classified.
Missiles expects international bookings probably here in the second quarter on AMRAAM and Oman will be part of that.
Of course we see strong interest in RAM and Evolved Seasparrow.
Paveway Mideast I think you're aware and others are aware that Secretary Hagel is over talking packages with those countries.
So we expect Missiles to be in good shape.
Referring to NCS over 1/3 of their bookings were international and on the domestic side a number of opportunities.
In fact this morning the wire just announced that we won D-RAPCON which is a mobile air traffic control system.
Initial award $252 million we'll get a $50 million development contract.
And so that was planned probably in the first quarter.
It happens in the second quarter.
We all know bookings are lumpy but we look at them on a total basis and Dave kind of gave you some insight there.
SAS sees about 1/3 of their bookings international the biggest piece related to our tactical airborne radars and South Korea gives us a good start on that one.
And finally our Technical Services we see the range of training and logistics programs about 25% of that is international.
So that's a quick rundown in my mind going through the businesses.
And I got to remind everybody that 30% of our -- 30 of our contracts represent 1/4 of our business.
128 contracts represent the 50%.
And then if you look the last half of our sales are driven by 15 000 contracts that represent $1.5 million $2 million worth of business.
And that's this company and that's what makes it so strong because we convert those smaller programs into bigger programs later on in time and hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just one more number of the $23.5 billion this year how much of that do you expect to be international please? About 29% to 31%.
Of course that could be bigger.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bill I wondered if you could speak briefly on the Hagel strategic review and your views on -- I know it's tough to call likely findings but when we look at the recent change in posture and the pivot to the Pacific we've got -- a sort of recently redone defense strategy.
When you take that in mind and say what is it that Secretary Hagel is going to end up concluding? What do you think the focus of that review will be on? Does it -- is it more related to that strategy? Or is it more related to the realities of the budget and how we're going to prioritize spending? Any color you could provide would be really helpful.
Okay.
Let me take a shot.
I'm not in charge of the building so remember that when I give you my opinion.
I think having recently heard Deputy Secretary Dr.
Ash Carter speak clearly the department is trying to make sure that they're leaner they're more flexible they're agile they're going to be smaller and they're going have to be able to adapt.
And there is a focus on the Asia-Pacific region.
There's been 60 years of peace there.
And the United States wants to make sure our allies and our friends over there continue to enjoy another 60 years of peace.
That doesn't mean from a standpoint that the threat is China.
Some people predict it's more of how do we make sure that North Korea and others don't threaten the well-being of our friends and allies over there.
So I think part of the strategy is how do we do that.
Probably more of a focus on naval.
It'll be a repositioning of personnel probably in places they haven't been before but that's because they've been fighting a battle in Iraq or Afghanistan.
And so from my standpoint I think special ops are going to get more attention.
They're quicker.
I think companies are going to have to have technology and things they can put on the table rather than view graphs which appeals to us.
And I also see a real attention to cyber and I break the cyber down into 3 areas.
Those areas would be the network they would be in cyberweapons and they'd be in infrastructure.
And that's where part of the focus is going to be there.
And of course you all know that that's what we've been doing for the last 4 5 years here getting ready for what we thought was coming.
So I think there will be a strategy and then you tie your funds to your strategy no different than what you do in a company and I expect them to do that in a thoughtful way.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And one for Dave just quickly.
Dave can you clarify what the difference in year-over-year the contribution from net EAC cum catches was? On a net basis it was essentially flat.
It's around $140 million last year's first quarter and roughly $140 million this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more about the reorganization.
And I guess in terms of what the savings are and when do you net them? Because I'm assuming there's some costs you're planning in 2013 to actually get those savings.
And then when I project going forward how are we going to actually see some of those savings just because if I look at your selling and administrative costs or is it in cost of sales? Because selling and administrative costs seem to have stuck around 6.5% of sales or so for quite a while.
So Sam the savings are being driven primarily by the reduction in personnel costs as we go through the consolidation from 6 to 4.
And we streamline -- this is primarily around streamlining the leadership teams.
And as we noted in the press release we expect the action to affect about 200 employees.
So it's important to note that the impact to 2014 and '15 frankly from a financial perspective is de minimis because most of the savings are priced into our contracts and passed along to our customers.
In 2013 you have to account for the costs to implement the program the relocation the severance and so forth and that offsets the current year savings.
So fundamentally the restructuring is weighted more so than you may realize toward business leadership teams.
But again the driver here is primarily to more efficiently manage the operation and the business and serve the customer going forward.
Now with that said we will continue to drive efficiencies through supply chain actions and through indirect or overhead cost reductions.
I articulated some of that earlier during my comments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dave one more if I can add in.
Your capital spending was pretty light this quarter.
Do you still think you're going to be up close to flat year-over-year? We'll be flat to slightly down year-over-year.
We have a lot of focus on all the areas of spending and capital expenditures are not outside of the realm of what we're looking at.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Dave question on NCS understanding that as a segment we won't necessarily see this play out this way.
But you were down 7% in revs on the quarter and attributed that to the Army softness.
But the guidance for this segment which you provided suggests that this is really the trough quarter.
One is that correct? And two does that imply that we don't see further pressure in Army going forward here rest of the year? No.
Rob that's a good observation.
The full year 2013 does include -- already includes lower business with the U.S.
Army particularly around the sensor production programs.
This is offset and we have talked about this in the past and apparently you recall this is offset by growth on the international side particularly in the C4I area where we have substantial development work.
NCS as a business I would say Q1 could be viewed as the trough it's a fair way to look at it.
As we move through the year we see those businesses by and large expanding.
And I think equally important we see expansion from a margin standpoint as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other thing I wanted to ask you is just you talked about the buyback in the quarter and the share count that you're anticipating.
I don't know exactly how you ended the quarter and what the creep would be.
But given the range you might be close to the high end of that share count right? So we shouldn't infer from that that you're done buying back stock? Well first of all I wouldn't infer that we would end the year at the high end of the range.
But let me address that in just a second.
We do have a strong balance sheet and we continue to pursue a balanced capital deployment strategy.
And this guides our thinking about how we're returning value to shareholders.
We're continuing to invest in the business.
We're paying a strong dividend.
We're pursuing targeted M&amp;A.
And as you noted we're continuing to buy back shares.
We mentioned earlier that we raised the dividend 10% this year and we did raise it as a reminder 16% last year.
So importantly we do remain cognizant of what's in the best interest of our shareholders when it comes to capital deployment in general and our share repurchase plans more specifically.
And just to be clear we'll continually review these plans.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in the reorganization.
You've been in this segment structure for quite some time about 10 years.
I'm curious what was the catalyst that made you decide to make this change at this point? I think Doug you know us we have a strategy.
We've stuck to it.
We've tweaked a little bit here and there.
And as you look to the future clearly at least my take is that companies have to be more agile going forward.
The environment's changed.
Our customers need the ability to sit down with us at the table and work through things.
We were most recently in the Pentagon we went through some of us -- our programs.
I can tell you I really felt good having that meeting.
Our programs are doing extremely well if you look at our performance on cost and schedule indices.
It looks like a 12-gauge shotgun with a choke it's right around the sweet spot.
And I can't say everybody else is in the same position but I sure was thankful of Raytheon's.
So when you look at the organization it's how do we respond quicker how do we respond with affordable solutions and how do we continue to have the productivity gains that we've had on a year-over-year basis.
And we elected to make some changes and that was worked on by the senior leadership of the company.
We probably spent the better part of 9 months going through that to make sure we got it right.
Tom's on board watching it.
I can tell you it has gone extremely quick extremely well beyond my expectations.
And you know me I set some pretty high standards.
And so we're seeing things click and work in a way that is just what we want.
And especially internationally you've got to be able to go in and offer solutions.
Selling products just doesn't work.
And I think this new organization is going to help us do that.
And by the way sometimes change for change's sake is healthy.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then one competitive question.
MEADS has new life it appears.
Do you see this as having any potential impact on the Patriot outlook? Well let me start off by saying MEADS is not a Raytheon program.
The U.S.
Army has decided not to procure MEADS.
It made that decision some time ago and continues to state that decision.
The continued performance of Patriot contrasted with MEADS' long-standing cost overruns and schedule delays were the primary reason most members of Congress thought the program should be terminated early.
However the Pentagon has told them they face cancellation fees so the funds have been put in for the cancel -- for to finish the program so they don't have that particular thing.
So I guess the way to answer your question is Patriot has a long installed base.
It has numerous international customers and I don't lose any sleep at night whatsoever over the other program.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill or Dave I wanted to ask about margins long-term.
On the one hand you're doing a lot internally on the cost side that's proving successful; on the other hand presumably those cum catch numbers you talked about earlier don't sustain.
We're seeing better buying power version 2.0 come out of the Pentagon and it's unclear exactly what that means.
How sustainable are current margins 2 3 years out? And are there any segments specifically that look much different 2 or 3 years out? So Noah it's a good question.
We've discussed this in the past.
Frankly I've been here 7.5 years and I think I've discussed this for 7.5 years.
We...
I've been here 41.
This has been going on for 41.
Okay 41 years.
But we have continued to perform well.
We execute I would say best-in-class.
We continue to satisfy all customer requirements both domestically and internationally.
We've talked about our focus on productivity and cost efficiency and that's continuing to put us in a very good position from a competitive standpoint.
I mentioned earlier we have about 36% of our backlog with international customers and we continue to see that expanding over time.
The financial returns from an international perspective as a result of the risk associated with international business are -- it's typically higher than domestic business.
So I would say as we look forward we're continuing to see sustainability from a margin standpoint.
And I would say there would be upward pressure at some level from an overall margin profile.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
If I could just ask about one other item.
The Technical Services segment just bigger picture.
I mean this had 3 or 4 years in a row of double-digit and a few well in excess of 10% organic revenue growth years towards the end of the defense spending upturn.
It's been fairly resilient as spending has started to come down a little weaker this quarter.
Can you remind us or update us on what the handful of largest drivers are in that segment right now? And how do you think about when that one bottoms out? Yes.
It's -- first of all our Technical Service business really leads in the what I'll call the virtual live and constructive training.
They do that in a way that really leverages from our commercial side of the business there.
Many people don't realize that we provide the training for GM and Chrysler and Opel.
And if you dealt with the automobile industry you know that they're continually looking for price and value.
And so for us we find a way to do compression and education or training so we can basically take a program -- and compression means that we can take 20% or 30% out and increase the retention and deliver better results.
We've taken that and got it into our army training.
That training gets propagated into other areas it's expanding internationally.
But what we've all got to realize is that with sequestration you've got the Secretary and the Deputy they've got to worry about the budgets and how to make everything fit.
And so from my standpoint I think about it in a way that they look at personnel which is off-limits the President's decided that that's not going to be touched.
They're going to take care of mandatory things like nuclear deterrents and security concerns.
They're going to make sure they protect new programs that they want to go through.
And finally you get to people.
And so that department's going through some hard choices now with furloughs.
I think they've decided that it's going to be around 13 days.
In the next 3 or 4 weeks they got to decide if they're going to implement that or not.
And then you finally get to O&amp;M.
And O&amp;M especially if you're on the services side provides quick savings to the building.
And they're not canceling programs so it puts the focus there.
We think we've factored that correctly into our services business.
And as you point out it's resilient because they deliver good value and they're constantly realizing that we have to come up with savings to help our customers fit their budget.
So from our standpoint we're going over a speed bump right now that we think we forecasted correctly.
And then as we go forward we'll see where things go.
It's unlikely there is going to be any change in sequester in the next few months.
We assume it's going to take the full year.
The fiscal year '14 budget gives them -- Congress and the administration a chance for maybe a grand bargain.
We'll find out what happens here.
But we continue to work with our customers to help them prepare what's in front of them.
I hope that helps.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'll stick to just one.
It sounded like the bookings target for the year was lower by about $500 million.
The sales for this year is lower by about $400 million.
So the year-end backlog projection really doesn't move very much.
And I guess what I'm struggling with is where does sequestration actually hit you for '14 if it doesn't hit you in your year-end backlog? So as you -- as we go through this year and I'm not sure we addressed this earlier but it's primarily in our services businesses that backlog is impacted as a result of sequestration.
It's primarily IIS RTSC as well as some of the classified business in SAS.
By and large it's our quick-turn type business.
We've talked about the back half of the year being weighted from a booking cadence standpoint.
It's also heavily weighted to international.
So just to give you some additional perspective.
From a first half standpoint we expect to see a book-to-bill of under 1 say roughly about 0.9.
As you go to the back half of the year we see about 1.15.
And as we close out the year we see it just around 1 overall.
From an international standpoint we see the book-to-bill at about 1.05 to about 1.15.
So you can see how the cadence sort of is back-end weighted and the cadence is also weighted toward international.
Research Division</strong> I was just going to say am I right that your year-end projected backlog though didn't -- doesn't move with sequestration? The backlog is just about flat even including sequestration.
That's about right.
I mean it's -- yes that's the math.
Yes.
What people also have to remember some people expected the world to end with sequestration.
It happens over time it's a slow buildup.
And for me the world has changed and the area you worry about or you focus on is where you don't deliver a product is the easiest place to go get money or it's fungible.
So where you have programs or products or international which will continue anyway so you really worry about what I'll call the seats or positions you have on the service side.
And we've looked through that and we've got some strong programs and we think we've taken that into account as Dave pointed out.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back for a moment and talk about outlook and sort of your forecast.
If we look at the FY '13 budget and how it was constructed and then we look at the language that was appropriated it seems that in a number of cases you got awards and program funding that will be far in excess of where the original proposals were.
Could you sort of touch on that? It looks like it's in radar it looks like it's in ballistic missile defense.
And then I just have a follow-up related to that.
Howard you're right.
It's -- part of our philosophy here the company -- or the strategy is that our products or our services have got to both be forward-looking but they've also got to be backward-compatible.
So we look at what we do.
And in this world I think some of what we have is going to have to last longer.
And so when you think about an F-16 aircraft and you can put a new AMRAAM D on it and you can put an AESA Radar on it you have made that really a potent platform.
The other thing we see on the naval side are Zumwalt program what we've been able to do there with 11 or 12 new technologies that we put there.
We've been able to go backward-fit those.
And now given the shipbuilding performance the integration and where we see that going it really reaffirms to people that you can go both directions here.
So I think you've seen our existing product lines continue to grow.
And the thing we feel excited about and that's something I talked to Dr.
Carter about is that the Department is really going to worry about new starts.
The thing you have with -- you know this as well as I do old programs have many fathers and mothers.
New programs are like plants with shallow root structure that people can pull up.
But what leadership has to worry about is that those development programs are really the future.
And I see the building trying to protect those programs going forward which I think bodes well for the kind of work we do if that helps.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then -- absolutely.
And that's sort of the follow-up is that there are 3 big new starts that I can point to domestically: AMDR whatever happens with AESA Radar and -- well actually Space Fence and 4 if I count the Jammer as well.
How have you thought about factoring those? So if you win half of them do you end up in fact exceeding your bookings forecast? I think if we won half or more it would be good for the home team.
And of course Tom Kennedy's looking at me telling me it would be very good for the home team.
So it's one of those where we don't play would've could've should've.
And what that is is when we submit our proposals we give it our best shot and take into account everything we know.
And what we realize is that our customers don't buy technology for technology's sake.
They're really looking at what's the best value.
And the best value includes a lot of different things now.
One is energy consumption.
And when I started in this business nobody cared about energy consumption.
And so now when you look at some of these big radars or these systems is how much do you consume and how is that evaluated besides reliability maintainability and the rest of the -ilities.
So we feel good about where we're going.
And even in the technology arena for us they're not big jobs million dollars.
We're worried about a hybrid dish where you can go out in the field and have a sterling engine to be able to generate energy to use 50% less power.
Those are the kinds of things this company works on.
And they come in here we look at them we get excited.
And then the teams go off.
And I could talk about others.
We have a program that BBN's doing which is developing script-independent technology where we can transcribe handwritten documents.
We're the only ones in the country working on that from a DARPA point of view.
I could go on all morning about some of the neat things we're working on but that's how we see it.
But to answer your question yes it would be a good thing to win more than half of them.
Okay.
Your final question comes from the line of George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Bill I want to generalize a little bit here.
I mean if you look at the procurement and investment accounts for 2013 they're down about 15% from 2012.
So I really want to push.
I mean history would show that somebody as big as Raytheon even with the international exposure that you might be able to do somewhat better than that 15% decline.
It's hard to believe too that you'd be able to have a backlog flat at the end of the year with this year.
So I just wanted to push you a little bit more on that.
Well can I push back? Sure.
Okay.
Well George I think the thing of it is is you have to look at Raytheon's portfolio.
Extremely strong internationally.
And so that's growth that's not a decrease.
And then you look at as I mentioned 15 000 contracts make up half of our sales.
Those are $1.5 million to $2 million contracts and that's a real strength of what we do and we're a technology company and we believe we can compete with anybody in the world in that area.
And then you have to look at the budget that's going down.
There's always -- those are the cold spots.
You have to be able to look at the hot spots.
And so for us from a standpoint we think we're in the hot spots that's where we try to be.
We didn't go into Fed IT we talked about cyber before anybody could spell it.
And so part of what we have to do is make sure that we're at the forefront of that area.
And so that's why we think we can be as you say a book to bill of 1 which means you'd be flat on backlog.
And by the way if the international comes in stronger that's even better.
Yes.
I don't doubt that you can do better I just question whether you could do that much better.
And I would argue that 15 000 programs are a negative in the sense that in aggregate they've got to be subject to what's going on in the budget.
They all can't be separate from what's going on [indiscernible]...
Well that's part of the debate George.
And I guess we've given you our best guidance.
And I've been around here for a long time and I think Raytheon's been pretty accurate at least in my last 10 years about predicting where things were going to go.
Okay.
One nitpick...
And what you got to realize is we model all our 18 000 contracts and our 8 000 programs.
So we have a little bit of an advantage over you.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Well I guess we'll see where the year actually...
Yes.
That's okay.
We've been doing this for a long time so it's a healthy debate.
But I think what's really key here is you can detect no apprehension on what I'm telling you.
Yes.
And one for you Dave.
You continue to do better in the margins than I figure.
But in NCS anything unique in the first quarter where it was 9.6% and you're still guiding for the year to average up 200 bps from that? Yes.
So the decrease in the margin is due to the timing and the extent of the program improvements last year the mix of business and I may not have mentioned this earlier but it's important.
We made a significant acquisition at the end of last year and the acquisition costs associated with integrating that encryption technology business costs about 60 basis points in the first quarter and about 50 basis points on the year.
Now the mix does become more favorable as you go to the back half of the year and the timing of the efficiency improvements is also weighted to the second through fourth quarters in that business.
Okay.
Well that 60 bps gives me -- makes it certainly more feasible.
Thanks George.
And we'll just -- we'll talk at the end of the year.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speak with you again on our second quarter conference call in July.
Chantile? Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Frances.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief questions -- or brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
The company continued to perform well in the second quarter.
Sales margins EPS and cash flow were all ahead of expectation on strong international sales growth.
Our solid execution on productivity initiatives is helping to drive both our financial performance and our ability to provide affordable solutions for our customers.
Combining these initiatives with our technology investments and innovation yields a powerful strategy that continues to show positive results.
We remain confident in our overall outlook and have raised our EPS guidance for the year.
Let me take a minute to update you regarding the progress of our business consolidation efforts.
We've successfully consolidated from 6 businesses to 4.
Our investments in common systems have enabled us to move swiftly through the consolidation process.
We're ahead of plan and are already seeing tangible results.
With the new structure in place the team has been identifying additional opportunities to drive cost savings by streamlining product lines and reducing footprint and fixed costs.
Further we see potential for additional product synergies across the company.
We're pleased with the progress we've made and as always we're challenging our teams to do more.
In the U.S.
the debate surrounding near and long-term resource allocation to national security is ongoing.
Congress and the administration continue to work toward a compromise on the fiscal '14 budget and are not there yet.
Current versions of the budget don't include sequestration and barring some type of grand bargain the defense budget ultimately will need to be reconciled with the cap spelled out in the Budget Control Act of 2011 which is about $50 billion lower than the currently proposed levels.
The outcome remains unclear but as we've said all along we remain focused on executing our strategy and managing the business in order to deliver the best value for our customers and shareholders whatever the environment.
International continues to be a key driver of the business.
In the second quarter international grew by 10% compared to last year's second quarter and was 27% of total sales.
International also represents 26% of bookings in the quarter.
Last month as we've done many times in the past we attended one of the largest aerospace industry events in the world Paris Air Show.
We met with a number of international customers.
In fact Raytheon hosted over 1 400 guests and the largest number of delegations ever reflecting a 16% increase compared to the last time we were there in 2011.
This demonstrates the significant global interest we continue to see for our technology and our innovative solutions.
The timing of international awards is always difficult to peg with certainty.
In the quarter we made notable progress.
Oman ordered AMRAAM missiles for their ground-based air defense system and we're now in the final negotiations for the remaining part of the program.
We continue to make progress in both Qatar and Kuwait Patriot as well as both of which are expected in the second half of the year.
We were thrilled to be selected for the F-16 RACR program by South Korea early in the second quarter.
These are always tough competitions and we're awaiting word on the next one Taiwan's F-16 radar upgrade led by the U.S.
Air Force.
A decision is expected soon.
As some of you know we were expecting Next Generation Jammer program to be awarded in the second quarter.
Instead it occurred right after the close.
This was a key competitive win for the company and it solidifies Raytheon's position as a premier electronic warfare provider.
The Next Generation Jammer is a critical component of our enterprise-wide EW strategy which was launched back in 2011.
This strategy aligns us with our customers' evolving requirements to address the increasingly sophisticated anti-access and area denial threats that are emerging globally.
A significant factor behind our innovative approach to Next Gen Jammer competition was our ability to leverage the investments we've made in gallium nitride or GaN technology.
We've been investing in GaN for the past decade and our in-house technology development in this area is a huge competitive discriminator allowing us to increase the power and improve the efficiency of our offering.
And importantly this positions us well for future competitions.
While offering innovative solutions can be a competitive advantage making them affordable is equally as important.
The benefits we derive from our supply chain Global Business Services and recent business consolidation initiatives for example allow us to offer improved affordability for our customers without compromising our financial performance.
This is critical in today's economic environment where customers have limited resources available to achieve their missions.
Given this Raytheon's ability to execute is key and our continued solid operating performance is a testament to the dedication of the Raytheon team.
I want to thank them for all that they do for continually rising to the challenges and for remaining focused on our mission which is customer success.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the second quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I will be referring to the Web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
So if everyone could please move to Page 3.
We performed well in the second quarter.
Our adjusted EPS of $1.64 was up 4% driven by continued operational improvement and capital deployment actions.
Adjusted operating margin was 13.7% up 10 basis points compared to last year's second quarter.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted operating margin was 13.5% up 20 basis points.
Sales of $6.1 billion were up 2% compared with last year's second quarter.
We exceeded the high end of our prior guidance and I'll discuss the reasons in just a minute.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was approximately $200 million better than last year primarily due to the timing of our required pension contributions.
We're increasing our full year EPS guidance which I'll address further in just a few minutes as well along with other updates to our 2013 outlook.
During the quarter the company repurchased 3.4 million shares of common stock for $225 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 7.6 million shares for $450 million.
In the quarter we consolidated from 6 businesses to 4 and are now reporting in the new structure.
In the attachment that accompany the press release we've recast our historical results going back to 2011 to reflect the consolidation.
Just as a reminder we combined 2 of our former businesses IIS and RTSC to form the new Intelligence Information and Services business.
We also moved the previous NCS product lines to the remaining Raytheon businesses.
Additionally we realigned some of our smaller product lines across Raytheon to enhance complementary product areas.
These moves allow us to further streamline operations leverage customer synergies and reduce our overhead costs.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me start by providing some detail on our second quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $5.3 billion and on a year-to-date basis were $8.9 billion.
Second quarter bookings were impacted by the timing of a few potential awards including Next Gen Jammer Kuwait Patriot and Aegis multi-year.
Looking back at our trailing 4 quarters our book-to-bill is about 1 driven by our strong bookings in the back half of 2012.
As I mentioned on the last 2 calls we continue to see the order book back-end loaded for 2013.
We're making progress on a number of opportunities.
For example as we just discussed we were awarded Next Gen Jammer after the close of the quarter and we're in final negotiations on an air defense system for the country of Oman.
We expect the book-to-bill ratio to expand in the second half and our bookings outlook remains unchanged for the year.
For the quarter international was 26% of our total company bookings.
For the year we now expect international to be in the range of 30% to 32% of total company bookings.
Notable awards in the quarter included $543 million at Missile Systems for AMRAAM for the U.S.
Air Force U.S.
Navy and international customers.
MS also booked $228 million for SM-3 and $224 million on EKV both for the Missile Defense Agency as well as $132 million on Paveway for international customers and $98 million for the JSOW for the U.S.
Navy and international customers.
IIS booked $582 million for domestic training and $117 million for foreign training in support of the Warfighter FOCUS Program.
Integrated Defense Systems booked $93 million for in-service support for the Royal Australian Navy and $85 million on the Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System program for the FAA.
And Space and Airborne Systems booked $78 million for the production of electronic warfare systems for an international customer.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $252 million and $351 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Backlog at the end of the second quarter was $32.4 billion.
It's worth noting that approximately 37% of our backlog is from international programs.
If you now move to Page 5 we're pleased with our sales performance in the quarter which was ahead of our expectation and importantly driven by strong international performance.
Our international business increased by approximately 10% in the quarter.
This was partially offset by our domestic business which declined about 1%.
For the second quarter our international sales were approximately 27% of total sales.
Looking at the businesses all were at or above our expectations.
IDS had second quarter 2013 net sales of $1.7 billion up 9% from the comparable period last year.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales on various international air and missile defense programs.
IIS net sales of about $1.6 billion were essentially in line with the same period last year.
Missile Systems had second quarter 2013 net sales of $1.7 billion an increase of 7% on a year-over-year basis.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales on SM-3 and an international Paveway program.
And SAS had net sales of $1.6 billion down from the comparable period last year primarily due to the timing of classified programs.
Now moving ahead to Page 6.
We're pleased by the improvement in our overall company margins driven by program performance at IDS.
Our adjusted margin was 13.7% an increase of 10 basis points.
And on the year-to-date basis our margin was 13.5% up 20 basis points over the comparable period in 2012.
The strength in our underlying margin in the quarter was due to our continued focus on execution.
As I mentioned earlier we're pleased with the progress that we made with our consolidation initiative.
We've completed the initial phases of the business consolidation and have realigned our key product lines.
We believe these efforts will drive improved affordability for our customers and improve our competitiveness.
It bears noting that our consolidation efforts are only one element of our overall focus on productivity.
Other key aspects include strategic sourcing where we're optimizing our supply chain as well as our facility utilization efforts.
We are consolidating facilities to improve utilization and further reduce our fixed cost base.
So looking at the business margins all were in line or better than our expectations.
IDS's margin was up in the quarter compared with the same period last year.
Solid operational performance and favorable mix drove the improvement.
Margins for IIS and Missile were essentially in line with our expectations and SAS was slightly ahead.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
So if you now move to Page 7.
Second quarter 2013 adjusted EPS was $1.64 up 4%.
The increase was driven by operational improvement and capital deployment actions more specifically share repurchases.
And on a year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $3.20 up 5% from the same period last year.
On Page 8 I would like to briefly comment on our updated outlook for 2013.
Based on our performance year-to-date we have narrowed our sales guidance range raising the low end by $300 million.
We now expect our full year 2013 net sales to be in the range of between $23.5 billion and $23.7 billion with a bias towards the high end.
The second half of the year assumes impacts from both sequestration and now a continuing resolution in the fourth quarter.
You'll note that we raised our full year 2013 EPS guidance by $0.25 on the low end and by $0.20 on the high end.
We now expect to be between $5.51 and $5.61 and on an adjusted basis for adjusted EPS to be between $6 and $6.10.
The increase is essentially driven by performance and also includes about $0.05 from the expected benefits of our business consolidation.
Additionally we are projecting a slightly improved tax rate and a reduced share count.
During the quarter we repurchased 3.4 million shares of common stock for $225 million and on a year-to-date basis have purchased 7.6 million shares for $450 million.
Our strong cash generation does give us some flexibility with respect to near-term capital deployment actions.
Overall we've improved our outlook compared to the initial plan for 2013 that we first spoke to in January and this is reflected in our updated share count guidance.
In dollar terms we now expect share repurchases in the back half of the year to be modestly higher than in the first half of the year.
And although not on the page it's worth noting that we still see our bookings outlook for the year in the range of $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
This outlook is unchanged from our prior estimates.
Now if you turn to Page 9.
We've raised the low end of our sales guidance range for each of our businesses.
The increase in margin guidance reflects our strong overall program execution and productivity initiatives including the business consolidation.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales earnings per share and operating cash flow from continuing operations for the balance of 2013.
Now before we open it up for Q&amp;A let me summarize.
We saw solid operating performance in the second quarter and exceeded the sales EPS margin and operating cash flow guidance we provided back in April despite the challenging environment.
As we look to the balance of the year the pipeline of international and domestic opportunities is strong.
We continue to move forward with our productivity initiatives and are very pleased with our progress to date.
These efforts bode well for our customers and our shareholders and we're confident in our outlook for the year.
So with that Bill and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick ones.
First Dave on the IDS margin performance you called out in your prepared remarks both favorable mix and strong performance.
I wondered if you might parse that out a bit for us if you can to kind of separate the impact of mix versus what may have been some favorable EAC adjustments.
Sure so the performance is reflected in our EAC adjustments.
I appreciate the way you articulated the question.
And that's up for IDS it's up about $24 million in the quarter.
And as you just noted that business is also impacted by a change in mix driven by the strong international sales in the quarter.
The weighting of the improvement I would say is more towards the performance side than the mix side.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one for Bill just wondered if you'd expand a little bit more on Next Gen Jammer.
I mean obviously it seems like all we ever talked about these days is capital deployment and bookings but obviously it's a big competitive win for you guys.
And you hinted at how this would enhance your EW offering and future competitions.
I wondered if you might expand a little bit on that and how you see this impacting the business over the long term and in kind of general terms just interested in any color you can share there.
No it's a great question.
In 2011 we started really putting the focus on EW.
I mean clearly for us we are an electronics house AESAs and that type of technology is what we really kind of hug around here I guess no better way to say it.
And our SAS business out in California teaming up with our Missile business and our IDS business worked very hard on this offering.
I can add some color this Next Generation Jammer replaces the ALQ-99.
And for me it's a little personal.
It's the first program I ever worked on in Raytheon so it will tell you how long ALQ-99 has been around.
Bill it's not that long.
But it's -- when you think about it there aren't many opportunities like this.
This program is a program by executing it right people will be able to start and finish their careers on it.
And from that standpoint it's a hallmark program.
They don't come around that long.
The competition was conducted by NAVAIR who is probably one of the best in the business at evaluating technology and what they're looking for.
And clearly for us our GaN technology allowed us to meet the weight and the power requirements which were extremely difficult on this.
Why it was important I think is where you're coming from is back in '11 we saw that things were going to start winding down in Iraq and Afghanistan someday.
And when that happens our forward presence changes.
And when your forward presence changes now you have to think about the world differently how do you get in do what you have to do and get out without anyone getting hurt.
And electronic warfare is the way that you can do that.
You deny your enemy the capabilities that he needs to be able to deny you that access.
So for us we saw this and we've been working on it here for some time.
And I'm really proud of our SAS business because this was one of the toughest competitions around and everybody knew it was probably the last big one for some time in EW and it just solidifies us in that marketplace not only domestically but internationally.
And that was what was really key.
I hope that color helps.
Your next question will come from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bill I was wondering if you could -- I know you mentioned a couple of the international missile defense pursuits in your opening remarks.
But if we could just take a step back maybe if you could characterize the way you're looking at on a multi-year basis where we are in terms of international missile defense demand.
Is there a replacement cycle or an upgrade cycle that's going on here? How much of the strength that you're expecting to see in the second half of the year is really sustainable into 2014 and 2015? Where are we in this whole cycle? Yes I think the way I would say is that we are probably in the second or third inning if I wanted to relate it to a baseball game.
And from that standpoint there are still innings to play.
The nice part about Raytheon's portfolio whether it be the standard missile family whether it be our radar family in a sense of I affectionately call our big radars that we do dinosaurs.
They're one of a kind they are big and they do hang around for a long time but they also reflect the latest technology in the world.
Our TPY-2s are in demand for anyone that wants to be able to detect something.
They are the only radars like it in the world.
And the company has the ability now to remote launch which means if you can detect it someplace you can launch from another place.
And you tie that all together with command and control or your air and missile defense systems.
So for me this is early.
We see plenty of opportunities.
The Mid East even parts of Europe especially Asia too all need this capability.
So I feel pretty good about the company's ability to go do that.
And we've got a lot more innings to go play here.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's a lot earlier -- I was going to say a lot earlier in the game than I would've thought you would have said.
Is this about existing customers that we've seen the last couple of years coming back and buying more? Is it new technologies they are going to buying? How would you characterize that? I would characterize it from a standpoint that some have the capability and there's a lot that don't.
Some that have the capability one of the things if you have the infrastructure in place you have what we call P3I preplanned product improvements.
And we can help them in discrimination we can help them tie it in together into their net.
So it's -- there's many facets to missile defense.
And no one's at the stage of where the United States is.
That's why I probably put it in the early innings because you asked me about international.
If you had asked me domestically here we might provide them our radar too.
And we've got more standard missiles to deliver.
But the rest of the world needs to catch up to the U.S.
if that helps.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- it does.
And then just one quick one for Dave.
When you announced your restructuring in March you noted there will be $85 million of cost savings but it wasn't going to impact financial guidance.
I was wondering now that we see first half results if you could give us any sense as to where the realignment has impacted numbers and what we should be thinking about for the second half of the year in that regard as well? Sure.
So Tom Kennedy our recently appointed Executive Vice President and COO led the effort on the business consolidation.
We have exceeded our scheduled milestone objectives.
When I initially looked to 2013 I suggested that from a financial performance perspective the cost of implementation would essentially offset the financial benefits the savings.
Given what we've been able to accomplish we're now seeing about a $0.05 impact in a positive way for the year.
And that's included in our guidance.
There was a couple of cents in the second quarter and about $0.03 in the back half of the year.
Also our overall gross savings from the program we had initially set up a target of about $85 million and we are now well in excess of that number from a forecast standpoint.
Research Division</strong> And we're seeing that in segment operating income? That's a good question Joe.
You're seeing it across the board in the 4 segments.
Your next question will come from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow on that on the organization.
So the improvement in margins Dave you referred to that as partially due to improved performance and -- this is the guidance and partially due to the benefits of consolidation.
But if we consider that you've got onetime implementation costs associated with that for this year would we expect that the benefit is actually somewhat more than what we're seeing here and we should see that probably in the next year in '14? Well remember much of that and at some point all of that goes back to our customers.
And that's just the way this business works it's the way the industry works.
It does make us more competitive as we go forward.
There will be some benefit in 2014 but again there is a where away given the contracts expire and the new contracts come online and need to be negotiated with our new cost structure.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understanding that the fixed price component of your business has gone up some over time that benefit might be greater I would think than it would've been in the past in terms of...
That's correct.
That's a good way to think about it.
That's a fair way to think about it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then also on the organization I know Bill you've said in the past that the new structure gives you some synergies that are beyond costs basically the ability to do C4ISR better things like that that can work for international customers.
What I'm interested in here is how much more can that get you? You have a huge presence right now particularly in missile defense.
Where do you see the upside actually coming out by being able to integrate things better in this new organization? I think I saw -- I was at the Paris Air Show sat down with one of our customers I won't say which one or which business.
So we were sitting there.
And they have an existing contract.
They are going to be signing a new contract with us.
And we were at the table and they started to talk about a problem in one service another through a different service.
And all of a sudden they're sitting there and we have both right at the table and are underneath 1 person and it's fixed instantaneously.
There was no debate no nothing surface done finished.
And just -- it would've taken some coordination before to go through it and get the alignment.
And for me it just -- I just sat there and smiled for a minute and watched how nice it worked.
And it's not to say it wouldn't have been done in the past it would have but it took a little more coordination.
And now it's all integrated in 1 area in Command and Control and it's done.
And so it's just one example that's real that's right in my mind that I see.
And oh by the way domestically when we deal with the Navy in 1 area we used to have it in 2 separate businesses.
And now the Navy realizes we can pull it together because the 2 parts of the Navy didn't talk to each other.
And now they got us looking at it both ways and we're saving both sides money.
So I really do see it and I have concrete examples of it Your next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill just a quick one for you hopefully.
On the export front as you grow towards around 30% of revenues and potentially beyond that from export sales what sort of impact does this have on the structure of the firm and also the way that you manage risk? It's a great question because I have this theory that back when we were at 18% we went in and put some things in place to be able to handle 20%.
And then we set a goal for ourselves at 25% and we changed our structure a little bit to be able to do that.
And now we're getting to 30%.
And at each 5% increment we've seen a fundamental change in the way we have to do it.
And the way I would say is you have to think more globally than you have to think internationally.
And for that is how do we have a bigger presence in country? How do we make sure that our teams are on the ground and that we are integrated into the culture and the business climate that we do.
And I can tell you that Raytheon will be making a shift in how we look at our international business because 30% will happen and we'll be prepared for it.
And then as we get to that milestone we'll be thinking about 35% because you got to think in increments to go do it.
And there's not 1 cookie cutter approach because we've sold in 120 countries.
We have active about 82 now.
And that changes but our presence changes.
If you look at Saudi or Japan we've been there 50 years and that's a long time.
And we want to be there another 50.
And so each model is different because Japan you have trading companies; in the Mid East you need a presence.
So we are thinking of it and you'll probably hear changes about what we're going to go do to be able to handle that if that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
And just a quick follow up technical question on the Jammer program.
I see one of your competitors has protested the award.
Does that mean that you haven't actually started work on it yet? No what happens you're correct is when there's a protest in the first 10 days there's a stop work put out in that regard.
That's normal.
The NAVAIR will now go handle the protest with the GAO and one of the things that we are very comfortable about is NAVAIR is the best at doing this.
And they are very thorough.
And you have to look at the protest results that people have against them.
And this is not a competition that happened overnight.
They've seen us perform on kind of proof of principle contracts.
So NAVAIR has seen all 4 of us operate.
And we feel very comfortable in their selection.
Of course we are biased but we feel comfortable.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill I was going to ask if you could just give us an update on a couple of different programs.
This speaks to some of the things you've already addressed.
But Patriot for Turkey AMDR and then I was wondering if we should be concerned about Space Fence.
Yes I would say one they had a space command -- I'll start in reverse order.
Basically I've said they are ready to go.
They've made their selection and they can award.
I think part of the internal scanner review that DOD had they're going to go through and determine what they're going to do in this regard.
As an engineer I look at what Space Fence is trying to do when I think of the debris that's up in space and I think of all the assets whether they be commercial satellites whether they be the space station whatever is up there for any country people need to map that debris and be able to move things out of the way because I got to tell you losing a satellite or damaging the space station will pay for a Space Fence really quickly.
But people have to make the decision.
These are tough economic times.
And the department will go through that.
AMDR is due to be awarded this fall.
And from what we gather it's one of the Navy's top priorities.
It's survived all the reviews and we will see what happens in that regard.
I think your other one was Turkey.
Of course you can pick up the papers and see the thing that goes on political.
I mean it's one of the things we've lived with internationally.
Kuwait I'm surprised you didn't ask about it.
But Kuwait for example we have an LOA sitting on the Minister of Defense's desk.
And Parliament was dissolved and they will be forming a new Parliament July 27th.
And after that they'll put it together and then we'll expect the LOA to float forward and we'll get moving that way.
Regarding Turkey they have the same political unrest now.
They'll probably make a decision in the third quarter.
I think they've asked for proposals to be extended.
And then we'll take it from there.
But that's the nature of International business.
Research Division</strong> Dave just on that how much of those Patriot orders are in your booking? Or how do you figure those into the $23.5 billion you're talking about? And then the other thing I wanted to ask you is just on cash flow.
It looks like you brought forward some cash flow from Q3 just based on the guidance and the numbers you -- the way they adjusted is that correct? Yes that's correct.
That's right.
So on the first part it's -- it would be not very traditional for us to give out specifics on what program specifically are valued at in our guidance.
I will say that from a booking standpoint these are all significant awards from a value standpoint.
But in our guidance we factor the overall value quite a bit.
So -- and this can be anywhere from the 20% to 50% value of what the potential program might be depending on a lot of different probability estimates.
From a sales standpoint I would say some of these larger ones are not significant drivers in the back half from a sales standpoint.
So that's kind of the way to think about some of these international Patriot programs that Bill just took us through.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I was asking from the bookings perspective but you answered it.
Your next question will come from the line of Yair Reiner from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about the guidance for the back half of the year.
It implies a pretty sharp drop off in terms of the revenue momentum across the business.
I know you attributed that to sequestration and potentially a CR in the fourth quarter.
I'm wondering to what extent is that reflected in what you're seeing today in -- across your businesses? Or is that just an anticipation of the fact that eventually the budget needs to kick in? Okay.
So again the way you framed the question is accurate.
The second half does reflect our current thinking relative to the impact of sequestration and the continuing resolution in the fourth quarter of the calendar year.
So if we see things differently going forward obviously we will update the outlook.
I mean what we're seeing today kind of represents the way we see things playing out from a sales cadence standpoint.
I do want to mention that I did speak to our bias earlier in the discussion being to the high end of the range.
It's probably worth noting -- I'll say it's most definitely worth noting that from an internal perspective we do have targets for sale that exceed the high end of our guidance.
But at this stage we believe that the guidance we put out is a prudent way to look at it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick one on the tax rate.
Is the decline there reflective of the international mix? And if so should we expect that there's going to be a downward bias on that moving forward? Sure.
We have a number of tax planning initiatives that are taking place.
And the tax group has done an excellent job in managing our tax obligations.
We did take the rate down about 50 basis points from an ETR standpoint for the balance -- for 2013 versus where we were thinking a few months back.
Going forward I'd suggest that you can think about the tax rate in that general range.
Your next question will come from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the -- revisiting the booking side I just want to make sure I'm doing the math correctly that you're basically assuming for the full year that domestic bookings are down around 20% and offset by about 20% growth in international.
And if so what does that mean Dave for advances in the back half of the year if some of these international awards that you're anticipating actually come through? Well advances have been pretty consistent year in and year out relative to our direct commercial sales with international customers.
Again when we look at those and we think about how they might impact cash flow for the year it's also factored.
So we're comfortable with the range that we've put out there.
From a cash flow standpoint again I probably should have mentioned this earlier we are also biased toward the higher end of the cash flow guidance.
One thing I do want to remind everyone of is that this year there is some ramping down of advances given some of the strength in 2012 and we'll see how things play out.
But again overall again there's a lot of different moving parts here.
We factor everything and are quite comfortable with the outlook.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was that on domestic bookings? Is that why you were expecting about 20% decline in domestic bookings this year? Well let me just -- let me walk through this briefly.
So from a -- on a full year basis with respect to the overall domestic bookings as a percent of the total we see it in the 68% to 70% range when we close out the year.
And importantly Bill mentioned this earlier we see international in the 30% to 32% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you give the EAC number for the quarter yet? The EAC number no I haven't.
And I knew you were going to ask before you got off this call.
The EAC number for the quarter approximates about 2.6% of sales.
And the overall number is I believe about -- I don't have it in front of me about $156 million positive.
Your next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave just related to the comment about sales being towards the high end this year I guess what got better to get the additional $300 million? And can you talk just in terms of what that implies for U.S.
DOD non-DOD and non-U.S.
growth this year? Sure.
Well it's again the strength of our overall international business.
And it's clearly what drove the second quarter results from a sales standpoint.
And a good portion of that does flow through to the year.
So on an overall basis for the year from a domestic standpoint we're seeing the sales profile down about 6% to 7%.
And from an international standpoint we're seeing sales up about 6% to 7%.
And I suppose that's the law of large numbers that they're the exact same percent.
But for the company the guidance for sales is down in the range of the 3% to 4% area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I look at your -- the outlook for the margins certainly it has implied the second half as a big step down and I guess mostly in IDS.
Can you talk about why that's coming down so much? Yes.
So we did have strong margins in the quarter.
And you are correct specifically at IDS.
In the back half margins still remain strong but lower than the first half given the cadence of our efficiencies which are weighted to the first half as well as some new programs starting up and some of our longer duration production programs ramping down.
It's important to point out that we did increase the full year outlook for margins.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one last question for Bill just on that AMDR competition.
Does the result of the combat systems engineering decision earlier in the year have any bearing on that? Or is there any way to get insight into how that might play out? The initial one I mean when you look at it that was for the overall weapons system.
And clearly Lockheed had a nice win there but they've been doing that since the whole thing started.
So to displace somebody that's been doing something for 30 years really gets hard.
AMDR it's hard also but it's a brand new radar.
And there what the customers are looking for is innovation.
They're looking for detection capability they're looking at discrimination capability.
And for that one it is different and the playing field is I'd want to say a little more level in that regard of being able to compete.
But it's an S-band radar and we're -- we like to win everything in X-band so this is a new area for us to go off in.
And we're trying to take on an incumbent which is always hard.
Your next question will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Bill you mentioned Taiwan AESA radar.
What's the timing on that? And what's the sequencing that you expect between the U.S.
Air Force decision on the F-16 radar and Taiwan's? I expect that anytime soon Cai.
I mean it could have happened already but it didn't.
It just takes a while to get things through.
And of course the building is trying to balance a bunch of things now.
So it could be anytime.
I think they have everything in there.
I think from the point of view these South Koreans determined that they were going to do it on their timetable.
And they went through one of the toughest competitions that I've seen and they selected us.
And now the Air Force will select for Taiwan.
They've asked Taiwan to go do that.
And it looks like the international world is updating their F-16s before the U.S.
will update theirs.
It's the way I'd describe the timing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the Air Force will decide.
So if the Air Force decides for you or brand X that's probably what the Air Force ultimately will buy.
Is that one way of thinking of it? Not necessarily.
I mean this is a competitive world.
We thrive on competition here we don't run from it.
So I would imagine that if they can compete Taiwan then they can go compete U.S.
radars and we are ready to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And Dave one for you a number of your peers have talked about pension some of them better prospects for next year some of them maybe not as good because of the impact of the uptick in rates.
Could you comment on what you see based on where we are today and particularly your -- as I recall your pension contributions were going to go up next year and the impact on your contributions for next year? Sure.
I'm glad you asked the question.
In 2013 the FAS/CAS adjustment is expected to be around $286 million.
Looking further out there's a number of variables that obviously impact the FAS/CAS adjustment and the funding requirements including the discount rates the return on assets and other actuarial assumptions the cash harmonization rules and the pension funding stabilization law as part of PPA.
Now if rates remain flat if we hold all assumptions constant our FAS/CAS adjustment in 2014 could be $100 million to $150 million less than 2013.
So that's a positive pickup from a financial results standpoint.
Looking beyond '14 we see the FAS/CAS adjustment.
It could become favorable in 2015 possibly as much as $350 million to $400 million positive again assuming no change in the discount rates and assuming we meet our expected returns.
And when I say no change I'm taking 2013 as the baseline.
Now if we set the discount rate today sort of as we're sitting here it would likely be 50 to 75 basis points higher than what we're using in '13 the point at the end of 2012.
And again it's for 2013 results.
But if they were to increase about 50 basis points it would additionally improve our FAS/CAS in 2014 and beyond by maybe upwards of $200 million each year assuming the discount rate in the environment persists.
So let me get a little more specific and I know I'm being lengthy here but a number of folks have asked.
Our 2014 FAS/CAS again with a higher interest rate environment the 2014 FAS/CAS adjustment could be $250 million to $350 million less than what we're seeing in '13.
And looking beyond '14 the FAS/CAS adjustment again becomes favorable in '15 and could be as much as $0.5 billion and that's positive.
Again that's assuming that the interest rate environment persists at about 50 to 75 basis points higher than where we are today.
So from a funding standpoint if interest rates again stay at this level that I just suggested where we are today the net funding is about breakeven for next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you say net so basically would you contribute less CAS? Well this is what happens.
Essentially we have the gross funding and then you have the CAS reimbursement essentially through the contract actions.
And frankly whether interest rates stay up or interest rates stay where they are in -- where they were in the beginning of '13 the net funding contribution is about breakeven next year.
So it doesn't really move it that much.
LLC Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up Northrop mentioned that the impact of higher rates had an adverse impact on their return on assets year-to-date.
They were only up 50 bps through the end of June.
What's your ROA look like year-to-date? So yes they may be heavily weighted into fixed income and other interest sensitive investments.
I don't know that but that may be the case.
For us I would say more than on a year-to-date basis but as of just a couple of days ago we were just under 8% return on assets.
Frances we have time for one more question.
And that question will come from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to step back and ask a bigger picture question.
And Bill and Dave you can both weigh in or one of you.
As we look at the orders that you've taken or the bookings that you've gotten this year obviously the revenue streams that we're going to see out in the future.
I just wondered if you could just talk a little bit about the margin expectations on those bookings.
And maybe you can do that by talking about the contract mix itself and whether it represents a departure from your current revenue streams.
Just harkening back to the beginning of the year when you talked a little bit about your margins for 2013 being negative impact -- having a negative impact due to some more development work.
And obviously you've just now signed on some development work.
We don't have a good understanding of the rest of the bookings that you just made.
If you could just talk a bit about how your contract mix may or may not be changing as we move out over the next several quarters.
Yes I think what's important is what I tried to talk about a little bit that we look at international being 30% to 32% I think those are the numbers that Dave gave there.
So when you look at international clearly for us we understand that marketplace.
We understand it because we know the risks that are in there.
And part of our responsibility is to be able to mitigate those risks as we go through the program.
So on international we start slower retire the risks and then build up as we get towards the end.
I don't see that changing in the way we do it.
We go through every one of the bids here to make sure that they take place in the same manner.
But what we also do is -- a key thing for us is affordability.
So as we look at a tougher environment how do we make sure that we are able to deliver at an affordable price but at the same time deliver the kind of margins you all expect from us as investors.
So that's absolutely key.
Clearly the development programs that you get into whether they be Next Generation Jammer whether they be AMDR or Space Fence those also start lower but those turn into much like what Zumwalt was years ago for us.
It started low and then turned into the production for the 3 ships there and have the regular margins you expect for us.
So there's always an ebb and flow and Dave takes that into account.
He and his team do a great job at modeling not only what we have in the business but what we're looking at in the future of the business so that we can make sure there's no surprises coming because one of the things that we try to be is transparent as we look at that going forward.
So there is an ebb and flow there but I would tell you we have our foot on the throttle here from a standpoint of what we can do because we know what we're bidding.
And the bidding philosophy in this company has not changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And specifically to international and some of these missile defense systems that you've signed here late and you said that you're in the second or third innings so clearly there's more to go.
Will there be a need for incremental development work to be done on any of those systems to fit international requirements? Yes we always do that.
And then the other thing is that we as a company are never satisfied.
We can find ways to continue -- one of the things that's tough is O&amp;M.
And a lot of people don't think about maintenance.
And our engineers look at the total life cycle and they're constantly trying to find ways to reduce the O&amp;M costs or operating costs in our customers.
So if we can take devices or technology -- I mean when you look at Patriot the Patriot I started on is not the Patriot we're delivering today.
2/3 of it was redesigned for U.A.E.
And as we keep delivering Patriot we keep upgrading it.
And oh by the way once you upgrade it you can go back to all your other customers and offer them the upgraded hardware to reduce their costs reduce the spare content and so forth.
So it's a never ending opportunity for us here at Raytheon.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking to you again on our third quarter conference call in October.
Frances back to you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Frances.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Let me start off first by congratulating the Red Sox and the organization on their win last night.
Some of us were up a little bit late.
But I'm pleased to report that Raytheon delivered solid operating performance in the third quarter.
Our sales margins EPS and cash flow were all ahead of expectation.
As the business continues to execute well in the quarter and going forward further our productivity initiatives continue to gain traction and deliver results driving improved affordability for our customers.
Bookings were $5.7 billion and we ended the quarter with a book-to-bill just under 1.
As we look to the end of the year we have a number of large domestic and international opportunities that we're targeting and we continue to see solid demand from the global market for our broad portfolio of advanced solutions.
Before we get into more details regarding the quarter I'd like to talk about the realities of the budget environment.
As you know the U.S.
government was shut down for 16 days this month and we're operating under a sequestration and yet another CR.
To call this a very challenging environment would be an understatement.
Clearly this is not the way we'd prefer the budget process to operate.
No one wants to have to manage their strategic business plans under such circumstances.
But by working closely with our customers and focusing on performance we continue to deliver the solutions our customers need.
That said we weren't completely unaffected by the shutdown.
A number of our employees were impacted.
This was largely related to our non-DOD or civil business which provides direct support to our customers.
In particular the area of the company most affected was our Federal Aviation Administration training programs.
Financially the shutdown impact was minimal and has been captured in our updated financial guidance.
But personally the situation was hard on the individuals and the government and the industry who devoted their entire careers to supporting our nation.
And while a larger company such as Raytheon have the ability to mitigate the impact to our workforces our industry supply base does not.
These companies are often small and minority owned don't have the same resources or flexibility to weather these ongoing budget storms.
So while we're pleased that the Congress and the administration have resolved the most recent budget stalemate we continue to call on them to put an end to the budget paralysis in Washington.
We need to reach a lasting bipartisan solution to ensure our nation's long-term fiscal stability without requiring shutdowns CRs and sequestration.
Without a long-term solution we face continued workforce uncertainty.
In the meantime it's incumbent upon us at Raytheon to effectively manage our company in this environment.
This means continuing to focus on the fundamentals and executing our differentiated strategy.
It's what we do.
And once again this focus is yielding results that are evident in our operating performance.
As noted in our earnings release this morning we're raising our guidance for sales EPS and cash flow for the year.
This kind of performance doesn't just happen rather it's a function of a dedicated team working every day to find new ways to improve to lower our cost and to respond more quickly to our customers' needs.
As most of you know when we're faced with competition we embrace it and strive to deliver world-class technology at an affordable price.
A good example of this is our gallium nitride or GaN technology a long-term investment we made years ago that is now helping us win key programs like the Next Generation Jammer.
And earlier this month we were notified by the Navy that we turned in an outstanding proposal and we're selected for the new Air and Missile Defense Radar or AMDR.
AMDR is the radar system for the next generation of destroyers for the U.S.
Navy which will provide greatly improved missile defense capability compared to today's systems.
Our competitive wins on AMDR and Next Jammer -- the Next Generation Jammer are credit to the Raytheon team and to our strategic vision which is driving the investment technology and operational decisions today that will support our competitiveness in the future.
I probably should mention that both of these competition -- competitive awards are currently under protest but that seems to be the new normal.
Moving on we're also successful executing our international strategy that is providing significant long-term growth potential.
Our international sales this quarter grew by 6% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
International represents 27% of our total revenue in the quarter.
And for the year we expect international to be in the 27% to 29% of total sales.
The growth we are experiencing in our international business partially offsets the decline we're seeing in our domestic business as a result of sequestration and CRs.
We expect strong international bookings for the year and we have several large awards remaining that have well-defined milestone past the completion.
With my more than 40 years of experience in the international market I've learned that the timing of these binary awards is more often an art than it is a science.
It's just the nature of doing business with international customers.
While a shift in a milestone of a few weeks can impact timing award it doesn't change our confidence in the award occurring.
One encouraging sign that could have a positive impact on international business is the recent change in how the government views export regulation.
Transitioning oversight from certain defense-related products from the Department of State to Department of Commerce should shorten the timeframe in which we're able to provide solutions to international partners.
As a result over time this should allow the U.S.
industry to compete more effectively and do business more efficiently in the highly competitive and expansive [ph] global marketplace.
We also see our DOD customers leaning forward to help more on international sales.
For many of you who have followed Raytheon over the years you know us as a company that has historically adapted our strategy and leveraged our technology in order to maximize value for our customers and shareholders.
Looking ahead we continue to evolve our strategy and are building upon these successes.
We're managing through the challenges of today's environment and we remain focused on the opportunities of tomorrow.
We have a proven strategy best-in-class capabilities and an outstanding team to meet our customers' needs.
I'd like to thank the entire Raytheon team for helping drive these solid results and for maintaining its focus on our customer during the time of continued challenge and change.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the third quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slide that we issued earlier this morning.
Everyone would please move to Page 3.
We are pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the third quarter.
For the quarter our sales EPS and operating cash flow from continuing operations all came in higher than the guidance we provided you back in July.
EPS and adjusted EPS for the third quarter were consistent with last year's third quarter and on a year-to-date basis are running ahead of last year's comparable period.
Adjusted operating margin was 13.7% reflecting continued strong performance for the company and year-to-date up 10 basis points to 13.6%.
We slightly exceeded the high end of our prior guidance on sales of $5.8 billion down 3% compared with last year's third quarter.
On a year-to-date basis sales were down less than 1%.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was approximately $895 million which also exceeded our prior guidance due to strong collections a portion of which was timing from Q4.
And on a year-to-date basis operating cash flow from continuing operations is over $300 million higher than the comparable period last year.
We're increasing our full year sales EPS and operating cash flow guidance which I'll address further in a few minutes along with other updates to our 2013 outlook.
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $225 million bringing our year-to-date share repurchases to 10.5 million shares for $675 million and we ended the quarter with net debt of just over $800 million.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me start by providing some detail on our third quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $5.7 billion and on a year-to-date basis were $14.6 billion.
As we've mentioned on prior calls bookings are weighted to the latter part of the year.
We continue to expect strong fourth quarter awards driven in large part by international opportunities.
For the quarter international was 15% of our total company bookings and on a year-to-date basis was 23%.
For the year we expect international to be in the range of 30% to 32% of total bookings.
Notable awards in the quarter included $312 million at Missile Systems for SM-3 for Missile Defense Agency; $232 million for AIM-9X Sidewinder short-range air-to-air missiles for the U.S.
Navy U.S.
Air Force and international customers; $222 million for Standard Missile-6 for the U.S.
Navy; and $177 million for Phalanx Weapon Systems for the U.S.
Navy and international customers.
Integrated Defense Systems booked $353 million on the Aegis weapons system for the U.S.
Navy and $84 million on an international radar contract.
IIS booked $253 million to design develop and deliver technical training for a commercial customer and $162 million on a contract to provide intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance support to the U.S.
Air Force.
IIS also booked $145 million on domestic training programs and $85 million on foreign training programs in support of Warfighter FOCUS activities and $87 million for a ground control system program for the U.S.
Air Force.
And Space and Airborne Systems booked $271 million to develop the Next Generation Jammer for the U.S.
Navy and $170 million on the Joint Polar Satellite System program for NASA.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $417 million and $164 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Okay.
If you'd now move to Page 5 our sales performance in the quarter was ahead of guidance driven by strong international performance.
International sales increased approximately 6% in the quarter and were approximately 27% of total sales.
Our domestic business declined by about 6% and total company sales were down 3% in the quarter.
Looking at the businesses.
Each of the 4 either met or exceeded our expectations.
IDS had third quarter 2013 net sales of $1.6 billion in line with the same period last year.
IIS net sales $1.5 billion were down slightly from the same period last year primarily due to lower volume on classified and training programs.
Missile Systems had third quarter 2013 net sales of $1.6 billion also down slightly on a year-over-year basis.
The change was primarily due to lower sales on U.S.
Army sensor programs.
And SAS had net sales of $1.6 billion lower than the comparable period last year primarily due to reduced volume on some of our ISR and classified programs.
Moving ahead to Page 6.
We're pleased by the strength of our overall company margins.
Our adjusted margin was 13.7%.
And on a year-to-date basis our adjusted margin was 13.6% up 10 basis points over the comparable period in 2012.
The strength in our underlying margin in the quarter was due to a combination of our broad business base particularly international the timing of performance improvements and our overall execution.
Over the past several quarters we've provided you with updates on our cost efficiency and productivity initiatives including supply chain optimization and the business unit consolidation.
These initiatives are ongoing.
The business unit consolidation efforts remained ahead of plan and in the third quarter we took the next steps by consolidating a number of our product lines within the new organizational structure.
The cost savings that result from these efforts help drive our competitiveness an important factor in our recent wins.
So looking at business margins all were in line or better than our expectations.
IDS IIS and SAS margins were all up in the quarter compared with the same period last year.
Solid operational performance and favorable mix drove the improvements.
At missiles the margin was essentially in line with our expectations but lower than the same period last year primarily due to a change in contract mix.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
If you'd move to Page 7 third quarter 2013 adjusted EPS was $1.60 and on a year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $4.80 up 3% from the same period last year.
The year-to-date increase was driven by capital deployment actions more specifically share repurchases.
On Page 8 I'd like to briefly comment on our updated outlook for 2013.
Based on our performance through the third quarter we are increasing our sales guidance by $100 million.
We now expect full year 2013 net sales to be in the range of between $23.6 billion and $23.8 billion.
Our guidance includes impacts from sequestration a continuing resolution from the recent government shutdown.
And as we've done in prior years during the third quarter we updated our actuarial estimates related to our pension plans.
As a result of the update FAS/CAS pension expense for the year decreased by $31 million from $286 million to $255 million.
We increased our adjusted EPS guidance for the year by $0.10 to reflect the strong performance through the end of the third quarter.
We see adjusted EPS of between $6.10 and $6.20.
You should note that we also increased our 2013 guidance for GAAP EPS to between $5.67 and $5.77 which includes both the expected margin improvement for the year as well as the impact of the updated full year FAS/CAS pension expense.
As I mentioned earlier we generated strong operating cash flow in the quarter.
As a result we have increased our 2013 guidance for operating cash flow from continuing operations by $100 million and it's now between $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion.
And although not on the page it's worth noting that we continue to see our bookings outlook for the year at about $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
This outlook remains unchanged from our prior estimates.
However given sequestration and the shutdown we are now biased toward the lower end of the estimate.
On Page 9 we've included our guidance by business.
We increased the sales range by $100 million for missiles reflecting stronger-than-expected performance through the first 3 quarters of this year.
The increase in margin guidance reflects our strong overall program execution and productivity initiatives to date again including the business consolidation.
So if you could please move to Page 10.
We've provided a FAS/CAS pension adjustment matrix for 2014 the same as we've done in prior years.
Now just to be clear the discount rate and the actual asset returns won't be known until we close out 2013.
It is worth noting that given the current interest rate environment we expect to see improvement to the FAS/CAS expense in 2014 compared to 2013 and to our prior outlook for 2014.
Before we open it up for Q&amp;A let me summarize.
The company continues to perform well in a tough and uncertain environment.
We saw solid operating performance in the quarter and exceeded the sales EPS and operating cash flow guidance we provided back in July.
We continue to have a strong balance sheet with net debt of just over $800 million which gives us considerable flexibility to operate effectively in the current environment.
We are raising our sales EPS and cash flow guidance for 2013.
We remain well positioned with our domestic customers' priority areas and continue to be aligned with the evolving priorities of our global customers.
Our overall execution productivity initiatives and our focus on customer missions allow us to remain confident going forward.
With that Bill and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just on the bookings that you're expecting for Q4 Bill if you wouldn't mind reminding us of what -- you mentioned a few times there are some milestones that you [ph] put sanitized.
It is an art not a science but what are you looking for to come through? And obviously let's focus in particular on IDS? Sounds good.
As I said in my opening remarks we do expect strong bookings for the year particularly international and there's several significant awards that we anticipate in the quarter.
As I mentioned every one of them has got a milestone plan that's associated with them.
They're reviewed daily or weekly depending on the business or the program.
And I'm glad you mentioned more of an art than a science and so I'll take you through the businesses because I think it's a better way to look at it and I'll start with IDS since you mentioned it.
IDS makes up about half of our expected Q4 bookings.
I'll give you a range of about $4 billion or $5 billion worth of programs we're tracking.
2/3 of their bookings are international really driven by a few large air and missile defense awards.
Kuwait I would start as the first one a couple of fire [ph] units.
It's currently moving through the parliament.
It's been approved by the Ministry of Defense.
And from our standpoint everything is lined up for that to happen.
They go through a process of reviewing it.
Once they're done with that the paperwork will come back to the U.S.
and it will be signed and will be off and moving.
In Oman we're currently in negotiations for ground-based portion of the system.
As you'll recall Oman ordered AMRAAM missiles for their system in the second quarter and we're working through the final details with them on that.
Qatar is procuring a comprehensive missile defense system in phases with Patriot and C2 being in the first phase.
The CN was approved through Congress and the LOA was delivered in August of this year.
So we're working with them and the U.S.
government and the details of the LOA are working towards an award by the end of this year.
And then domestically the other balance of course I mentioned AMDR but we're also expecting another let me say $400 million to $500 million worth of domestic missile defense awards.
So that kind of makes up the $4 billion to $5 billion in IDS.
If we look at IIS the fourth quarter bookings should be about $1.5 billion plus or minus.
These are really driven by about $650 million in classified awards.
Included in there is an international award that we'll announce and the balance is really driven by training in space and engineering service programs.
Missiles expect about $1.5 billion in Q4 plus or minus.
We see bookings there for RAM Paveway SM and a potential TOW award.
And on the domestic side we expect orders for Standard Missile-3 in our core programs including Phalanx RAM and JSOW.
And finally SAS about $2 billion plus or minus.
30% of those will be in internationally primarily driven by tactical airborne radars about 20% in classified and CRAD areas and the remainder spread across our Air Force and Navy awards attributable to tactical airborne systems ISR and communications.
That should give you a pretty good handle of the -- what we see in front of us finishing out the year.
And hopefully we won't get any more roadblocks thrown in front of us.
The shutdown really took about 0.5 month out of everything and delayed everything but we're moving forward and got a good pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
I just had one quick one for Dave.
IIS margins looking a little perky.
And maybe that's the...
That's [indiscernible] Research Division</strong> It's a good word right? You haven't gotten that one before.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well you popped your head out with it.
A 9% -- up over the 9% level there.
So is this sustainable or is this recovery of some of your restructuring cost? Because of course that's where most of the restructuring took place.
How should we think about that? Yes.
So Lynn Dugle continues to do an excellent job managing that business and the consolidation.
The third quarter margins were driven by improved program efficiencies across the business and that supported the increase in the full year margin guidance.
We do see the margins in Q4 not quite as perky.
They moderate somewhat.
And this is primarily due to the timing of the performance improvements that we had previously expected in the fourth quarter with -- shifted into the third essentially and that was specifically in the area of the domestic training programs.
Also we begin to ramp up and transition on a new commercial training program that I referred to at around $160 million or so in the third quarter.
Your next question is from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a brief sort of high-level question.
It's that time of the year that business planning process has come together and I know you're not giving 2014 guidance until next quarter.
But if you were to pick in sort of broad brush strokes about how you're looking at next year in whatever framework whether it's existing versus new business domestic versus international any color you could kind of provide us for how you're thinking about the world? I realized it's tough to have a crystal ball in this environment.
But any color you can provide us on how you're thinking about next year would be helpful.
Yes.
Let me fly around about 40 000 feet and Dave's giving me the sign to say I should be at 50 000 feet so I'll go to 50 000 feet.
We're not on virtual.
You can see him sitting next to me here.
But anyway it's really hard to look at it.
I mean I would tell you we're planning for sequestration to continue.
I mean that's the environment we're in.
I'd like to think that this budget process is not working.
I've grown up in an industry where we have appropriations bill.
There was a sequence to what we're doing.
You could see it you could plan on it.
Today we operate under CRs.
We have another one that goes to January 15.
We have a House and Senate committee they're reviewing -- hopefully they'll take a stab at revenue and entitlement and if successful could lead to maybe a postponement of the gap and sequestration until people figure it out.
But with all of that going on and the turmoil and planning for the BCA to continue I would tell you that '14 feels a lot like '13.
I don't know how else to describe it.
Revenue should be down just slightly driven by domestic.
I think the margins should continue to be strong.
And the company is expected to have strong cash generation.
That's about 50 000 feet and I could put some -- a lot of qualifiers on that that you all know but that's kind of how it feels now and we'll see what comes out of Congress.
And hopefully we can get ourselves back to some stability and really focusing on doing even more for our customers and our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Bill when do you think we actually get a '15 budget request? Is that going to be delayed in your view? It's really hard to say I would tell you.
From what I understand our customers are planning 2 budgets.
Which one gets submitted I can't tell you.
That's a product of somebody else making that decision.
I just know that American industry really likes to have some finality in what we do.
And if you give us a number we know how to put our strategies and plans in place to make that happen.
So I'd say right now it's a jump all and we've got 2 budgets going on until we figure out what's going on.
And we're all trying to make sure that this committee really does the hard job of getting to a decision here.
Your next question is from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the buyback? Just if I look at your updated guidance you're now towards the higher end of the share count and I would have expected to see you have to increase the pace to get the shares down for the year.
So how are you just thinking about buyback and why you might be doing a little bit less this year than you thought last quarter? Okay.
So I appreciate the question.
We were in line from a dollar standpoint in Q3 with Q2 and also Q1.
We made a conscious decision to maintain that level of repurchases as the prior 2 quarters.
With that said we continue to see the repurchase plan consistent with what I said on the last earnings call.
So more specifically we expect our share repurchases in the back half of this year in dollar terms to be modestly higher than the first half.
So let me be clear the fourth quarter at this stage the planning assumption is that we would be in dollar terms well in excess of where we were in Q3.
So I hope that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> That does help.
And Bill if I can ask you a question just looking at the Turkey decision and price sounds like that was a big issue can you just talk about whether price is becoming a bigger driver in some of these international discussions? I think clearly Turkey as a country made a decision and they decided to do it based on price.
In my experience in price when you buy that way you don't get all the capabilities you want and so they're going to have to deal with that.
The second part of it is you have to integrate it into NATO which is going to be difficult at best and will not happen as quick as people want it to happen.
From our standpoint they've started the negotiation process.
We'll see what happens.
But if Turkey runs into problems we remain positioned and stand ready to help them with Patriot.
To get to your overall question clearly I'm an engineer by training and a technologist I'd like to think of myself that way.
And people when they look at U.S.
systems they are still state-of-the-art.
What people don't realize is that life cycle costs really run into these decisions.
And if you don't take that into account you're going to be really sorry with some stuff you bought.
And we know of systems around the world produced by other countries that aren't working and can't be [ph] manned.
And you have to almost learn that lesson the hard way.
So we'll see what happens here.
Your next question will come from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to follow on that because we've seen a few things going on in the Middle East.
There's been the Turkey decision.
We've seen -- since Mandar [ph] made some rather provocative statements about looking outside of the U.S.
relationship to acquire defense systems.
U.A.E.
is looking at Eurofighter.
Are you seeing any shifts in the Middle East in terms of how people are thinking of the relationship with the U.S.? I think certainly we provide the highest quality systems but it does seem as though there's at least a lot of rhetoric today about looking elsewhere.
It's a great question Doug and something I always think about but I have a term we use here that -- it's the area under the curve.
So if you draw it over time that curve and the area under it Raytheon has a long-standing strong enduring relationships not just in the Mid East but around the world.
And due to our international experience we continue to operate in the regions or especially the Mid East since you brought that up over many decades and there's ebbs and flows in that relationship among governments.
But I have always felt when I've looked at it our customers stay with us because they recognize that we consistently deliver value and equipment to them to be able to handle the threat environment that they're in.
So you could take any slice of that curve over time and probably find something that isn't going well.
But the area under the curve is one that really matters.
And we still get a phone call now and then or at least I do that says "Would you go do something?" And we'll go off and start based on a handshake.
And I think that's what it's all about.
But clearly there's geopolitical things happening today that are getting everybody's attention and we've got to work our way through that and I'm hopeful that will happen.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well -- and then separately walking around AUSA this week it felt somewhat like a wake frankly.
I mean the Army budget is under a great deal of pressure.
And when you think about Raytheon's exposure to the Army how do you see your major programs in terms of the level of risk under potentially a bearish scenario as opposed to an opportunity under a more bullish scenario should we happen to see that? I think right now you probably said it right.
The Army is under the most pressure.
They have the largest headcount of any of the services and the hard choices are strategically how do you handle the future do you do it with a smaller service? Do you do it that's more mobile more light and how do you think through that? And when you come from very high numbers to a smaller number it really makes it hard for them to do that plus planning do they have sequester don't they have sequester? That's really tough on them.
We're really trying to work with them in any way we can.
But Dave and I would both tell you that from our standpoint planning for sequester we know exactly in our minds what the Army will be doing and that's in our forecast as we look at things.
And we're not centric around any one service.
And from that standpoint we could weather the storm and why our portfolio is probably in better shape than others.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But do you see -- when you look at your Army exposure today and you look out the next couple of years is this something where you would see an area of continuing downward pressure? In other words perhaps one of the weaker areas across the portfolio of the company? No no I don't because we're not in the platform business or vehicle business or the areas where the armies happen to make those tough calls.
So if you look at air and missile defense clearly they've done the Patriot upgrades just this month.
We announced another Patriot order from the Army.
They're going to protect our core systems.
They're going to fund them.
They're going to make their upgrades and we'll do it that way.
I mean -- and then eventually what has to happen which is our strength is you've got to refresh.
And I've always said this is a speed bump.
You slow down going into it you go over the top come down and then you speed up as quick as you can.
And from our standpoint we're making sure our technology and our capabilities are lined up for the Army of the future not the Army of the past.
Your next question will come from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Dave I want to push back a little bit on your comment that the book-to-bill would be close to 1.
I mean what it implies is that fourth quarter orders got to be up nearly 50% from the third quarter.
For perspective Q4 '12 bookings were 8% above Q3 and Q4 '11 was only 3% above Q3.
So what makes this year so much different that you'd be up 50% relative to Q3 versus the prior 2 years? So George you're free to push back.
Okay that's part one.
[indiscernible] know about this.
George I wouldn't expect anything less.
So firstly let me...
Glad you're laughing George.
Yes.
Let me start by stating the obvious that the bookings are always lumpy.
They have been in the past.
They will be going forward.
From a cadence standpoint for this year the bookings profile hasn't changed meaningfully from what we were seeing back in April.
So I think that's an important data point.
There has been some shifts.
And for example Bill mentioned some of our opportunities in the Middle East.
The Kuwait Patriot opportunity which we now see being awarded in Q4 did shift from what we had earlier anticipated.
And with that said I'm not going to repeat all the details that Bill just went through I believe with a question earlier from Joe Nadol.
But frankly if we weren't confident with our fourth quarter bookings outlook we wouldn't suggest that as the estimates.
I also said during my formal remarks earlier George that we are now biased toward the lower end of the range that we've been suggesting for a while now.
And that's principally due to a couple of things shifting out as well as the government shutdowns.
So we see some of the process on a few smaller FMS potentials potentially moving into early next year.
But just -- Dave I would think and I don't remember exactly that each of the last couple of years there were always moving shifts.
You're suggesting the shifts are greater this year than what we've seen in the past? Well yes they have been.
We are now in sequestration.
So there has been some movement to the right maybe more so than prior years.
You'll also recall that last year's third quarter was nothing short of a banner quarter for the company.
We were awarded some very large programs particularly in our missiles business.
So the comp to last year is also quite difficult.
George Bill went through a number of opportunities earlier somewhere in the neighborhood of I don't know $8 billion to $10 billion of opportunity.
We have thousands of programs.
He just went through the more significant ones from a dollar standpoint.
Again we're quite confident in where we sit today and as we look into '14.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill on the Next Generation Jammer and the AMDR do you have any clarity on when these things might come off protest or when the protest might be resolved? Yes there's a pretty standard -- let me say if you go by the standard dates that's usually about 100 days which Next Generation Jammer would be at the end of this month and AMDR would be in January.
And so it's probably the best way for me to peg it for you.
And they're pretty good at holding their timelines unless an issue pops up that needs to be clarified.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do all these -- do these constant protests have an impact on the customer relationship? Yes they do.
I mean you've got to be very careful when you protest that if you impugn your customer during the protest by inferring they don't know what they're doing that's probably not something that I'd recommend in the process.
If it's done on purely business reasons or on the process and you don't impugn somebody you're probably okay.
But somehow sometimes protests get personal or emotional and we're trying to stay away from that if that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dave just a quick one for you.
On the pension I was wondering if you could give us an update on what your returns are year-to-date and also what you're using as your interest rate calculation at this point? Sure.
As of yesterday because I was thinking ahead and I was quite sure that I get this question the returns are in excess of 11% from the pension plan assets.
So the team is doing a good job there.
From an interest rate standpoint today we're at -- from a discount rate standpoint today we're at 4.15%.
The -- as we go forward that is reset on the last day of the year through a process we use with our outside actuaries essentially modeling a hypothetical bond portfolio.
Given everything that we're seeing if we were to set it today it would be roughly 50 basis points to 75 basis points higher.
But again I can't suggest that's where it's going to be on 12/31.
We just have to wait and close out the year.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Spingarn from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill I wanted to go out a little longer term on international missile defense and get a sense of your visibility into your future opportunities once we get through these 3 Mid East contracts that you mentioned earlier.
Yes I think if you look at missile defense it's one of the key areas going forward.
The other part of missile defense is it never stands still from my standpoint have been doing this a long time.
When you realize you need missile defense you put it in then you go through the training to get your troops up to speed.
But the threat keeps evolving and changing.
And with that most of our systems are open architecture or they're designed in a way that their software upgradable.
But also the interceptors have to change and their ability to be able to discriminate against targets that might have different spoofing mechanisms to try and overcome the systems that exist.
So it's a process that keeps on going.
And if you look at it we've gone through iterations of Patriot to make it the most advanced in the world and of course Standard Missile-3 is doing that our TPY-2 radars are doing that.
So you have a nice customer base but also other countries realize that they have to be able to prepare themselves for future missile defense.
So to me it's a nice market.
It's a nice community of customers that realize that they've got to do this and may make the long term commitments to keep it ongoing if that helps.
Research Division</strong> Would you say that there's a natural growth rate in the business that you use as a rule of thumb or a sustainment level for the upgrade that we could think about? Yes you probably could.
It's -- we -- our term here that we use is P3I pre-planned product improvements.
And it's one of the things that our engineers and program leaders really always work on is that "Okay we're here today.
Where do we have to be tomorrow and where do we have to be beyond that?" And then our engineering leaders look at our gaps to figure out what we have to do.
I mean it's why we made a decision 10 years ago on GaN to be able to get higher efficiency to have our systems consume less power be able to manage the bandwidth and be able to discriminate in a way that no one else can do and work constantly pushing the envelope today and tomorrow and well into the future.
So we look at it as a way and it's an avenue that provides us some market entry point for our new technology once we've got the reliability and everything worked out.
And by the way these new technologies help reduce the cost or provide better affordability.
But in my world what I really enjoy is the systems are more reliable.
They take less maintenance less life cycle cost fewer spares and so customers really want to upgrade.
It's much like if you think about the server marketplace that people are constantly upgrading servers and they do that in a way they give more capable more memory at a less price.
They consume less energy.
So you want to upgrade because you can reduce your overall cost going forward while handling an advanced threat into the future if that helps.
Research Division</strong> It does.
And I just have a quick one for Dave.
Dave you've mentioned earlier when you started your prepared remarks that you generally across the board outperformed your guidance water [ph].
But were there any specific areas of weakness that were maybe unexpected embedded in there? And are these -- could you speak to any? And is there something that could carry into the fourth quarter? Candidly there's nothing that comes to mind that was a surprise from a downside or challenge standpoint.
The businesses across the board performed well.
Missiles was down a little bit.
That was primarily driven by the runout of an international production program.
The follow-on contract to that is ramping up in Q4.
Cash across the board was strong.
Bookings were inside of our expectations on Q3.
So frankly I didn't see any surprises to give any pause as we move ahead in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Would that also apply to SAS just where the sales growth was I guess the most negative? And I guess there's a lot of classified in there but anything there? No.
You'll recall back in April when we sized up the impact of sequestration on some of the quick-turn business some of our services and classified business for this year we had anticipated essentially what played out at SAS.
Your next question will come from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So there's really 2 things.
One on strategic for a moment.
I mean you've been very deliberate in using R&amp;D to go after market share that way.
But are you -- is there anything that's changed in this environment? You talk about small contractors possibly struggling a bit.
Did they need your help financially as well as operationally? Yes Howard.
It's -- as a company you've heard me talk about the supply base and especially minority or small-owned businesses they are the heartbeat of this country.
And for some of them they're really key to what we do.
So we work with them and try and help them in any way.
We send Six Sigma teams in to some of our suppliers to help them be more competitive that's good for us and it's good for them.
We've sent people in to help on technical issues.
And financially if they're in trouble we'll sit down and work with them to figure out what we can do to be able to get through this.
I mean the shutdown was really hard.
I mean we spent time every day trying to figure out how to make sure that people were getting paid.
How did we move work around? I mean one of the beauties in our company is with our common systems and processes.
We were able to do things and it identifies areas for us real quick.
But it is an area that as a person that's been in this industry my whole career I worry what we're doing to that into the business as a country.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just to talk about the fourth quarter for a moment.
It's very unusual for IDS to be down versus the third quarter both in terms of profitability -- or profits and profitability and volumes.
And I'm sure some of it is attributable to push out of international business.
But could you talk a little bit more Dave about some of the comparisons there and why that's evolved that way? Sure.
Let me talk about sales first and I'll follow-up with a margin profile.
So sales for IDS was up 3.3% year-to-date but it didn't moderate as you noted in Q3 and it's down in Q4 primarily driven by shifts to the right with some of our domestic awards including Space Fence which is now anticipated early in 2014 as well as a naval radar program awarded in the last week of Q3.
And I noted earlier with one of your colleagues that the Kuwait Patriot program is now expected in the fourth quarter.
So from a margin standpoint that business IDS continued strong performance in the third quarter again driven by favorable international air and missile defense contract mix as well as some performance improvements that we had previously or earlier expected in the fourth quarter.
You'll note here that we did raise the full year margin guidance by about 20 basis points.
Now looking more specifically at the fourth quarter margins are impacted by the timing of EAC adjustments as well as mix.
Specifically recall in the last call Howard in the last earnings call we noted that the cadence of the performance improvements in this business was weighted to the first half of the year.
So we also saw a continued strength from that in the third quarter.
Now that coupled with a change in contract mix does impact and lower the margins that we now expect in the fourth quarter.
And just lastly and as you're aware we typically see lower margins at the inception of some programs which can and do in a lot of cases improve over time as we retire risk and implement operating efficiencies.
Research Division</strong> Yes I get that.
I mean it's a fairly -- I mean theirs [ph] either was fairly substantial improvement for the -- this is a more normal level until you see some of this other business come home.
No I would say that -- don't assume that the fourth quarter becomes the run rate for next year.
I think you probably should look at it -- the trailing 12-month average and expect the ramp-up on the bookings in the fourth quarter to take place.
I would say essentially in Q2 3 and 4 of next year.
That question will come from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Bill a quick question for you and then one for David as well.
Bill you mentioned that there's some change in the regulatory environment that moves things from State over to Commerce.
Is this the case that it's opening up new markets for you? And if so what's the -- what are the size of those markets? Or does this just give you better competitive standing out there in the marketplace? And then Dave I think Bill mentioned the cash flow would be "robust" next year.
If you could offer up some building blocks for us to get a sense of relative to this year what are going to be the positives what are going to be negatives as we look at cash flow next year? Sure.
I'll -- yes let me take the cash flow question.
So as we have done in the past we continue to be very effective with respect to our overall cash cycle from a business standpoint.
It's not just the finance group it's the overall company.
We've continued to see a healthy cash conversion from an earnings perspective and from a process perspective.
We are in the process of setting up milestones and performance payments to the -- with respect to the awards that we see in Q4 and in the first half of next year that should be healthy.
We're looking at a continued improvement from an overall collections standpoint.
I would say those are really the drivers as we move into next year.
Internationally more -- and more specifically we do see the potential and the likelihood of some advances with respect to our international business.
It's traditionally the way international business is affected.
So I think taken together Bill and I or -- and Tom Kennedy are in full agreement that we're continuing to see healthy cash flow as we move in to '14.
And thanks Dave.
I'll finish up here with the -- with your question on international.
On some items when they move from State to -- over to Commerce there are items that allow the process to move a lot quicker.
We sell in 82 countries around the world.
We've sold over -- to over 115 I think roughly over time but we have 82 active.
I don't really see it opening up to more countries.
I just see it being more fit -- more efficient for us.
We can be better at it.
But I think what's more important that I mentioned in the last part of that is that we see our DOD consumer leaning forward for us.
If you look at Dep Sec Def Dr.
Carter was over in India speaking to them about what we can to be -- open it up make it easier for both countries to do business.
That's one example.
The other one is on the 15th of this month 2 CMs went over on JSOW notified the Congress.
I didn't mention those in my remarks because that'll be early '14 items.
That will be about $1 billion to $2 billion worth of that particular product line and that's one where our customers are helping us.
Because if you think about it by having those in our factories those help reduce the overheads keep the lines hot and actually make the product more affordable for our domestic customers.
So if there's one thing I'm really encouraged about and I feel good about is how we both are looking at why international is good for us domestically as well as internationally.
So I'm encouraged by the process.
I'm -- with everything being thrown at us it's -- I put that on the real positive side.
All right.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter conference call in January.
Frances? Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes our presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Enjoy your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon fourth quarter earnings conference call.
My name is Quentin and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I turn the call over to Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Quentin.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our fourth quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Bill Swanson our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Kennedy our Chief Operating Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Bill and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon continued to perform well in the fourth quarter as we did all year.
I'm particularly pleased with our performance given we operated under a government shutdown in October sequestration and continuing resolutions at the start and end of the year.
In the quarter we delivered strong margins earnings and cash flow driven by solid execution.
Bookings were good in the fourth quarter at $7.5 billion which resulted in a book-to-bill of 1.28.
For the year our margins EPS and cash flow were all up while sales were down slightly.
Said another way we had good performance in a challenging environment.
Looking forward we're expecting solid performance in 2014 and Dave will walk you through our guidance in a moment.
As expected our international business continues to be a significant driver of our results.
In the quarter international sales were 29% of the total sales and 43% of total bookings.
Notably we booked several key international awards in the quarter: A ground-based air defense system for Oman for $1.28 billion; $500 million for tactical radar systems for international customers; and $100 million for international classified cyber.
For the full year international sales represented 27% of total sales and grew by 3%.
Our international bookings increased by 10% a result of our strategic focus on global markets.
In November I visited several of our customers in the Mideast and we continue to make considerable progress on some of the larger opportunities in the region.
For example Kuwait signed an LOA for Patriot in December.
The U.S.
Army now has it and we expect to have a completed agreement by the end of February.
We also made significant progress on Qatar Patriot which is the first step in a multi-year multi-billion dollar opportunity for the company.
Qatar has the LOA and we're expecting their leadership to sign an agreement for Patriot portion any day now.
Then it will go to the Army for final approval and we expect an award exceeding $2 billion in the first half of the year.
We feel good about the bookings outlook in 2014 and expect total bookings of $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
International bookings are expected to be in the 35% to 40% of total bookings.
We expect international sales to be around 30% of total sales.
Domestically we continue to see strong interest in our portfolio of advanced technologies and we received several notable awards in the quarter including TPY-2 radar 12 and 2 competitive wins the Global ASNT communications system and the Air and Missile Defense Radar or AMDR for short.
We weren't immune to the effects of the Budget Control Act in 2013 but the good news is that in December a budget deal was reached which provides a stable budget for 2 years giving the DoD and industry some much-needed clarity.
Hopefully there'll be no more continuing resolutions and shutdowns.
After the close of the quarter we received some more good news: Protests on 2 of our competitive wins the Next Generation Jammer and AMDR were favorably resolved.
And as I noted on previous calls these are important development programs that will provide long-term growth opportunities for the company and also reflect our strong position in future markets both domestically and internationally.
Looking back at 2013 I'm really proud of what the Raytheon team was able to accomplish.
We continue to meet our customers' needs in a challenging environment.
We successfully consolidated Raytheon's businesses from 6 to 4 and in record time and we continued to reduce our costs.
I'm also proud that Raytheon was the only AMD company recognized in the Civic 50 for the second consecutive year as one of America's most community-minded companies.
The Civic 50 identifies and recognizes companies for their commitment to improve the quality of life in the communities where they do business.
So in summary as I look across the company our performance continues to be solid our strategy continues to create value our culture is stronger than ever and the company is well-positioned and prepared for the future.
I also want to take the time to thank the Raytheon team for its focus and dedication throughout the year.
I would also like to thank our supply chain partners for their support.
As you all know I announced my intention to step down as Raytheon's CEO and the board appointed Tom Kennedy to be CEO and Tom is on the call with us today.
We started the transition and we're both excited for the company's future.
Most of you know Tom and the excellent job he's done as COO leading our business consolidation that enhances productivity agility and affordability.
His experience as a proven leader with a broad understanding of key technologies a key -- keen customer focus and a deep knowledge of our business makes him the ideal CEO to take the company forward.
I look forward to continuing to serve as Chairman of the Board and working with Tom to ensure a smooth transition.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the fourth quarter and full year results then I'll discuss our outlook for 2014 and after that we'll open up the call to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning which are posted on our website.
If everyone could please move to Page 3.
We delivered solid results in both the quarter and the full year.
Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $1.58.
For the full year adjusted EPS of $6.38 was up 1.6%.
Our sales for the quarter were $5.9 billion and $23.7 billion for the year consistent with the guidance range we presented in October.
We also generated strong operating cash flow of $1.1 billion for the quarter and $2.4 billion for the year.
Our focus on cash cycle productivity continues to drive results.
I'd like to point out that we made a discretionary contribution of $300 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Even with this pension contribution we still achieved the high end of our prior cash flow guidance.
Additionally during the quarter the company repurchased 4.7 million shares of common stock for $400 million bringing the full year 2013 repurchases to 15.2 million shares for about $1.1 billion.
The company ended the year with a strong balance sheet and net debt of $437 million.
As we previously disclosed in the fourth quarter 2013 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2 billion of the company's outstanding common stock.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me go through some of the details of our fourth quarter and full year results.
We had solid bookings of $7.5 billion in the quarter and $22.1 billion for the full year resulting in a year-end backlog of $33.7 billion.
Our book-to-bill in the quarter was 1.28 and the company ended 2013 with a funded backlog of about $23 billion.
For the quarter international orders represented 43% of our total company bookings and for the full year was 30% of total bookings.
At the end of 2013 approximately 37% of our total backlog was international.
In the fourth quarter significant international awards included $1.3 billion at IDS on a ground-based air defense system and $566 million at SAS on tactical airborne system upgrades for international customers.
Other significant bookings included $393 million at IDS for AMDR; $173 million for a TPY-2 radar for the Missile Defense Agency; and $585 million at IIS on a number of classified programs including $100 million for international cyber.
Missile Systems booked $189 million for the evolved Sea Sparrow missile and $177 million for the Phalanx Weapon Systems for the U.S.
Navy and international customers.
Missiles also booked $172 million for Paveway for the U.S.
Air Force and international customers.
If you'd move to Page 5 we had fourth quarter sales of $5.9 billion down 9%.
As I mentioned earlier sales were consistent with our expectations.
It's worth noting that fourth quarter sales reflect the impact from the timing of international awards some of which were received late in the quarter.
Looking at the businesses.
Net sales at IDS were $1.6 billion in the quarter.
Compared to last year's fourth quarter the change was primarily due to an international Patriot program nearing completion and lower volume on a tactical radar program.
IIS net sales of $1.5 billion in the quarter were down from the same period last year primarily due to lower volume on training and some of our classified programs.
Missile Systems had fourth quarter 2013 net sales of $1.6 billion down compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
The change was primarily due to lower sales on U.S.
Army sensor programs.
And SAS had net sales of $1.6 billion in Q4 lower than the comparable period last year primarily due to reduced volume on some of our ISR and classified programs.
For the year sales were $23.7 billion down 2.9%.
A decline in domestic sales was primarily -- was partially offset by a little more than 3% growth in our international sales.
Moving ahead to Page 6.
We delivered solid operational performance in the quarter and for the full year.
Looking at business margins in the quarter all were essentially in line or better than last year as the IDS IIS and SAS margins all exceeded the range that we have provided back in October.
Missile Systems fourth quarter margin did come in below our expectations driven by mix a small loss on the disposal of a non-core manufacturing facility as well as an investment in the development of a new wafer-level packaging technology.
Overall our adjusted margins were up 30 basis points in the quarter.
As I stand back and look at full year 2013 we again delivered strong margins.
Our adjusted margin increased 10 basis points driven by solid execution favorable mix and meaningful contribution from our ongoing productivity efforts including the business consolidation and the successful implementation of Global Business Services.
On Page 7 you'll see both the fourth quarter and full year adjusted EPS.
In the fourth quarter 2013 our adjusted EPS was $1.58 and for the full year was $6.38 compared with $6.28 in 2012 an increase of 1.6%.
The increase for the full year was driven by capital deployment actions specifically share repurchases and by strong execution partially offset by lower volume.
As I previously mentioned the company generated strong operating cash flow of $2.4 billion in 2013.
So moving ahead to our 2014 guidance which you'll find on Page 8.
We see sales in the range of between $22.5 billion and $23 billion down 3% to 5% from 2013 driven by our domestic business which is partially offset by the growth in our international business.
As for pension we see the FAS/CAS adjustment at a positive $346 million which reflects our investment returns in 2013 of over 15% on our U.S.
pension assets and the December 31 discount rate of 5.1%.
We expect net interest expense to be between $200 million and $210 million.
We see our average diluted shares outstanding to be between 312 million and 314 million on a full year basis a 3% year-over-year reduction at the midpoint of the range.
As for our effective tax rate we expect it to be approximately 28.5%.
Our 2014 effective tax rate guidance is lower than 2013 due to an international cash management initiative which was executed in January bringing cash back to the United States.
This action impacted the full year tax rate by just under 3 percentage points and is worth approximately $0.26 per share.
I should also point out that we haven't included the possible extension of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2014 guidance.
If the legislation passes it would favorably impact the effective tax rate by about 100 basis points and our EPS by about $0.10.
In 2014 we see our adjusted EPS to be in the range of $5.76 to $5.91.
In addition to the FAS/CAS adjustment this also excludes the $0.26 impact that I just mentioned.
We see 2014 EPS to be in the range of $6.74 to $6.89.
Our operating cash flow guidance is between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion.
Moving ahead to Page 9.
Here we provided our initial 2014 guidance by business.
We expect 2014 adjusted margins to continue to be solid and in the 12.6% to 12.8% range.
This includes 20 basis points of expected cost to support productivity and efficiency initiatives including real estate utilization improvements through facility consolidations as well as investments to support the continuing evolution of our advanced technologies to maintain our competitive edge which has been a focus area in the past and will continue to be so in the future.
Further our margins for 2014 will be impacted by a change in program mix both from an international and domestic perspective.
We're continuing to focus on reducing our cost structure.
In 2013 we consolidated several facilities reducing our square footage by about 3% or approximately 1 million square feet.
Looking forward we're targeting a square footage reduction of approximately 10% over the next 3 to 4 years which should yield considerable efficiencies and further support our customers' affordability objectives.
If you'd now turn to Page 10 we provided you with our 2014 outlook by quarter.
You'll notice that sales ramp up throughout the year.
In the first half of 2014 sales are expected to be down in the mid- to high-single digits on a tough comp.
You may recall that in the first half of last year we received some quick-turned book-and-bill business.
The back half sales for 2014 are expected to be in line to slightly up when you're comparing to the same period in 2013.
And if you compare second half sales to first half sales we expect to see mid-single-digit growth.
The improvement in the back half was driven by the timing of international awards which we received in late 2013 and expect in the first half of 2014.
It's worth noting that the sales cadence in 2014 is consistent with what the company saw in 2011 and 2012.
Finally on Page 11.
As we've done in the past we've provided a summary of the financial impact from pensions in 2013 as well as the projected impact for 2014 through '16 holding all assumptions constant.
Let me conclude by saying that in 2013 Raytheon delivered solid operating performance.
By focusing on program execution and structural cost improvements our margins earnings and operating cash flow were all ahead of expectations.
Our international business continues to grow.
We have a strong balance sheet and net debt of less than $450 million.
This gives us real flexibility and options to continue to drive shareholder value.
We continue to find new ways to apply our world-class technologies to deliver meaningful and differentiated value to our customers improve efficiency and drive productivity.
Before concluding I'd like to offer my personal thanks to Bill.
Your leadership has transformed this company and you are handing off a strong well-managed organization.
I know I speak for the rest of the employees by saying thank you for your leadership vision and all the contributions you've made over your 42 years of service to help make this company a success for our customers our employees and our shareholders.
I look forward to continuing to work with you in your role as Chairman.
I would also like to personally congratulate Tom.
I've had the pleasure of working closely with Tom over the past 8 years and especially since he became COO this past spring.
With his 30 years of experience Tom knows this company from top to bottom and has demonstrated strong leadership throughout his career.
So Tom I and the rest of the team are looking forward to working with you and building on our strong foundation under your leadership.
So with that we'll open the call up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill we're not going to ask about succession today.
Well you can go ahead now.
I can probably give you a definitive answer now.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sure.
Well congratulations.
Can I just ask a question? If I just take some of the numbers you gave us for the domestic and international it would seem to imply that domestic is probably down 8% this year and international gets 6% growth.
And given that first half second half dynamic you just talked about should that growth continue into next year? I mean is the midpoint of this year where you feel like we start to hit bottom in a cycle? So Sam why don't I start with that and maybe Bill or Tom want to add a little bit of color.
So we expect domestic on a full year basis to be down in the mid-single-digit range.
And we see our international business again for the year growing in the low- to mid-single-digit range.
And to use a phrase that Bill has used in the past '14 does look a lot like '13 from a sales profile standpoint.
Yes.
And I would add that I think we've always said that we look at '14 in part of '15 being a transition year.
And if you look at '16 and look at the numbers there's actually -- it ticks up even under sequestration.
So for us this feels like what we've been talking about and the international awards that I highlighted and some of the ones we're expecting to come in really are a nice transition for us as we go through this change in budget if that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Dave if I can just follow up is there a cash effect from this tax benefit in the first quarter? Because just looking at the quarterly run rate it did look like it was heavy in the EPS which I guess is the tax benefit.
But is there a cash effect as well? Yes there is.
It's about $75 million or $80 million.
The next question comes from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Bill you've come a long way from -- since the NCS problem programs.
It's a much more pleasant call these days.
That was about 10 years ago and I remember it vividly.
Research Division</strong> Yes me too.
Can you highlight how much of that second half growth is dependent on signing the international contracts in this first half of the year? Obviously they have a tendency of slipping a little bit so I just want to make sure we're not counting on too much.
Yes.
So we feel confident in how we have guided for the year both first half and second half.
You'll recall that a number of these larger programs we started talking about mid last year.
Bill just put a lot color around where the more significant ones stand.
So from our perspective I would say that it wouldn't be a stretch to say that we're highly confident with our second half performance relative to what I just said in my formal remarks.
Yes.
And I would just add a little color.
The Oman program has started from the point of having a contract.
Kuwait I mentioned it's all -- everything's done in country.
It's back on this side of the pond now for us to take care of.
And when you look at Qatar clearly that's been through all the processes and just waiting for the final signature over there.
So I think Dave said it well.
We're confident what the front-end looks like.
And once a few more stages are taking place we might even spend some of our own money to get an early jump on this to make sure we get it nailed correctly.
Yes.
You should also keep in mind that we factor these pretty heavily when we talk about the bookings outlook for the year and that's certainly taken into account here.
So if you look at what had actually taken place in the fourth quarter with a book-to-bill of just under 1.3 we also see strength in the first half of the year.
I'll repeat what I just said on a full year basis we have a lot of confidence in the guidance and certainly in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just one cleanup one was on SAS anything in particular in terms of timing in the quarter? And was it just a push out into '14 in terms of the sales for the fourth quarter? Okay.
From a sales standpoint for SAS we do see 2014 declining in the mid-single digits which is driven by lower funding levels on some of the various classified programs as well as some of the airborne radar and EW systems.
You also know that -- and we talked about this in the past it was scheduled completion on some of the international tactical airborne radars.
Now with all of that said we do see a ramp in the second half of SAS similar to what I just said about the company as a whole.
And we continue to have a lot of confidence in that business.
It's probably worth mentioning as well the margin performance in Q4 for SAS was very strong.
They were able to pull some productivity initiatives forward into the fourth quarter that we had initially anticipated in the first half of 2014.
And I would add just a little bit Dave they can now start on Next Generation Jammer.
We were delayed for about 6 months there because of the protests and RACR will be starting up so that will give them a nice ramp-up here.
The next question comes from Ron Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So congratulations Bill and everybody.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> So at a high level I mean I guess there was a lot of concern with maybe some of the changing political perceptions in the Middle East that you guys in particular would see some pressure on international sales in the region.
So I guess my question is if we back up have you seen a changing dynamic in the competitive landscape in international markets maybe particularly in the Middle East but just more broadly speaking? As kind of everybody has been trying to dive into international markets and it's been a focus for -- your competitors are putting together international units and that sort of thing so.
Yes.
I mean what I would do is remind everybody back to about 8 or 9 years ago when I guess we were talking about international.
It's not something you can flip a switch and turn on a light and have it instantaneously happen.
So I appreciate people starting organizations and putting things in place but it takes a while to establish your credibility internationally.
And our customers really count on the fact that I mean we've been in the Mideast 50 years Japan 50 years Taiwan 50 years Korea.
I mean these are the sort of things we've done for a long time and your performance over that period really helps you capture new business.
And it's to me it's all about relationships and trust and that does not happen overnight.
To your question in the Mideast clearly the region needs the kind of products and services that we as a company have in our portfolio and I was over there in December and Tom was over there just recently.
I think both of us would say the same thing that there hasn't been any kind of turndown whatsoever in what we're doing in the region.
In fact we find the opposite is true that they're counting on us to do more to help them as they worry about their own national security.
So I know what's written in the papers but to me first-hand knowledge is really important and that's why we go over there to interface with people that we've been doing work with for a long long time.
Research Division</strong> All right that's good to know.
If that helps.
Research Division</strong> Yes for sure.
And just a follow-on.
When we think about where maybe some of the next emerging opportunities are for Raytheon internationally where would that be? Well for us the Mideast is still strong.
I mean we have 2 new customers in Oman and Qatar that haven't been in our portfolio before.
Those programs took a few years to get over the goal line and we intend to do more with them and we can offer more to help provide for the security of their countries.
So the Mideast is strong.
Asia is still strong whether it's South Korea Taiwan or Japan or that part of the region.
Clearly Australia and Europe in my opinion not now but in the future 2 3 years from now Europe is going to have to upgrade what they have.
They haven't spent money.
They've kind of made things do and in my opinion they're going to have to upgrade what they have and we'll see that as an opportunity because we've been there for a number of years.
As a company we sell in 80 countries around the world.
And one of the things I'm proud of when I travel and I know Tom feels the same way is that we never have to talk about our performance it's a given.
So we start really with more what capabilities can we help you with as we go in there.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bill it's been wonderful working with you and wish you all the best.
Thank you Joe.
Research Division</strong> Well onto the business.
I thought I heard you guys imply earlier that you're looking at 2014 and 2015 both as transition years or -- I interpreted that as down years for domestic with then potentially growth reemerging in '16.
Is that a fair characterization of the way you're looking at this? Yes Joe I would say it is.
When you look at the budget process even with sequestration and the Budget Control Act '16 was always the year that there was an uptick where it started to come back again.
And even when you look at it '17 and on the budgets start to increase.
The other thing is as the economy gets going that'll take part of the pressure off too.
But we've always viewed that as the transition.
You got it right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the international front.
I heard what you said so far and we can do the math on the 2 deals that you're waiting for here near term.
But when you look at the $8.8 billion that you're expecting this year in bookings roughly internationally what are the other key deals that we can kind of hone in on as we look in -- particularly into the second half of the year? Yes we feel good about it with that.
Let me turn it over to Tom.
He just came back from a trip so he can add some color.
Yes I just made – just back from the Middle East I did have the opportunity to do the ceremony signing for the Oman deal.
And as Bill mentioned before Oman is a new country for us and we see additional opportunities in Oman over the next 5 years.
Also the big one Bill mentioned was Qatar.
It turns out there will also be a second award towards the end of the year from Qatar.
This is for air defense operating center.
We also -- Bill did mention the Patriot Kuwait fire units.
That is very close to being awarded by the U.S.
Army.
We're expecting that towards the end of February beginning of March.
There's other Patriot activities between $1 billion to $2 billion coming up more towards the back end of the year.
We also have a big opportunity relative to TOW international and this is for the next -- this year.
It's about between $600 million and $700 million.
And overall there's another overall missile it's about $1.2 billion throughout the year.
And then the other major activities is coming out of SAS is tactical airborne radars and electronic warfare approximately $600 million.
And then we have as you know a significant training in O&amp;M activities internationally and that's about $700 million.
And then there's a miscellaneous of about another $1.5 billion and that's across our special mission aircraft battlefield radars air-traffic control ground sensor systems and also airborne ISR that kind of wraps it up.
It comes from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill maybe for the last time I was wondering if you could give us maybe your thoughts on maybe the general defense industry.
Now that we have some stability in the U.S.
defense budget for the next couple of years do you think we'll see some pickup in M&amp;A and would you Raytheon be interested in getting involved? I think right now the mid and lower tiers are facing some pressure.
I think some companies are having to decide what they're going to do if they can continue on the path they're on which if they decide to do something different will it involve M&amp;A and I think some are going to have to do it.
I think from our standpoint Dave said it best I mean we've got a balance sheet that's -- I like to say as pristine with a lot of firepower.
So if there's opportunities for us to add to our portfolio that make sense not just to buy something for revenue's sake that never works but where it fits in especially in where we see future growth then that would be the case.
But I don't expect the company to be doing anything totally different from what we've done in the past.
One of the things we tried to be -- somebody mentioned back to the 10 programs 10 or 11 years ago we tried to be transparent in what we do and I don't expect that to change at all.
Since you asked me to reflect one thing that I would say that I am concerned about as we go through this budget process we seem to be protecting personnel and readiness which is okay.
Those can be bought back very quickly and I'm going to be working hard to make sure that on the R&amp;D side that we don't take a lot of cuts in the budget there because being an engineer I know how long it takes for R&amp;D to come to fruition.
And we're always a country that has invested in our capability in war-fighting capability.
I know Raytheon even in the tough times when we had $13 billion in debt we still invested and that's paying off in some of our wins as we look today and we'll continue to invest as a company.
But I think as a nation as we look at the -- our investments we've got to make sure that R&amp;D is not sacrificed because you can't buy back that time that you lose.
LLC Research Division</strong> And maybe just a quick one for Dave of course on pension and...
Of course Rob.
I was waiting yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe it's quite a simple question but you showed the gross funding requirement for the next 3 years.
Wouldn't it make more sense to use some of this cash on the balance sheet available today to kind of bring those future contributions down? I'm sorry Rob I couldn't -- you were breaking up a little bit.
Can you just repeat the question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes sorry.
It was -- I asked if it would make more financial sense to use some of the cash on the balance sheet today rather than these gross funding requirements in the future.
To use some of the cash on the balance sheet today -- yes yes.
We made a discretionary – a small discretionary contribution in the fourth quarter.
There's a number of considerations with the cash that we currently have on the balance sheet.
And as we go forward in '14 I've already suggested that we'll once again have a very strong cash flow performance here of upwards of $2.5 billion.
It's something we continue to consider.
Historically the discretionary contributions have been very good investments for the company at any way that you would want to analyze those investments.
So it's certainly something we'd look at going forward.
I want to be clear none of that is contemplated as we sit here today.
But if we do decide to go in that direction we will certainly make that public in advance of what we're going to execute.
There's different areas that we're thinking about investing in.
Bill suggested that we are going to continue to look hard at M&amp;A opportunities that are value-add to the company both in the near and long term.
We'll continue to look at the dividend and we've said this publicly before.
We believe that increasing the dividend over time is a very important economic signal to the investors relative to how we see our cash flow performance.
The repurchase plan back in the fourth quarter our Board of Directors approved a $2 billion authorization which is not time-sensitive.
In other words we can use that over any period of time we would like.
And I just suggested that the diluted share count for 2014 will be down about 3% so we continue to see that as a value-creation opportunity for investors.
So we're cognizant of our cash position.
We feel good about the flexibility and we have a lot of confidence that we'll be able to effectively drive value for our shareholders over time.
The next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I was thinking since you're a short-timer maybe all my questions should go to Tom and Dave anyhow.
Take your best shot Howard.
Research Division</strong> There's no water in this one Bill.
First something that goes back a little while and I think you've talked about resolving it was the British border authority.
Where do you stand with that? And how close do you think you are to getting what you need back? On e-Borders we expect a decision in the first half of 2014.
All the hearings were concluded late last year and that's about the best color I can give right now Howard because I don't know any more than that.
Research Division</strong> All right that's fine.
You spent a lot of time and effort on Patriot upgrades and some other things you've been doing.
Tom maybe for a moment you could talk a little bit more of how you've enhanced the system and sort of what does that leave in terms of -- I mean at some point it has to go back in and help the Army in a meaningful way I would think.
So I think the big upgrade on Patriot came out of the U.A.E.
program and was about over $400 million in nonrecurring and nonrecurring is the dollars we use for development.
Those changes are now in the Patriot system.
They've been through complete testing with the U.S.
Army.
And so right now in all our new offerings in the Middle East we are providing this upgraded Patriot system and it's getting a lot of traction.
The other area here is there's 12 nations that have Patriot today.
And so all those nations are now looking at upgrading their systems with all the capabilities that were added via the U.A.E.
contract that we had.
Research Division</strong> And then last Dave if you I look at the math on the share repurchase it appears as if you're going to scale it back a little bit relative to last year.
Is that a pretty fair assumption? That's a fair assumption Howard and I believe I mentioned that on either the second quarter or third quarter call last year.
So it is scaled back somewhat but it's still an important part of the overall capital deployment plan.
Research Division</strong> So it does sort of indicate that you're looking at finding other ways to -- or just more balance I guess might be a way of thinking about it going forward for growth.
That's a fair comment.
We are balancing out the way we're looking at the various levers from a capital deployment standpoint.
And we still believe that roughly a 3% reduction is -- will be viewed favorably.
We still see Raytheon as a good investment or we wouldn't be repurchasing our shares.
But again there are a number of different areas to consider as we go forward in '14.
The next question comes from the line of George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Congratulations again Bill.
A job well done over the years.
It's always been fun.
Thank you George.
I'd like to say I'm really going to miss this.
You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to be listening in on the calls so it probably will be a lot more fun.
Okay my question is that Dave given that you've missed the book-to-bill for the year I mean it came in at 0.93 versus the nearer 1 you were expecting.
Was that the reason why the sales guidance for this year is down 3% to 5% versus what you said on the third quarter call that it would be relatively similar? Okay.
So you are right as bookings have moved to the right that clearly impacts sales in the near term.
I want to repeat something that I said earlier.
2014 is very similar to the way 2013 looked from a sales standpoint both domestically and internationally.
Now we did have some larger programs move into the first half of 2014.
We continue to see a very healthy book-to-bill in -- particularly in the first half of 2014.
So if you take that 3-quarter period the fourth quarter of '13 and the first half of '14 that bodes very well for the sales outlook for the back half of '14.
From an overall standpoint it impacted the sales guidance somewhat but it's not overly meaningful is the best way for me to say it.
And I think I should have mentioned that when I gave the $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million guidance on bookings we expect a book-to-bill between 1.0 and 1.05.
So we're expecting a strong year.
Okay.
But I mean when you said similar sales in the third quarter comment I'm just trying to figure out exactly how much the lower bookings might have impacted the sales guidance for this year.
I mean was it 1% 2%? Yes it's not a lot George.
I'm not going to get overly specific on the arithmetic but it didn't -- I would say the bookends of what we just went out with it hasn't changed as a result of some of these orders moving to the right.
It's less than a 1% impact.
Okay.
And then just...
That's why we go out with a range George.
That's why we have a range.
Okay.
And then just one quick one.
You did well on the margins but the space area you particularly beat your guidance as set out in the third quarter.
So was there something unique in this fourth quarter for space that you didn't anticipate? Or what caused you to beat it by that much? Yes.
No that's...
I mean you're 70 basis points higher than what your highest guidance was at the third quarter.
Yes.
So the SAS business did see strong fourth quarter margins and they were slightly above the prior year's fourth quarter.
It's primarily due to the productivity improvements in our airborne radar program area.
We had a couple of things going on and we were able to pull and I mentioned this earlier pull some productivity actions that we had anticipated in the first half of '14 into the fourth quarter.
Okay very good.
Congratulations again Bill.
Thanks George.
I will miss you.
The next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi.
It's Jon Raviv on for Jason.
Congratulations to Bill and Tom.
Just kind of curious what you're looking out for in the FY '15 budget process from a domestic perspective where you see risks and opportunities around hitting the top end or bottom end of your guidance for this year? DoD is going to submit the budget in the March timeframe.
It'll be the first budget that's submitted within the caps.
So for us it'll allow DoD to make the tradeoffs that they see fit under these -- the new budget process.
Beyond that it's really hard to speculate what we think they may be doing in that regard.
But clearly for us the areas that we're focused in in missile defense and in cyber and so forth fit with what we believe the priorities will be in that case as we go forward.
And then just in terms of thinking about the high and low end of guidance for this year? Yes.
So from a guidance standpoint we range virtually all of our financial performance measures.
I think a good way to think about it would be starting at the midpoint.
We have opportunities and we also have some risks.
But on balance I would suggest the midpoint of the range is the way to start thinking about it.
The next question apologies for pronunciation comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill again congratulations on job extremely well done.
Thank you Cai appreciate it.
LLC Research Division</strong> So well done that my only real question is one for Dave.
So you laid out this very attractive profile through 2016 of cash recovery and your discretion -- and your contributions at least the gross funding contributions.
And if you don't make any discretionary contributions it looks like every year you get another couple hundred million of cash flow benefit.
That's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> As you look at that what could make the cash -- or how locked in is the cash recovery? And I assume the gross funding essentially -- what could change the gross funding other than your discretionary contributions? Well there's a lot of variables involved in this from a discount rate standpoint from an asset return standpoint from a demographic standpoint.
All of these have various impacts on the accounting obviously on the recovery and on the contributions under the Pension Protection Act.
With all of that said I wouldn't -- I would look at what we have in the web slide deck as -- with pretty high confidence.
I don't see that changing dramatically going forward.
It holds all assumptions constant relative to the discount rate and the asset returns at 8.75%.
The demographics can sometimes change these numbers somewhat but not meaningfully.
So I would say that I would look at those numbers from an investor perspective and have a fair amount of confidence in what we put out there.
[Operator Instructions] Right Quentin I think that's it.
So thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter conference call in April.
And Todd thank you and I want to thank everybody.
It's been a nice ride.
Thanks everybody.
Quentin? Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today's call and I conclude.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Taheesha and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Taheesha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
During the first quarter of 2014 Raytheon delivered solid operating results.
Our margins cash flow and EPS were all ahead of expectations and our bookings and sales were in line with our plan.
I'm proud of the team as they continue to deliver strong program performance in a challenging environment.
As our results show we continue to build upon a strong foundation that creates value for customers and shareholders.
Further we are continuously positioning the company for future growth and value creation.
Our goal is to ensure the ongoing strong alignment of Raytheon's broad portfolio of capabilities with the needs of our global customers.
To do this we continue to prioritize our investments with a focus on enhancing our competitive advantage and leveraging our capabilities to grow globally in new markets as we've done recently in Oman and we are going to do in Qatar.
Furthermore we continue to strengthen our "one company" collaboration to improve our performance in execution and growth.
And we're attacking costs by leveraging commercial best practices to drive value and affordability.
As many of you already know Raytheon's international reach is a key element of our solid foundation and an important differentiator for the company.
It's an area that holds great potential for our future.
In the first quarter international bookings were 39% of total bookings and international now comprises 39% of our total backlog.
I'd like to point out 2 key international bookings that we received in the quarter.
We booked $515 million for an award to provide Kuwait 2 Patriot fire units.
This adds to Kuwait's existing inventory of 5 fire units and reflects continued demand for our combat-proven integrated air and missile defense systems in the global marketplace.
We also booked $195 million for an international cyber program.
This booking demonstrates the significant value of our cyber capabilities and solutions to a broader spectrum of markets and customers.
It also demonstrates our ability to leverage our international market channels to expand our cyber business.
We continue to make progress on new opportunities in Qatar which initially includes Patriot systems and Command and Control capabilities.
Qatar publicly announced their intentions to proceed with the Patriot procurement at the DIMDEX show and the LOA is awaiting final approval.
Additionally we continue to pursue a number of other international Patriot opportunities that include Poland South Korea and others.
Closer to home we had a very key international win on the North Warning System for Canada.
This program supports the operation and maintenance of 47 radar sites across the Arctic that supply tracking data to NORAD.
We won the competition late in the first quarter and the booking will be reflected in the second quarter.
This is a great example of the diversity of both our portfolio and the international markets that Raytheon serves.
And after the close of the quarter an international customer executed a contract with the U.S.
government for TOW missiles.
We expect this to result in a booking of just over $650 million in Q2.
Domestically we're encouraged by the President's fiscal year '15 budget request and we welcome the budget stability afforded by the Bipartisan Budget Act.
Alongside the budget released in March the DoD also published the 2014 Quadrennial Defense Review.
A consistent theme throughout all of these and other recent DoD strategic documents is key support for capabilities that play to Raytheon's strengths including missile defense cyber EW and ISR.
Of note one of the areas in the fiscal year '15 budget that received the strongest support was cyber where the budget request increased 9%.
In my more than 30 years with the company and in all my roles our top priority has always been continuous improvement.
It's part of the culture of Raytheon at all levels and is a key driver behind our operating performance.
We will continue to build on our success by pressing forward with our many efficiency initiatives including optimizing our supply chain through strategic sourcing reducing our fixed cost base through footprint consolidation and providing innovative and more efficient shared services and solutions to Raytheon's businesses and functions through our Global Business Services group.
Our overall goal is to provide our customers with not just the most innovative solutions but also to do so at a lower cost.
As we look to the future accelerating growth is a key priority for the company.
To achieve this we are focused on investing in the right technology through increased research and development investments which support our drive for competitive advantage.
As we've highlighted on prior calls our R&amp;D investments have yielded significant takeaway wins and we are well-positioned for the next generation of sensors effectors and cyber capabilities.
Similarly we continue to look for value-added investments outside the company.
Over the past several years we have made a number of acquisitions primarily in the cyber area which has significantly enhanced our position in this growth market.
Looking ahead one of the key objectives is to continue to unlock the value of our cyber capabilities to meet the growing global demand in both defense and commercial markets.
We continue to see acquisitions as a key part of our long-term strategy.
In addition to this growth focus our capital deployment strategy includes returning value to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases.
Consistent with this approach we repurchased $200 million of stock in the quarter and we announced last month that we'll increase our dividend by 10%.
We have now raised our annual dividend every year for the past 10 years.
We have also invested in making our processes and systems world-class to support our strong execution-focused culture.
And we've invested in our people our most valuable asset.
These execution excellence and people investments provide us with a competitive advantage.
It's what makes us unique.
It allows us to retain and attract our world-class talent and provide an environment where our people can achieve their maximum potential for our global customers.
I feel privileged to lead this great company.
I want to thank the team for a good start out of the gate in 2014 and for support as we build our strong foundation and embrace the opportunities before us.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay thanks Tom.
And good morning everyone.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the first quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
Okay if everyone would turn to Page 3.
We're pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the first quarter with sales EPS margins and operating cash flow all at or better than expectations.
It's a good start to the year and positions us well for achieving our full year outlook.
Our EPS from continuing operations was $1.87.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $1.43.
I'll discuss this in more detail in just a moment.
Operating margin was strong at 14.3% and on an adjusted basis was 12.7%.
And sales of $5.5 billion were at the high end of our sales guidance range.
Operating cash flow of $659 million was better than our prior guidance driven by the timing of collections that were previously expected in the second quarter.
During the quarter the company bought back 2.1 million shares of common stock under the share repurchase program for $200 million.
I also want to point out that we're reaffirming the guidance that we provided in January which I'll discuss further in just a few minutes.
Turning now to Page 4 let me start by providing some detail on our first quarter results.
Company bookings for the quarter were $4.3 billion slightly ahead of our internal plans.
International awards represented 39% of the total.
As you may recall we had strong bookings in the back half of 2013 so on a trailing 4-quarter basis the book-to-bill is 0.98x.
And as we mentioned on the January call we expect our full year 2014 bookings to be $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million and a book-to-bill ratio of between 1.0 and 1.05x.
Notable bookings in the quarter included $515 million at IDS to provide Patriot air and missile defense capability for Kuwait and $98 million to provide Patriot engineering services for the U.S.
and international customers.
IIS booked $111 million on the Joint Polar Satellite System program for NASA and $104 million on the Warfighter FOCUS in support of both domestic and foreign training programs.
Missile Systems booked $479 million for Standard Missile-3 for the Missile Defense Agency.
Missile Systems also booked $164 million for Paveway and $86 million for Maverick missiles both for international customers.
Space and Airborne Systems booked $116 million to provide radar spares for an international customer and $81 million for software enhancements to AESA radars for the U.S.
Air Force.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $535 million and $216 million respectively on a number of classified contracts including $195 million for international cyber at IIS.
We continue to expand our cyber business to provide products and large-scale solutions for both domestic and international customers.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter was $32.2 billion and on a funded basis was $22.7 billion.
It's worth noting that approximately 39% of our backlog is now comprised of international programs.
If you'd move to Page 5 as I just mentioned for the first quarter of 2014 sales were at the high end of the guidance we set in January.
Looking at sales by business IDS had first quarter 2014 net sales of $1.5 billion.
The change from Q1 2013 was primarily due to the planned completion of certain production phases on 2 international Patriot programs.
In the first quarter of 2014 IIS had net sales of $1.5 billion.
Compared with the same quarter last year the change was primarily due to lower volume on our training programs.
Missile systems had first quarter 2014 net sales of $1.6 billion.
We saw lower sales for U.S.
Army programs in this year's first quarter compared to Q1 2013.
And SAS had net sales of $1.4 billion.
Lower volume on tactical communications and classified programs drove the change versus last year.
In addition it's worth noting that $68 million of the lower volume is from reduced intersegment sales related to close combat tactical radars.
Excluding this SAS would be down approximately 8%.
Moving ahead to Page 6 we're pleased by our overall company margins which exceeded our guidance.
Our operating margin was 14.3%.
And on an adjusted basis was 12.7%.
As a reminder our first quarter 2014 adjusted margin excludes the favorable FAS/CAS Adjustment which was worth 160 basis points or $0.18 per share.
Our focus on execution productivity and efficiency continues to be reflected in our financial results.
We remain committed to driving cost out of the business.
A good example of this is our improving facilities utilization that we've discussed on past calls.
We're reducing our real estate footprint and have been for a couple of years now.
We made good progress in 2013 realizing a 3% reduction in square footage over 2012.
And we see a couple of percent more reduction in 2014.
I'd like to mention 1 example of an action we just initiated that will begin to drive savings in 2015.
We now plan to move 1 700 people from our Garland Texas location to a more efficient facility in nearby Richardson Texas.
This will result in a net reduction of over 600 000 square feet beginning next year.
We've picked [ph] similar projects that will enable us to hit an approximate 10% targeted reduction in our company-wide real estate over the next few years.
So looking at business margins.
IIS and Missiles margins were up in the quarter compared with the same period last year.
Solid overall program performance and favorable mix drove improvement at both businesses.
The change in IDS was primarily driven by higher net program efficiencies in last year's first quarter.
I do want to point out that in this year's first quarter there was a program where the assumed cost to complete increased over prior estimates and this was one of the drivers in the quarterly comparison.
And SAS margins of 13.6% were down compared to the same period last year primarily driven by higher license royalty payments received in the first quarter of 2013.
Turning now to Page 7.
First quarter 2014 EPS was $1.87 and on an adjusted basis was $1.43.
I've already addressed the changes in operations and share count.
Now you may recall that in Q1 2013 we included the benefit of the retroactive impact of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit.
We excluded this credit in our adjusted earnings.
Looking at the first quarter 2014 as I discussed on January's call our lower tax rate is driven in part by the repatriation of cash.
This action was completed in January and resulted in a favorable impact of $0.25 per share in the first quarter 2014.
It's worth noting that this impacts the full year tax rate by just under 3 percentage points.
On Page 8 we are reaffirming the financial outlook for 2014 that we provided in January for net sales EPS and operating cash flow.
We still expect our full year 2014 net sales to be in the range of between $22.5 billion and $23 billion.
Our full year 2014 EPS is expected to be in a range of between $6.74 and $6.89 and on an adjusted basis was in the range of between $5.76 and $5.91.
As a reminder we have not included the possible extension of the R&amp;D tax credit in our 2014 guidance.
If the legislation passes it would favorably impact the effective tax rate by about 100 basis points and our EPS by about $0.10.
We repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for $200 million in the quarter and continue to see our diluted share count in the range of between 312 million and 314 million shares for 2014 which would be a 3% reduction at the midpoint.
As I mentioned earlier operating cash flow in the quarter was strong due to the timing of collections previously expected in the second quarter.
We continue to see our 2014 guidance for operating cash flow to be between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion.
Looking beyond 2014 we don't foresee any notable FAS/CAS impact to what we discussed on the January call based on the new mortality assumptions recently published in draft form by the Society of Actuaries.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've included guidance by business which is unchanged from our prior outlook.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales EPS and operating cash flow for the balance of 2014.
As we discussed on the January call sales were expected to ramp up throughout the year.
In the first half of 2014 we still expect sales to be down on a percentage basis in the mid- to high-single digits.
Keep in mind sales in the first half of the year -- the first half of last year predominantly Q2 were relatively strong due in part to some quick-turn book-and-bill business.
The back-half sales for this year 2014 are expected to be in line to slightly up versus 2013.
And if you compare second-half sales to first-half sales we expect to see mid-single-digit growth sequentially.
As you may recall our 2013 bookings finished strong particularly with respect to international.
We booked Oman GBAD and the South Korean RACR program in the fourth quarter.
In Q1 we were awarded 2 Patriot units for Kuwait and we also booked a key international cyber program.
Looking at the second quarter we anticipate strong orders internationally for missiles and integrated air missile defense programs.
These awards are all key drivers of our second-half sales performance.
Before concluding I'd like to spend just a minute talking about our capital deployment strategy.
Raytheon has had strong cash generation over the past several years and we expect this to continue.
Our first priority is to invest in ourselves to support future growth and efficiency initiatives.
Further an important part of our strategy is to return cash to shareholders.
In the first quarter we increased our dividend by 10% per share.
We plan to continue our share repurchase program reducing the diluted share base over time.
Additionally we continue to look for acquisitions that will drive growth in strategic areas and enhance shareholder value.
We'll continue to unlock the potential of our cyber capabilities to meet the growing global demand in both defense and commercial markets and we see additional acquisitions as part of this long-term focus.
Importantly our cash balances and cash flow allow us flexibility and provide sufficient capacity both in the near and long term to support a balanced capital deployment strategy going forward.
In summary we saw good performance in the first quarter.
We're executing well.
We continue to drive solid operating performance and we're taking costs out of the business.
We have a healthy international pipeline and we expect to improve our sales trajectory in the back half of this year.
We remain well positioned with our domestic customers' priority areas and continue to be aligned with the evolving priorities of our international customers.
Our objective is to drive the business to maximize value for all of our customers and shareholders.
So with that Tom and I will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is just on the IDS contract you guys mentioned.
Any more color you can give on the growth in -- or how much that cost you in EBIT in the quarter? How big is the contract? The confidence in your new cost assumptions et cetera? The IDS contract specifically which one are you referring to Joe? Research Division</strong> The one I think you mentioned that impacted your margin in the quarter.
Are you talking Patriot for Kuwait? Research Division</strong> No I'm sorry.
I thought you mentioned in your description of margins at IDS that there was a contract for which...
Joe I'll take that real quick.
That was a Patriot program we had and there was a refurbishment and some of the refurbishment elements were required and initially anticipated so we did book an upcharge on that.
That is a profitable program but it's requiring us to bring in some more additional material into it to complete the refurb.
I apologize Joe.
Yes there's a -- it's a contract that's been in production for a while.
There was a slight shift in the cadence of the material that's required.
So there's a slight impact in the quarter.
It shows up in the EAC adjustments but the contract remains very profitable.
Research Division</strong> Understood okay.
And then just secondly I was interested in more on the cyber booking internationally.
I don't know how much you can talk about it.
It -- just from a high level it always seemed to me that cyber is more difficult -- a more difficult line of business to transfer internationally more of it is service-oriented than a lot of things you do conceptually anyway.
And so what's really the opportunity to do more of the same more details you can give on it? Yes Joe.
I think it's been a focus of ours for several years to leverage our international channels to drive our cyber business globally.
And I think we were just -- we are seeing -- we saw it last -- late last year we saw it this year that we're being successful in doing that.
And I think the -- one of the main reasons is that we're very credible worldwide relative to our cyber capabilities and we have a strong international brand relative to the Raytheon company itself.
The combination of those 2 is that we're seeing significant opportunities across the globe for our -- essentially our cyber capabilities our knowledge of cyber and also our cyber products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just back on that first -- that contract we talked about first.
Are you guys going to quantify the specific EAC adjustment or are you not going to do that? Well the EAC adjustments overall for the quarter ran at about 2.2% of revenue.
The IDS -- the change for IDS was about $34 million $35 million.
And that one adjustment made up about half of it.
That's the reason we wanted to point it out.
Your next question will come from the line of Yair Reiner from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First a follow-up on Joe's question.
You mentioned in your discussion of cyber that you'd like to do more on the commercial side.
Can you give us a sense of how much of your cyber business today is commercial? And maybe where you'd like that to be in 4 or 5 years? Yes.
So it's an area that we have participated in for a while now.
From a financial perspective it's not significant at this point.
We do offer a broad range of products and services and solutions across various customers.
And I think equally important across various information assurance domains.
We've been talking about this and thinking about this from a strategic standpoint for quite a while.
We do see ourselves expanding in that area.
But at this stage I don't think it would be prudent to get specific as to how significant that could become over the next 3 to 5 years.
With that said it is a key focus area for us both from a government standpoint and from a commercial standpoint.
And we do consider it an important growth area.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one more if I could.
You've had 2 significant new program wins here relatively recently with the Next Generation Jammer and AMDR.
I'm hoping you can help us understand when those begin to hit the P&amp;L? And what the margin profile of those are going to look like? So let me take that Yair.
Obviously both of those wins were very important to the Raytheon Company.
They're both franchise wins and essentially based on the investments that we have made in research and development over several years.
And that essentially bore the fruits of that effort.
As we move forward right now we're in the development stages of the program.
And so we will not be seeing the high production-type of margins out for about 4 years.
But we do have healthy margins on both programs through the development phases.
Research Division</strong> And then the cadence of the revenues? Cadence of the revenues? It's a...
The cadence of the revenues they ramp up throughout this year and become more significant as we get into '15.
Your next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about just on -- on one of the slides on SAS you called out the $68 million impact from intercompany sales.
I don't remember you calling that out before.
So is there something different for specific programs or is it just larger this quarter for some reason? Well the -- it's army-related.
The end product is a battlefield radar that's sold out of our IDS division.
The reason I pointed that out is because it's a significant intersegment change year-over-year of $65 million $70 million.
The other businesses have intersegment sales that are in line with last year.
So just on a purely external basis SAS was down a little over 8% and I just thought it was important to point it out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just when -- you mentioned the capital deployment question and I guess I'm just thinking more broadly which is you have done a lot of work throughout the 2000 I guess to go from call it a BBB to an A rating.
And just thinking about your credit profile.
How important is that and in the context of what you would do with your capital structure and your cash? So we are pleased with what we've been able to do from a balance sheet perspective driven by the strong cash flow over the last number of years.
We are essentially an A- rating across-the-board.
And we feel that between BBB+ an A- is about the range that we are targeting and comfortable to stay within.
From a capital deployment standpoint I suggested in my opening remarks that we would continue a balanced approach.
There is a likelihood that we will see more from an acquisition perspective going forward than we've done certainly in the last year or 2.
Last year was pretty quiet on the acquisition front and you can see that when you look at our balance sheet.
Going forward I wouldn't expect wholesale changes from the way we're thinking about capital deployment or the way we're thinking about the rating.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Might as well carry on from where Sam was talking about the balance sheet situation but maybe from a different angle.
I'm wondering if this shift towards 40% of sales being export also changes your thinking about where you expect the balance sheet to be or what sort of cash debt holding you should have going forward.
Yes.
So international as you know typically has a slightly improved cash profile when compared to our domestic business.
I think when you cut through the details that simply gives us more opportunity with respect to our capital deployment priorities as we look ahead to 2015 and '16.
I think that that's really the short version.
We're going to continue to invest in ourselves as a priority I think Tom mentioned that earlier both from a cost efficiency standpoint -- for example we have allocated about $100 million to facility utilization improvements this year.
We're continuing to invest and increase the investment in R&amp;D as we go forward.
And there is some capital associated with that.
I'll say this again because it's worth repeating we fully intend to continue to return value to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases.
And like I said we have an increasing focus on value-creating acquisitions.
I do want to point out one last thing.
The first quarter of this year we posted the highest cash flow performance operating cash flow performance in over a decade.
So I think your question is the right one and we'll continue to drive cash flow for the company in that regard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe a follow-up on your favorite topic of pension space.
I was wondering if you could very simplistically explain why these mortality table changes aren't going to much have an impact.
Okay.
So I think different companies use varying assumptions as they go forward and suggest outlooks and forecasts for pensions.
Our assumptions are such that the new mortality tables that are in draft form and recently published wouldn't suggest a big change for us from a FAS/CAS standpoint or -- and you didn't ask this or from a cash flow standpoint.
As a matter of fact if you look over the 3-year period 2014 '15 '16 it actually suggests a slight increase in the net funding cash flow performance for pensions.
Your next question will come from the line of Jason Gursky from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dave just a quick question for you.
Can you just update us on e-Borders in the case going on over there? And then Tom a bit broader question for you on the international side.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the competitive environment there both from a price perspective as well as a technology perspective particularly in missile defense looking at the Chinese products out there and the potential threat that MEADS might offer up as well.
And then just the pipeline itself how far out that pipeline reaches and whether we ought to be expecting continued solid demand in growth potentially coming out of international markets to the rest of the [indiscernible].
Yes so let me start by talking about the e-Borders situation.
The arbitration proceedings in the e-Borders matter as you know were initiated in 2010.
And hearings before the arbitration panel were concluded in 2013.
We expect the decision from the panel sometime in the first half of 2014.
That's our expectations but it's behind closed doors and we'll see when we get a decision.
That's all we have.
So Jason on the international side obviously right now there's a significant threat across multiple regions.
If you're fairly knowledgeable about the Middle East you understand the concerns about Iran by several countries in that region.
And for example that's why we're seeing that uptick in Qatar and several other countries relative to the integrated air missile defense.
Our brand in that region is very strong.
We've been in the region for 50 years.
We've delivered products supported product and have provided we call it solutions that were very well-matched to the customers' needs.
So bottom line is we have a great relationship with those Middle East countries in terms of future product upgrades and then also future product solutions in -- not just the integrated air missile defense but also C4I and several other technology areas in ISR.
One other question you brought up is how does -- I think you're alluding is how does Patriot compete with MEADS and then how does Patriot compete with the Chinese? A significant change to Patriot occurred we just completed it with the U.A.E.
which was about a $500 million nonrecurring upgrade to the complete Patriot system which has significantly improved not only its capabilities but also its availability reliability and maintainability.
So right now it's the only system out there that has those capabilities that has been fielded.
MEADS has not been fielded yet and has not been completely tested.
So it has work to go before it gets to the availability levels and support levels that Patriot is already achieving today.
Furthermore we continue to make investments in Patriot too for future upgrades.
And we look forward to them.
If you look at the budget and the outlay for the DoD there is money in there for some upgrades on Patriot.
They may be competitive as we move forward.
One of them is an AESA radar for Patriot which obviously is in our -- straight and down center of our capability area and we will definitely be -- are pursuing that upgrade.
So I think Patriot overall is very strong not only internationally but also domestically.
And it's being funded very strongly in both areas.
Research Division</strong> How far up does your pipeline stretch of potential deals? Are you looking at things that will get fulfilled out into the '18 and '19 period? We have a pretty healthy 5 year for integrated air missile defense.
For example in '14 we're awaiting the Qatar Patriot award and there's also Qatar Command and Control that's associated with that.
And then when go into '15 there's upgrades in Korea and there's also a Poland competition that we are presently in.
So there's an uptick there.
And then as you may know once -- there is already 12 countries that have Patriot and there are continuous upgrades that occur across all those 12 countries.
And with the Qatar addition that will make it 13 and then when we win Poland that will make it 14 countries.
So a strong base we're integrating our missile defense.
Then we also have a -- our NASAM system which we had a contract award last year with Oman.
So we have not just the Patriot system which is a higher end but we also have the next level right below that for cruise missile defense and the airborne -- air breathing type of threats.
So I think bottom line is the portfolio is strong our customer pull is very strong over the 5 years.
Or next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
The first Dave if you could just quantify domestic versus international growth for the quarter? And then secondly on this facility reduction square footage reduction and the cost actions there.
How much of that is sort of to Tom's comment continuous improvement versus kind of a new initiative? And what's sort of behind that? Is there any -- is it reactionary or proactive? Any color you can help us with on that? Is that a new effort? And if so why? Sure.
So on the -- on your first question on the -- in quarter 1 of this year domestic sales were down about 7%.
International was slightly off at about -- down at about 4% over last year.
We did mention that 2 long-duration production programs in our air missile defense area were scaling down.
And we expect a pretty meaningful ramp as we get to the back half for the year in that segment of the business.
With respect to the facilities utilization improvement program that we have we've been working on that for a while now.
Last year we took out about 3% of our overall square footage.
We're now down to about 28.5 million square feet globally.
I would say this is not at all reactionary it's something that we have started focusing on a few years ago.
We're continuing to focus on that area.
We have a 10% overall targeted reduction in square footage over the next few years.
This year we -- I mentioned earlier it's going to -- from the investment side cost about $100 million; $40 million or $50 million in capital and $40 million or $50 million from an expense standpoint.
So I repeat what I said back on the January call from a margin profile it impacts us in the near term but in the long term makes us much more competitive from a cost posture.
The next question will come from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
The question I have is I'm trying to understand defense investment outlays are going to go down double-digit second and third quarter.
If the Green Book's light even more although I think that's too optimistic.
This quarter your sales were down 6% investment outlays were down 5%.
Why do we see an increasing disconnect between what you're suggesting for sales in the second and the third quarter versus what defense investment outlays are going to be? Okay.
So we understand the question.
There's clearly a need to track these numbers at a macro level and they do provide some insight into the broad trends.
But keep in mind that our specific company performance is a function of our bookings and the related sales.
Domestically bookings and sales played out as we expected in Q1.
And we're confident in our full year domestic sales guidance.
Keep in mind that we're halfway through the government fiscal year and we have the majority of our FY '14 government contracts in backlog and the revenue profile of these contracts are relatively fixed.
Now we are and remain confident in our program-by-program approach to setting guidance.
And for that reason we don't believe a change in the forecast is warranted simply based on Green Book forecasts or projections.
Okay.
I guess I'm still looking for the companies that are going to be impacted by this.
But I guess I haven't found one yet.
But we'll see.
The other question...
And George just back on that real clear is that we're already halfway into fiscal year '14.
And I just wanted to reiterate what Dave said relative to the fact that we have -- yes the contracts are in place and the contracts do dictate the payment schedules.
So that pretty well dictates what we're going to have for the rest of the year.
[indiscernible] And we roll up -- when we roll up our estimates it's based on the actual contracts that we have and what -- any sales we'll achieve out of those for the rest of the year.
So it's pretty set.
No it's a good answer.
As I said I'm just looking for the disconnect I haven't found it yet.
All right.
All right.
The other question I had Dave is in the first quarter cash flow you had a $250 million advance which I assume was probably from Kuwait or maybe Oman.
How much of the free -- of the $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion cash that you have how much more advances do you expect to get and...
Yes.
So George I'm not going to get specific on the amount of advances because they are associated with a number of programs that are factored in the outlook.
There is a portion of advances in the guidance.
There is every year certainly since I've been here.
I think what you may be looking for is our confidence in the cash flow outlook.
And we're highly confident in the $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion.
On the contrary Dave I would think your guidance is low because last year you didn't have any real net advances.
You're getting more CAS reimbursement this year plus the advances.
Yes George.
I thought that might be where you were going with it.
But let me just repeat we're confident with our $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion.
Cash -- to forecast cash flow as you know is difficult.
There's always timing 1 quarter to the next with respect to both cash coming in and cash payments being made.
So for now I think the $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion is where we're comfortable guiding.
Your next question will come from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about -- back on IDS margins.
I know we're going through this transition here margins have dipped down.
But as we think about longer term for this business as the international profile continues to build tom what do you think of kind of a long-term sustainable margin is for IDS? IDS is our business unit that has the highest percentage of international.
It's over 50%.
And so we do believe -- and a lot of those -- there's a mix between FMS foreign military sales contracts and also direct commercial sales and a lot tend to be production oriented.
And as you probably know in our business the production programs they tend to have higher margins.
So a combination of all those I would say the IDS will continue to be a strong margin business in the out years.
So let me just add one thing to that.
We see margin improvement quarter-over-quarter sequentially as we move throughout 2014.
And I would suggest that if you're thinking in the 16% plus range longer term you would be in the neighborhood.
I'm not guiding to that.
I just want to be clear but given the mix of business that's where I would suggest is a good way to think about IDS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I wanted to ask about classified how it's doing.
I know you can't say much there.
But I just noticed in the -- in your 10-K that the classified bookings last year were down a fair amount.
If you could comment on that? And then last one just talk about Tomahawk and the budget.
It looked like it took a pretty big hit.
I'll take that.
Our classified bookings were 19% of our total Q1 bookings.
So volume was up about 51% from Q1 2013.
Classified sales were 15% of total Q1 sales and it was down about 6% from Q1 2013.
So for the total year we expect classified bookings to be about 12% to 14% of total and sales to be in the range of 13% to 15% of total.
Research Division</strong> And then on the...
And then on the Tomahawk the Tomahawk was funded for FY '14 and also in the FY '15 budget.
But the 5-year defense plan for FY '15 did show funding not occurring in '16 '17 and '18 for production however it does show an uptick in '19 for a recertification program.
And we are working with the -- our customer to ensure that our production line continues in '16 '17 and '18 to be able to support the certification and working to restore those production numbers.
Your next question will come from the line of Douglas Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious.
In 2013 you fell short of your goal of reaching the book-to-bill above 1.
And we understood that that was related to the timing of some orders that moved to the right.
Then you look at Q1 the backlog fell again.
Was this a surprise for you? What's the outlook for bookings over the course of this year? Yes.
So we talked a little bit about this earlier.
We see strong bookings in the second quarter of north of $7 billion.
We did meet our internal targets for Q1 at about $4.3 billion.
We -- on a full year basis we're seeing $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
The international piece of that will be between 35% and 40%.
So what I would say is from our perspective we vet our internal targets in the first quarter and we feel good about the way the year is going to play out.
I would suggest that there is a -- there's a -- when you close out the second quarter based on what I'm saying we would expect a change in the trajectory of the backlog.
And we should be back to where we were when we closed out the end of last year if not better.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Then when you talk about the 39% of the backlog now being international if you took a very simplistic view you might think that over the long term you would be moving towards something like 39% of sales being international.
But can you describe how you expect that to play out? Or are some of the international awards longer-term contracts that might not lead you to that kind of a percentage? There will be a higher proportion of international sales as we move forward into '15 and '16.
With that said you are right with your assumption that the international programs in general are longer in duration than the domestic programs.
They can be on average say 4 to 5 years where domestically you may be looking at 3 years plus or minus.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just slip one last thing on the international.
When you look at the tensions right now in Eastern Europe I'm just interested are you seeing anything specific either directly or indirectly through the budget that's affecting your business as you look as this in real time? The time sequence for the budgets hasn't caught up to the activities geopolitical activities we're seeing in Eastern Europe yet.
However we are seeing direct requests for I will call it solutions to help countries in the Eastern Bloc region.
And the big one out there right now is Poland.
And there is a Poland Patriot competition that is going on today.
And that I would see that as being pretty firm as we move forward due to the activities in the -- due to the Ukraine activities.
We have time for one more question.
Your last question will come from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I -- this is more of a I guess a bigger picture question.
I'm just curious about kind of the -- with the international cyber bookings I assume that this is a segment that's got a low percentage of international mix.
But is this an opportunity I think long-term to see margins maybe trend higher? Or is that not going to happen until we see kind of trading volume bottom out? I definitely think that increasing the international content for that business will drive its margins in the upward direction.
So you're right in your assumptions moving forward.
This has been an activity that we've been pushing heavily here for the last 2 years to essentially leverage our existing international market channels with our other solutions across the entire business.
The cyber is just one example.
We have other examples across the business where we're doing that.
But again kind of leverage the fact that on the international we -- our margin profiles are stronger.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- David any clarification on how much is international today versus where you think it can get to? No.
I don't think we're ready to get into the mix of international versus domestic on the cyber business.
And again it's a business of products and services and overall solutions.
We do see the proportion of international growing over time.
But today I just -- I don't think it's appropriate to get into that level of detail.
All right well before closing I'd like to turn it over to Tom for some closing remarks.
Yes before we close the call this being the week of the Boston Marathon I wanted to take a moment to recognize our employees who were impacted by last year's bombings.
And on behalf of the entire Raytheon team I want to thank all of those who made this year's marathon a safe and resounding success.
Thank you.
Okay thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again in our second quarter conference call in July.
Taheesha? Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Glenn.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of the call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Dave and then move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Earlier this morning we reported solid second quarter results with company sales margins EPS and cash flow higher than our expectations.
Bookings were strong driving a book-to-bill ratio of 1.19 in the quarter with exceptionally strong bookings in the domestic business.
Our bookings in the second quarter increased by approximately $1.4 billion over the second quarter 2013.
Looking to the balance of the year we have a significant pipeline of opportunities including several large international programs.
Over the past couple of months I've traveled to meet a number of our international customers including 2 trips to the Middle East as well as to the Farnborough Airshow last week.
Overall at the Farnborough this year the company hosted delegations from over 30 countries totaling 700 meetings with 1 200 customers and partners.
Based on these meetings I can say with confidence that our global customers continue to look to Raytheon to provide advanced solutions to meet their evolving requirements.
And demand remains strong especially in the areas of integrated air and missile defense C4ISR cyber critical infrastructure protection and training.
As always the timing of international awards can be difficult to predict but demand is clearly there.
In the second quarter international sales comprised 29% of Raytheon's total sales.
International bookings were 24% of total bookings and were up 21% year-over-year.
These bookings were primarily driven by the international TOW and the Canadian North Warning System opportunities we mentioned on the last call as well as other missile and training awards.
We continue to make progress on several international air and missile defense opportunities which we've discussed on prior calls.
After the close of the quarter Qatar signed a letter of agreement with the U.S.
government for the Patriot system and we expect a booking later this year.
Qatar was -- will become the 13th nation to have chosen the Patriot integrated air and missile defense system to defend their country.
In addition we expect Qatar to move forward on an air defense operating center for approximately $300 million which we anticipate will result in a booking at the end of the year.
During the quarter we made progress on another international Patriot opportunity.
This approximately $2 billion opportunity continues to move forward and is now at the final stages of the approval process.
We expect the booking in the second half of the year.
We have recently received good news about 2 other large potential international opportunities.
In late June Poland announced that Raytheon had been down selected for the next competitive phase of its medium-range missile defense system.
We are now the sole U.S.
competitor for the contract and believe we have a strong offering with world-class technology that provide significant value to Poland.
Patriot is fielded and is being continuously upgraded with leading-edge technologies which is a key competitive discriminator in this competition.
A final decision on the Poland award is expected in 2015.
And just after the close of the quarter we booked $160 million for upgraded Patriot missiles for South Korea.
This is the first step of a 2-step process.
The next step is a systems upgrade to Configuration-3 plus for South Korea's firing units for several hundred million dollars which also is planned for next year.
Overall our international business remains strong.
We are expanding into new markets and broadening our presence in existing markets.
As we do this we are continuously enhancing how we do business internationally so we can create and capitalize on even more opportunities.
One of my top priorities is to foster this focus on global growth.
To achieve this we are taking a different approach in certain countries.
We are increasing our direct engagement utilizing more local resources and expanding our global supply chain.
We believe this commitment will provide us with the ability to create more international opportunities and increase our competitive advantage.
Looking now at the domestic environment we saw strong bookings in the quarter which increased nearly 30% year-over-year and resulted in a domestic book-to-bill of 1.27.
This bookings achievement was driven by various sensor training missile and classified bookings.
I've had the opportunity to meet with numerous representatives from Congress and the Department of Defense over the past several months and the feedback regarding the important capabilities that Raytheon products bring to the Warfighter continues to be positive.
In the defense bills making their way to through Congress Raytheon programs are faring well despite continued budget pressure.
Congress is proposing increases for several programs including Tomahawk SM-3 and EKV and most other Raytheon programs are funded at or near the President's request.
Another issue of significant interest to Congress is homeland defense.
In June we achieved a successful test to the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle which incorporates the latest hardware and software upgrades.
This successful test keeps the United States on track to significantly increase its ground-based interceptor inventory.
And also in June Raytheon won a nearly $300 million production competition for the FAB-T program.
This program allows a short communication between military aircraft ground sites and the new higher data rate Advanced EHF satellites.
Our secure communications position with the U.S.
Air Force is enhanced by this win.
It also builds on our leading position in the protective SATCOM market where we provide a Navy Multiband Terminal for the U.S.
Navy and SMART-T for the Army.
The bulk of this award will be booked next year.
The FAB-T win underscores the value of our continued investment in advanced technology to strengthen our competitive advantage across multiple products.
During the quarter we also marked several milestones related to corporate responsibility which reflects our values and strong company culture.
We released our new Corporate Responsibility Report highlighting our efforts investments and accomplishments in the many areas that define corporate responsibility at Raytheon.
We were recognized by the EPA with our seventh consecutive ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award for continued leadership and protecting our environment through superior energy efficiency.
We were again ranked on Corporate Responsibility Magazine's 100 Best Corporate Citizens list illustrating our strong commitment to corporate citizenship.
In summary we had a solid overall performance in the quarter.
Bookings were strong and we have a number of large opportunities included in the Qatar Patriot in the remainder of the year.
I'd like to thank the Raytheon team for their continued dedication and focus on delivering value for our customers and shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the second quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that were issued earlier this morning.
So if everyone would please turn to Page 3.
We're pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the second quarter with sales EPS margins and operating cash flow all better than our expectations.
We had strong bookings in the second quarter at $6.8 billion and sales of $5.7 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.19.
Operating margin was solid at 13.3% and on an adjusted basis was 11.8%.
And our EPS from continuing operations was $1.59.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $1.41.
Operating cash flow of $153 million was better than our prior guidance driven by the timing of collections that were previously expected in the third quarter.
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.6 million shares of common stock for $250 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 4.6 million shares for $450 million.
We ended the second quarter with $560 million of net debt.
I'd like to point out that on May 12 Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Service upgraded our long-term senior unsecured credit rating from A- to A reflecting our strong financial position.
If you turn to Page 4 let me start by providing some detail on our second quarter results.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $6.8 billion an increase of about $1.4 billion compared to the second quarter 2013 and on a year-to-date basis were $11.1 billion an increase of approximately $2.1 billion over the same period last year.
It's worth noting that on a trailing 4-quarter basis our book-to-bill ratio was 1.06x.
For the quarter international was 24% of our total company bookings and on a year-to-date basis was 30%.
For the year we continue to expect international to be in the range of 35% to 40% of total bookings.
And as we mentioned on the April call our full year 2014 bookings are expected to be $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million for a book-to-bill ratio of between 1 and 1.05x.
And as Tom just mentioned we have several significant international opportunities that we expect to book in the back half of this year.
Now notable awards in the second quarter included $764 million of Missile Systems for TOW missiles for the U.S.
Army U.S.
Marines and international customers.
Missile Systems also booked $289 million for Standard Missile-6 $259 million for AIM-9X Sidewinders $179 million for AMRAAM $130 million for Phalanx Weapon System $81 million on MALD $79 million on Rolling Airframe Missiles and $75 million for SM-3.
Additionally MS booked $140 million on a classified program.
IIS booked $515 million on domestic training programs and $160 million on foreign training programs in support of Warfighter FOCUS activities.
IIS also booked $521 million for a U.S.
Air Force program and approximately $160 million to provide operations and maintenance services on an international radar system.
And Space and Airborne Systems booked $129 million to provide radar subsystems for the U.S.
Navy.
In addition IIS and SAS booked $379 million and $431 million respectively on a number of classified programs.
Backlog at the end of the second quarter was $33 billion and funded backlog was $23.6 billion up $1.4 billion compared to the same period last year.
It's worth noting that approximately 38% of our backlog is comprised of international programs.
If you now move to Page 5 for the second quarter 2014 sales exceeded the high end of the guidance we set in April primarily due to timing at both IIS and SAS.
For the second quarter our international sales were approximately 29% of total sales and all of our businesses were at or above our expectations.
IDS had second quarter 2014 net sales of $1.5 billion.
The change from Q2 2013 was primarily due to the completion of production phases on a couple of international Patriot programs and lower sales on a combat tactical radar program.
There was also an unfavorable $38 million impact from the Australian Air Warfare Destroyer program which I'll address in a little more detail in just a moment.
In the second quarter 2014 IIS had net sales of $1.5 billion.
Compared with the same quarter last year the change was primarily due to lower volume on our training and mission support programs partially offset by higher volume on domestic and international classified programs.
Missile Systems had second quarter 2014 net sales of $1.5 billion.
We saw lower sales for U.S.
Army programs in this year's second quarter compared with Q2 2013.
And SAS had net sales of $1.5 billion.
Lower volume on intersegment sales related to a combat tactical radar program for IDS and classified programs drove the change versus last year.
It's worth pointing out that excluding the reduced intersegment sales of approximately $50 million SAS would have been down about 4%.
Moving on to Page 6 our overall company margins were solid.
Our reported operating margin was 13.3% and on an adjusted basis was 11.8%.
On a year-to-date basis our operating margin was 13.8% and on an adjusted basis was 12.2%.
As a reminder our second quarter 2014 adjusted margin excludes the favorable FAS/CAS adjustment which was worth about 150 basis points or $0.18 per share.
So looking at the business margins at IIS missiles and SAS margins were relatively consistent with the same period last year.
And at IDS the change was primarily driven by a decrease in estimated incentive fees on the Australian Air Warfare Destroyer program.
This program is structured as an alliance made up of Raytheon an Australian government-owned naval shipbuilder and the Commonwealth of Australia.
It's a cost-type contract and our fee has a guaranteed amount but also a variable portion that's contingent upon the aggregate cost performance of the alliance.
Now although Raytheon's performance continues on plan from both a cost and schedule standpoint the shipbuilder is now estimating an increase in their cost to complete the program which drove the decrease in the estimated incentive fees.
Excluding this impact IDS' margins would have been 16.2% on the quarter.
So overall the company continues to perform well.
Turning now to Page 7.
Second quarter 2014 EPS was $1.59 and on an adjusted basis was $1.41.
EPS for the second quarter 2014 was better than expected primarily driven by the timing of sales and program performance improvements that were previously expected in the third quarter.
On Page 8 we are reaffirming the company's financial outlook for 2014 that we provided in April for net sales EPS and operating cash flow.
We continue to expect our full year 2014 net sales to be in the range of between $22.5 billion and $23 billion.
Our full year 2014 EPS is expected to be in the range of between $6.74 and $6.89 and on an adjusted basis within a range of between $5.76 and $5.91.
We have not included in our 2014 guidance either the potential extension of the R&amp;D tax credit or the potential enactment of pension stabilization as part of the extension of the Highway Trust Fund.
These would be essentially offsetting if both were enacted.
We repurchased 2.6 million shares of common stock for $250 million in the quarter and continue to see our diluted share count in the range of between 312 million and 314 million shares for 2014 which would be a 3% reduction at the midpoint.
As I mentioned earlier operating cash flow in the quarter was strong due to the timing of collections previously expected in the third quarter.
We continue to see our 2014 guidance for operating cash flow to be between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion.
And as you can see on Page 9 we've adjusted the margin guidance for 3 of our businesses.
We've lowered IDS' margins to reflect the adjustment for the Air Warfare Destroyer program and the timing of international awards which is offset by improvements at missiles and IIS.
For the company we continue to see adjusted operating margin to be in the range of between 12.6% and 12.8% for the full year.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales EPS and operating cash flow from continuing operations for the balance of 2014.
For the third quarter we now expect sales to be in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.6 billion.
Further we expect margins in the third quarter to be in line with year-to-date performance in the low 12% range on an adjusted basis.
This drives our third quarter EPS guidance of $1.53 to $1.60.
We continue to see a ramp in sales in the fourth quarter which is being driven by awards we were expecting both this quarter and next including Qatar Patriot and another significant international Patriot award.
This increased volume combined with favorable program mix drive EPS to a range of $1.75 to $1.83 in the fourth quarter of this year.
Now before we open it up for Q&amp;A let me summarize.
We had solid second quarter performance.
Our book-to-bill was 1.19 in the quarter and on a trailing 4-quarter basis was 1.06.
As we look to the balance of the year the pipeline of international and domestic opportunities is strong.
Our balance sheet position gives us continued flexibility to drive shareholder value in the future and we remain confident in our outlook for the year.
So with that Tom and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about margins.
Dave you just talked about this and you alluded to the orders in the quarter that are going to drive sales the international orders in the second half.
I wanted to ask about pricing on these orders and pricing in general because we have seen segment margins come down here now.
I think it's 3 quarters in a row sequentially.
And I'm wondering -- you talked about a couple of the puts and takes at IDS.
But I'm wondering if just in general are we seeing lower pricing come into the backlog? So it's a fair question but we have not seen any pressure on fees or margins from a backlog perspective.
We still have a healthy book of business with respect to our international profile.
We're continuing to perform well for our domestic and international customers.
I think it's probably fair to point out that the second half margin profile is higher than the first half margin profile on -- at the company level.
And we do see improvement in the overall margin guidance for both IIS and missiles.
And SAS continues to perform quite well frankly as does IDS.
If you were to exclude the AWD situation that I just explained margins in Q2 for IDS would've been about 16.2%.
Research Division</strong> So if pricing's locked in for the second half should we see -- is there any execution risk that might be higher than normal? I just want to get a sense that we don't see a repeat really of the first half.
Rob let me just jump in here.
Right now we do not see any issues relative to execution moving forward.
In fact we've a full-court press on getting more efficiencies out of the business where you have the second half of the year significant work in taking out square footage.
We're also working our strategic sourcing across the second half of the year as we've done in the first.
So we actually see actually I would say a stronger foundation relative to margins in the second half with the activities we've put in place.
So bottom line is we do not see that pressure that you're talking about.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly Tom your latest view on M&amp;A versus buybacks? Well first of all and we talked about this before it's -- first priority remains in growing the company organically.
And then we on the domestic side we're focused on the hot spots that includes missile defense C4ISR also heavy involvement in cyber.
And then we're addressing the international markets as we discussed in both my script and also in Dave's script.
So we're seeing a very large pipeline of organic growth opportunities both on the domestic side and on the international side.
At the same time we do always look continually for value-added investments outside the company.
We continue to look at them in the cyber area and several other areas in our business domain.
And as we go forward we are looking at it in a disciplined approach way.
And I can tell you that we as part of that evaluation we are looking at what adds value to the shareholders.
And if it is a good fit we will move forward.
And as time goes on we'll let you know as we progress.
So let me just add 1 or 2 things to what Tom just went over.
I mentioned earlier and I think everyone's well aware of our strong balance sheet position especially with respect to cash and liquidity and the strong cash flow performance we've had historically and the strong cash flow performance that we see going forward.
So we have as one of our priorities returning cash to shareholders but it's one of multiple priorities.
I think we're in such a strong position that one doesn't necessarily preclude the other.
We don't see fundamental changes in our capital deployment plans going forward.
We do see a continued focus on growing the company as Tom just mentioned but that will not preclude us from continuing to have what I would term a shareholder-friendly capital deployment plan.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave I wonder if you would just walk us through the various opportunities and risks to the guidance for the rest of the year.
Where might we see upside if things go well and where might we see some downside if things don't go well? Right.
So again it's a good question.
On balance we're very comfortable with the range of guidance that we put out there that incorporates what we would consider all the known risks and opportunities.
From an international perspective these are factored bookings.
So I would suggest that if these were to play out as we anticipate at a full value we would see some upside from a bookings perspective which could translate into some other positives from a sales and earnings standpoint.
The risk of -- we talked about the CR before.
We've built that into our guidance in the fourth quarter.
We would expect a short-term CR toward the end of this year.
But even if it were to continue into the first part of next year I wouldn't see that having a major impact on our results.
Those are the ones that are sort of top of mind.
Yes I'll jump in on one and this is -- there are some potential opportunities in the first quarter of 2015 that could pull into the year.
As always we're always working to pull those opportunities in as soon as possible so we can convert.
And I would say that the team is doing a good job on those.
And so we look at those as upside potential that we're trying to harvest.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave how much fee is still at risk on AWD I mean if it goes to 0? No Cai I'm glad you asked that.
So let me just talk about AWD very briefly okay? So we're a top-tier contractor in Australia to the Australian government.
The alliance-based contracting approach for this program was the Commonwealth's preferred method of contracting for the 3-ship AWD program the Air Warfare Destroyer program.
This award provided Raytheon with an opportunity to expand our naval combat system expertise and capabilities to a new customer.
So strategically it's positioned us well for future mission systems work on both surface and subsurface platforms with literarily multi-billions of dollars of opportunity over time.
Now first the customer recognizes Raytheon's good performance on our portion of the work.
The Australian government's committed to working collaboratively and constructively with Raytheon and other stakeholders to implement a reform strategy to stop the program's growing cost and schedule overruns again from the shipbuilder.
And while it's difficult to predict the exact timing of when this ultimately plays out we don't expect the process to conclude until sometime in 2015.
Now with all of that said inception to date we've recorded incentive fee of about $80 million.
We wrote off about $38 million in the second quarter.
So the exposure the upside the -- kind of the worst-case exposure at this stage would be about $40 million.
Cai let me jump in on that to kind of explain that contract versus one of our DoD contracts.
It's essentially it's a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract with an incentive fee on top.
So as Dave was saying our maximum exposure is just the incentive fee.
I don't know if that helps or not but that's...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes no no no.
That's very clear.
That was terrific.
Your bookings plan is unchanged and you said 35% to 40% international and you're clearly under-running that.
So even to get to the lower end it looks like you need like $5.2 billion close to what $5.8 billion something like that in international bookings in the second half.
How do you expect that to kind of phase between Q3 and Q4? Because you got a lot of Mid-East customers.
And usually with Ramadan they don't get around to doing things toward the end of the year.
So Cai the quarterly cadence as you know is very difficult to predict.
We are very confident with our back-half outlook relative to international bookings.
We can't get specific as to exactly where we are in the various stages of completion.
Qatar for example that was -- recently the LOA was executed could be the end of Q3 maybe early Q4.
I don't want to get into much more detail on the other large Patriot program that we've been talking about because it's the customer's request that we don't get into much detail at this point.
There's other opportunities as well out of our missiles business and out of our SAS business.
But in total we're looking at about 40% to 50% of our bookings in the second half from international.
And I'll repeat it again we're quite comfortable in our outlook.
And so Cai let me just jump in there.
Let me add on the Qatar.
When you add in the Patriot and the A dock that covers over half half of that value you discussed.
And there's several other opportunities that will fill in the rest.
They're factored.
So we feel very confident that we'll be able to achieve that number of about $5.5 billion of the international in the second half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And the last one your pattern of the Q3 and Q4 is really something of a hockey stick.
As you pointed out low 12s margins and then a strong ramp in the fourth quarter.
Could you give us some color on like what -- why is it that low? Why does it move up in the fourth quarter just in a general sense? Is it sort of overhead pressure from bidding this stuff not getting the contracts? What are the key issues? Yes so Cai a lot of it has to do with the cadence of the bookings.
We had a very strong quarter in missiles like we said before.
We have strong bookings in the back half of the year particularly international.
There's really nothing too remarkable relative to the margin cadence.
It's frankly not very different than what we were anticipating when we gave guidance on the January call.
The performance improvements that were pulled from Q3 into Q2 probably -- are probably worth noting.
But again there's nothing too remarkable with respect to the cadence.
The fourth quarter is going to be strong similar to what we've seen in prior years and that's just the nature of the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dave could you give the positives and negatives EAC adjustments gross? Yes sure.
You mean for the second quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes please.
Yes.
The -- well the net change was $88 million favorable and that was about 1.5%.
But if you exclude the AWD situation it was about 2.2% overall.
So -- and again we provide some of the details much...
I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Yes just in -- I'm sorry just in dollars the positives as you give them in every 10-Q.
The gross favorable was in line with -- actually it was a little bit better with respect to comparing to the first quarter.
It was about $20 million better just under $270 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just -- what I'm trying to get at is you've called out the Australian radar last quarter.
You called out a little bit this Patriot item the refurb I guess.
I'm just trying to get a sense as to whether these truly are particularly this quarter one-offs that stand out.
Or every quarter you guys have positives and negatives just like every other defense company.
And how much of this is really unusual versus you're calling it out because it's the biggest negative you have? Well I would say the -- clearly the AWD Destroyer situation is unique.
There's no other contract like that within the company.
But again it's worth reiterating.
It's a tremendous growth opportunity and something that plays to our strengths.
So I would say that is unique a unique situation.
We talked a little bit on the first quarter call about an international Patriot program.
It was a refurbishment program.
I think we are continuing to see meaningful improvement in that program.
And we believe going to the back half of the year that the major issues are behind us.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just over on the Patriot program could you describe a little bit what you're doing from an industrial standpoint? My sense is that you've had some international programs that are kind of completing and running off and you were expecting to get some of these 2 big orders that you're just obtaining in the second half earlier.
So is there a line break? Are there people that are -- are there layoffs there or people being moved to other areas temporarily? What are you doing? And how much work are you doing in anticipation of these 2 contracts that you're inventorying right now? Let me take that Joe.
Number one as you can remember in the first half -- early first half of the year we did book a Kuwait deal.
So the Kuwait deal is our bridge into the Qatar and then this other opportunity international opportunity that we talked about.
So I think we -- right now we have the factory level loaded.
We continue to perform well.
And it is a strong I would say producer and supporter of our margins moving forward on the Patriot line especially on the production aspects of Patriot.
.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Your Missile Systems backlog was very strong.
And if you look over the last 3 years we've seen very strong missile demand for Raytheon for Lockheed for MBDA.
What do you see driving this high level of demand and where do you see it heading from here? Well Doug I mentioned that I just got back after 2 trips to the Middle East and spending some time at the Farnborough Airshow talking to quite a few of not only our international customers but also our domestic customers.
One of the themes that we -- I heard consistently from leaders of countries across the Middle East Europe and the Asia-Pacific region was the following and it's because of all the uncertainty that is out there.
They used the same words slightly differently but it was the same across.
And that was a strong defense is a strong deterrence.
So what we're seeing is across all these nations is that they're looking to build up their defenses.
They're looking at the weapons they need.
And they're making sure they have the right stockpiles to support this deterrence capability so that they can defend their nations.
And it's -- so the uncertainty in the world is driving that demand cycle.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But -- do you see this focused perhaps more on missile demand than maybe in other areas? Because it really does stand out I think in terms of growth.
Yes missile demand and it's also the overall Patriot systems and the air defense systems.
If you remember last year we booked a system our NASAM system in Oman.
That again is a defensive-type system and by the way also happens to use AMRAAMs.
But that's the end game here is that these countries are strengthening their defenses to provide a deterrence against the situations they're seeing in the regions they're located.
And that's where the uptick's coming from.
And I think what you're seeing is a strong pull demand for both the tactical missiles as well as our strategic programs.
And when those come together it bodes quite well for our Tucson operation which as you well know we are the largest missile maker in the world and there is a lot of demand both domestically and internationally for the full spectrum of products that we're offering out there.
And we're seeing strong demand for air-to-air.
We're seeing strong demand for air-to-surface.
And strong demand for surface-to-surface and surface-to-air across the board.
But when you roll it all up it's all about these nations wanting to provide strong defense for their country.
And the reason they want that strong defense is they want to make anyone out there think twice before they do anything.
And that's driving the demand and it's just based on personal contact with the heads of the militaries of these countries.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then before you talked a little bit about the importance of organic investment.
And if I have this right I mean your intent is to increase that investment as many of your peers are in presumably both R&amp;D and CapEx.
But can you talk a little bit about the scale of organic investment you're looking at and the time frame over which you determine the business case when you make these investment decisions? So let me just start out briefly and then we'll add some -- Tom will add some color.
But I do want to remind everyone that back in January when we gave our initial guidance we talked about strategic investments that we were going to embark on for the company both in 2014 and beyond.
I think we talked at that point about 20 basis points' worth of investment to strategically and organically grow the company.
We're continuing down that path and have been.
We see that as a critical tool to grow the company organically.
And again it's part of our overall thinking on the best way to deploy our capital.
So I'll jump in on that.
A key element to our win on FAB-T and last year on Next Generation Jammer and AMDR was our investments in technology to bring the best possible capabilities to our customers.
So we continue to invest to achieve a competitive advantage in the marketplace both on the domestic side and also on the international marketplace.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And is there any time frame that you tend to focus on when you make these decisions in terms of when the returns would likely come? We break it up into almost 3 areas.
I mean there is -- we look as far out as 10 years out in terms of where we think technology is moving.
We want to make sure that we're in the right spot at that time.
And I'll -- then my example to that is the GaN technology we have talked about in the past.
It was about a 10-year investment process in that to set us up to win some major programs like AMDR and also Next Generation Jammer.
We also look out about the 5-year period in terms of what's changed and making sure that we're focused in that area in terms of what investments we need to make to be prepared to win business in that area or keep our products relevant.
For example on Patriot we continue to invest in Patriot to make it relevant in the latest technologies so that we're competitive in the global marketplace.
And then we also look in the near term the 1 to 2 years to see what tweaks we need to make in terms of our technology investments to ensure that we're competitive on I guess the relevant competitions that are going on in that time period.
Hopefully that helps.
But it's not just tomorrow.
It really is kind of broken down into these 3 major time chunks.
Your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Guys Raytheon has done a great job positioning itself for a lot of these international opportunities and we can see that in international sales as a percentage of revenue and what you said about bookings.
I'm just curious what inning do you think we're in in terms of this pretty significant international growth cycle? I really appreciate the question.
So let me tell you why.
We reset the game.
So we're back -- we've reset it back to the first inning and let me explain that.
We've recently made some major changes in our international structure and focusing on a set of countries and looking at countries in a different way international countries.
And the way we're looking at them is each country as a market and understanding what elements of that country need solutions that Raytheon can provide and can provide in a better way than our competitors.
And that's starting to pay off and it's filling the pipeline for the future.
And I would say we have a lot of upside potential in the international marketplace because of this focus and this strategy we have.
We've been for example in the Middle East for 48 years I may have talked about this on a phone call before but we give out something called a service award pin.
And a couple of years back I was in Saudi and gave out the 2 40-year service pins to 2 Saudi nationals.
So we're heavily engaged in the Middle East.
We've been in Japan for example for over 50 years.
And we have a very strong brand internationally.
And I think that all together our time in these places the fact that we have operated successfully on programs -- in many cases you can check our records on some of these international programs we have.
We've taken over from our competitors who have not been able to complete the programs.
So we have the solid reputation and brand.
We are leveraging that into essentially set the clock back to the first inning and putting more folks on the ground.
We're also doing much more work in localization.
And we've significantly increased our global supply chain here over the last several years.
The bottom line is we're essentially repositioning the company to move beyond our 30% revenue for this year in terms of international.
I don't know if that helps but you -- we just can't let -- keep going inning -- inning to inning.
You got to reset the game every now and then.
And this is -- in the last 6 months we've been off resetting the game.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And when we think about the company big picture could we get to 40% international sales as a percentage of revenue? Are those types of targets realistic long term? Yes.
I would say that they're absolutely realistic long term.
I'd rather not give a specific time frame.
But if you just simply look at where we will likely end up from a backlog perspective at the end of this year we will be in the 40% range plus or minus depending on how exactly things play out.
But I would say longer term you should be thinking about the company as a 40-plus percent international company and view us more from a global perspective than just a domestic exporter.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave I was wondering if you could help me with this.
And I know somebody asked somewhat earlier.
But if I look at the first quarter which was higher the second quarter was comfortably ahead of the 21.5% of the year's earnings that you projected.
You're buying back at a higher rate year-to-date than you had been running.
I guess why aren't you in a position to be talking about a higher guidance? What's the risks in the second half that maybe I'm not seeing? Okay.
So we are tracking to the guidance that we provided back in January.
There's strong program performance at both missiles and IIS and that offsets the shift in the cadence at IDS for some of the international awards that we addressed earlier.
These moved from sort of first half to second half is the best way to think about it.
And we also had again the AWD impact.
We're continuing to see strength in the second half at SAS particularly from a sales standpoint.
Now I think I understand what you're getting at.
We had a strong earnings quarter in the second quarter.
We exceeded the high end of our adjusted EPS guidance by about $0.11.
But the improvement is driven by volume and performance improvements that were largely expected in the third quarter.
So again we do feel good about the year.
In particular we see strong second half bookings.
And sequentially sequentially now we see low single-digit sales growth from the first half to the second half.
I think when you stand back and you go through the numbers flow that is associated with what I just described I think you would reach the same conclusion.
I'll point this out for probably the fourth or fifth time: We do see a strong second half of this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking on the P&amp;L why was G&amp;A up in dollars as a percentage of sales in the second quarter? Is there something unusual or is this the right level to be thinking about? Well there's a couple of things going on and we had some public disclosure on this.
There's a new stock compensation program.
And the accounting was such that we recorded that in the second quarter and that's in G&amp;A.
The CAS harmonization that we've been talking about for a while is also part of the G&amp;A line.
We are awaiting -- there's a timing with respect to an insurance recovery for some property damage that we had that shifted into the fourth quarter and came out of the second quarter.
So by and large I would say again there's nothing too remarkable.
But with the CAS harmonization and some of the other things that we've talked about G&amp;A will likely be higher than what it's been in the past.
But I do want to point out that when you stand back and look at the overall cost structure of the company that is continuing to improve.
It's just where these expenses and expense reductions are taking place.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and last question for Tom is just I don't know if you addressed Turkey in terms of the Patriot but it's been quite a turnaround for that opportunity.
And recently I get there was a down select.
How should we size that opportunity to think about where that goes from here? On Turkey or Poland? Which one do you want? LLC Research Division</strong> Turkey was what I was thinking because you talked about Poland.
So on Turkey I mean there's -- they're in discussions with the Chinese.
There was lot of press out there.
They have not concluded the negotiations.
They have asked us to extend the validity of our proposal which we have done.
As you may know the U.S.
government and NATO have significant concerns relative to a Chinese solution for Turkey and being able to tie that Chinese solution into the NATO system.
So they've -- both the U.S.
government and NATO have raised this issue to the highest levels of Turkey's government and that is being worked in the background.
But we continue to stand ready with our Patriot offering.
We believe we have a solid offering that includes coproduction and some co-development in Turkey to enable the Turkish government to essentially increase their integrated air and missile defense capabilities for their nation.
So we stand ready for the next steps.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe one for Dave.
I just wanted to kind of get a little more color on CapEx.
Last year you were about $330 million in CapEx spend which was below guidance.
This year I think between PP&amp;E and software your guidance is about $450 million according to the last Q.
I was just wondering are you still tracking to that number? And then directionally as you think about footprint reductions should we think CapEx is headed up down flat as we go forward? Just some color on that area please? Sure.
So we've talked about investing in ourselves and we're continuing to do that.
Tom spoke before about strategic and technology investments.
Some of that is part of what you're seeing in our increasing capital this year.
We are continuing to make good progress on utilization improvements.
We're tracking to about a 2% reduction this year.
We talked about a goal of a 10% utilization improvement over the next 3 to 5 years and we have plans in place and are moving towards those objectives.
So I would say from a -- if you stand back and look at what's going on from a capital spend perspective I think we are driving value the right way through those type of investments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Dave is this kind of like new tooling to [indiscernible] system? I'm sorry.
This is like new -- say it again? LLC Research Division</strong> So these type of investments is an example of sort of new tooling for [ph] better utilization? I'm just trying to understand why -- what was really driving the need for the investment.
Okay.
So we talked about the R&amp;D-type investments right? The technology and strategic investments.
Some of these may be building prototypes and things like that going forward.
With respect to real estate when we're consolidating facilities we have to build out new space with skips and additional sort of special things that we use at our business.
So some of that is built into the capital.
But again I would say that these are all things that we're doing today to improve the business going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I understand much better.
And are you approaching peak or is there still more to go? I would -- I'll talk a little more about that probably on the third quarter call.
At this stage you probably want to think about it as flattish as we go into 2015.
This isn't formal guidance but kind of an early perspective is we're going to continue to do the type of things that we've embarked on in '14.
So I would say to think about it as flattish that's probably the best path forward here.
.
Your last question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> International versus domestic sales growth that you've got baked in for the second half of the year how does that break out? Okay.
So in the second half of this year we're seeing domestic sales growth probably down maybe 1% to 5% or 6%.
From an international perspective we're seeing sales growth of maybe 2% to 5-plus percent on the back half of the year.
And then if you take in combination we're essentially in line with where we were in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave I have to ask you on pension.
No pension questions today.
It's a sensitive subject [ph].
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I know you have your annual update in Q3.
The last couple of years that's been a positive upper for you.
Can you talk about that? And then everything else pension-related CAS and mortality and all of that what's kind of changed relative to 3 months ago? So you're right we'll talk about it in a little more detail in the third quarter.
And it's very difficult to forecast how that's going to play out with respect to truing up actuarial assumptions.
With respect to the new mortality tables that are going to be used in the future I mentioned on the last call that we have already taken that into account in our earlier assumptions and started to do that next year.
So we don't see a -- any kind of significant impact from a pension standpoint on that or from that.
We mentioned a little earlier about the legislation with respect to pension interest rate stabilization.
It was first enacted in 2012.
And there's a bill that's right now in the Senate not enacted yet but it could be going forward.
Now there's a lot of moving parts here with respect to stabilization.
Initially it affects funding CAS expense and taxes and then going forward also impacts that FAS expense.
So we're evaluating our funding strategy under the legislation.
And we also have to take into account the discount rate environment demographics return on assets.
I did mention in my earlier remarks that if the House bill were enacted in its current form it could impact us by about $0.10.
But we see that being offset by the R&amp;D tax credit which is also worth about $0.10 assuming that's enacted.
Again we'll provide further guidance on the Q3 call and give a little more detail then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one on the international side the bookings strength that you're talking about in the second half of the year you're anticipating in the second half of the year what would that do from the perspective of bringing in advances in the back half of the year? It would be a plus from an advance standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Any sort of quantification? No.
I'd not rather not get too specific on that at this point.
I appreciate the question but we can't get too specific.
Again these are factored and the advances are also factored.
All right.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our third quarter conference call in October.
Glenn? Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I'll be your event manager for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Glenn.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website on raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Dave and then we'll move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
This morning Raytheon reported solid quarter results driven by strong operational performance across the company.
Notably our margins in the third quarter improved over last quarter due to solid program execution and our book-to-bill ratio in the quarter was 1.07 as a result of global customer demand for our diverse range of solutions.
Raytheon's broad and deep portfolio of advanced systems continues to be a key strength for the company.
Overall we performed well in the third quarter and continue to position the company for long-term growth.
In the quarter domestic bookings were solid and drove a book-to-bill ratio of 1.15.
Demand in the third quarter came from across our domestic portfolio including significant bookings from the FAA and other civil customers in addition to core defense.
I would note that this is the second consecutive quarter with domestic book-to-bill ratio above 1.
Turning now to the international market.
The shifting geopolitical landscape and the evolving global threat environment are driving demand for our advanced solutions.
And as we mentioned on the last call Qatar signed an LOA for $2 billion Patriot integrated air and missile defense system with the U.S.
government in early July.
Since this is an FMS deal the next step is for us to get a contract with the U.S.
government.
We are currently working through the process to finalize our agreement with the U.S.
Army and we expect to book an order before year-end.
Another international booking opportunity we see in the fourth quarter is also for Patriot System.
This is a $2 billion opportunity for 6 fire units.
As we mentioned on the last call we expect to book this before year-end.
As we look beyond this year into 2015 we see continued demand for our core capabilities from our global customers which highlights our alignment with our priorities.
For example there are a number of upcoming domestic opportunities in electronic warfare including the Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement program which is an EW system for ships; and the radio frequency countermeasures program which is a Jammer receiver to protect special operations aircraft.
These pursuits along with other opportunities represent meaningful future electronic warfare growth potential for the company.
For cyber we're winning new business and see significant opportunities developing in both our domestic and international markets.
As we've discussed on prior calls we expect a couple of large international Patriot decisions next year.
These are for Poland's integrated air and missile defense system and South Korea's upgrade of their existing systems to Configuration-3 plus.
These opportunities reflect ongoing global demand for our advanced integrated air and missile defense solutions.
Domestically we are in a competition for the Missile Defense Agency's long-range discrimination radar a large radar to be utilized for homeland missile defense which we expect to be awarded in 2015.
We are well positioned for this competition.
These are just a few of the many opportunities that we see developing in the year ahead.
To position the company for long term we continue to make investments in game-changing technologies.
Today Raytheon is a global leader in the effects market.
By leveraging our world-class talent and focusing our IRAD efforts on developing the next generation of weapons systems we are winning early technology programs now to remain at the forefront of this market in the future.
We see 2 key areas where our customers are seeking more sophisticated capabilities: directed energy and high-speed weapon systems.
In directed energy we received a contract award in the third quarter to develop a vehicle-based high-energy laser weapon system for the U.S.
Marines capable of defeating low-flying threats.
The Raytheon-built high-energy laser will be packaged to meet the customer's demand in size weight and power requirements for the weapon system.
In high-speed weapons the increasing importance of standoff strike capability and speed to target are driving customer interest and we are heavily engaged in this developing area.
Raytheon has won a position on 3 key programs: hypersonic air-breathing weapon concept the tactical boost glide and the conventional prompt strike.
The first 2 are DARPA programs and the last one is for the U.S.
Navy.
While initial orders in both of these areas are relatively small they are the seed corn for significant long-term prospects.
Our investments in technology have been yielding results.
For example after the close of the quarter the U.S.
Air Force awarded Raytheon a contract for engineering and manufacturing development of the Three Dimensional Expeditionary Long Range Radar or 3DELRR a new mobile radar that will detect identify and track drones missiles and aircraft.
It's a versatile system that can be used for both ISR and missile defense missions.
We believe 3DELRR has significant domestic and international sales potential over the next 2 decades.
To win the competition we leveraged many of the technology and manufacturing investments that we have made over the last 10 years.
I should mention that this competitive award is currently under protest.
But as we said before that seems to be the new normal.
In today's environment while having advanced technology as a key discriminator providing it at an affordable cost is just as crucial.
To that end we continue to aggressively implement lean manufacturing initiatives execute our strategic sourcing plan across our supply chain optimize our global shared services and reduce our footprint.
The bottom line is that we are focused on driving cost savings and affordability for our customers and returns for our shareholders.
This also helps us drive competitive advantage.
In summary I'm pleased with the overall results in the quarter.
We are executing our strategy.
We are delivering the performance and solutions our customers need.
And we are building the foundation for long-term global growth.
I'd like to thank everyone on the Raytheon team for all of their efforts in the third quarter and as we work to finish out a strong year.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the third quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slide that we issued earlier this morning so if everyone could turn to Page 3.
We're pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the third quarter.
Bookings were $5.9 billion and sales were $5.5 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.07.
Operating margin was strong at 13.9%.
EPS from continuing operations was $1.65 and was reduced by $0.06 per share to reflect the retroactive year-to-date impact of pension funding stabilization as part of the highway bill enacted in August and actuarial updates related to our pension plans.
And just to be clear the $0.06 per share is comprised of $0.11 per share due to lower CAS expense partially offset by $0.03 per share for the favorable impact from the reduction of the effective tax rate and $0.02 per share for the actuarial updates that I just mentioned.
On an adjusted basis operating margin was strong at 13.2%.
Adjusted EPS in the quarter was $1.57.
We also generated solid operating cash flow $423 million for the quarter.
The highway bill lowered cash flow by about $50 million in the quarter and will impact full year by about $150 million.
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for $200 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchased to 6.8 million shares for $650 million.
Turning now to Page 4.
Our total company bookings for the quarter were $5.9 billion an increase of about $200 million compared to the third quarter 2013.
And on a year-to-date basis bookings were $16.9 billion an increase of approximately $2.3 billion over the same period last year.
On a trailing 4-quarter basis our book-to-bill ratio was 1.08.
For the quarter international bookings were 24% of total new awards and on a year-to-date basis was 28%.
For the year we continue to expect international to be in the range of 35% to 40% of total company bookings.
As Tom just mentioned we have significant international opportunities that we expect to book in the fourth quarter.
We continue to see our full year 2014 bookings to be in the range of $23.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
This would result in a book-to-bill ratio of between 1.0x and 1.05x.
Backlog at the end of the third quarter was $33.2 billion up $1 billion compared to the same period last year and funded backlog was $22.9 billion up approximately $700 million again compared to last year's third quarter.
Now on Slide 5.
For the third quarter 2014 sales were $5.5 billion and year-to-date were $16.7 billion.
International sales were approximately 30% of total sales in the quarter and were up just under 4% compared to last year's third quarter.
IDS had third quarter 2014 net sales of $1.4 billion.
The change from Q3 2013 was driven by the completion of the production phases on a couple of international Patriot programs.
IIS net sales of $1.5 billion in the quarter were relatively consistent with the same quarter last year.
Missile systems had third quarter 2014 net sales of $1.5 billion.
As expected we saw lower sales from U.S.
Army programs.
Sales were also impacted by the planned transition from development to production on Standard Missile-3 in this year's third quarter.
And SAS had net sales of $1.5 billion.
Lower volume on intersegment sales was the primary driver when compared to last year's Q3.
Excluding the reduced intersegment sales SAS's sales were in line with the third quarter 2013.
Now moving to Page 6.
Overall the company margins were strong and exceeded our guidance.
Our reported operating margin was 13.9% and on an adjusted basis was 13.2%.
On a year-to-date basis our operating margin was 13.8% and 12.6% on an adjusted basis.
As most of you know recent pressure on the Defense budget has been driving the Defense Department to look for innovative ways to deploy resources more effectively.
One of these ways has been the rollout of DoD's better buying power initiatives.
Along these lines we continue to find ways to reduce the total price of our offerings leverage exportability and strengthen competitiveness.
We're making thoughtful investments in technology with the objective of lowering program development and production costs and positioning Raytheon to further expand internationally while improving our global competitive posture.
We're doing this while maintaining a focus on strong margins.
So looking at the business margins.
All were up sequentially from the second quarter.
Strong operating performance across our businesses combined with our focus on execution productivity and efficiency continues to be reflected in our financial results.
At missiles and SAS margins were higher than the same period last year.
Solid overall program performance drove improvement at both businesses.
At SAS we experienced strong material and labor efficiencies particularly with tactical airborne systems production.
The change in IDS was primarily driven by a few international air and missile defense programs nearing completion.
And at IIS we saw higher net program efficiencies in last year's third quarter.
Overall the company is performing well.
Turning now to Page 7.
Third quarter 2014 EPS was $1.65 and on an adjusted basis was $1.57.
EPS for the third quarter 2014 was better than expected primarily due to the improved tax rate and overall margin performance.
On Page 8 we are updating the company's financial outlook for 2014 which now includes the recent enactment of the highway bill.
Based on our performance year-to-date we've narrowed our sales range guidance raising the low end by $200 million.
We now expect our full year 2014 net sales to be in the range of between $22.7 billion and $23 billion.
And we have -- and as we have done in prior years during the third quarter we updated our actuarial estimates related to our pension plans.
As a result of this update and the enactment of the highway bill the FAS/CAS adjustment for the year decreased by $59 million from $346 million to $287 million or $0.12 per share.
We repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for $200 million in the quarter and have narrowed our diluted share count to be in the range of between 312 million and 313 million shares for 2014 which would be a 4% reduction at the midpoint compared with full year 2013.
Now I'll address the updates to our EPS and changes to our tax outlook in just a minute.
As I mentioned earlier operating cash flow in the quarter was solid and we expect it to remain strong in Q4.
I do want to point out that our updated 2014 guidance for operating cash flow is slightly lower reflecting the implementation of the highway bill which is expected to have an approximate $150 million net cash impact.
This is due to both the lower cash recovery and higher cash taxes which together more than offsets the lower required pension contributions.
We now expect our 2014 guidance for operating cash flow to be between $2.15 billion and $2.35 billion.
Turning now to Page 9.
We've provided you with a walk showing the change to both our GAAP and adjusted EPS outlook for 2014.
You'll note that we raised our full year 2014 adjusted EPS guidance on the high end by $0.10 due to the lower expected tax rate for the full year.
And given our confidence level we've narrowed the range.
Adjusted EPS is now expected to be between $5.91 and $6.01 for 2014.
As a reminder we've not included in our 2014 guidance the potential extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
The change in GAAP EPS includes the $0.10 for the tax improvement and also includes the $0.12 reduction in the FAS/CAS adjustment that I've mentioned a moment ago.
We now expect full year 2014 EPS to be between $6.77 and $6.87.
Now if you'd move to Page 10.
We've raised SAS margins to reflect the stronger year-to-date performance narrowed the range for IIS and missiles and lowered IDS's margins to reflect business performance year-to-date.
With that said the fourth quarter for IDS is expected to be strong.
For the company we see adjusted operating margin to be in the range of between 12.7% and 12.8% for the full year.
Before moving on to Page 11 I wanted to make you aware that we've entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a privately held company in our core defense business for approximately $400 million.
We expect the closing next month after completing normal regulatory reviews and approvals.
Given that this acquisition is still under regulatory review and subject to a nondisclosure agreement we're unable to comment further until it closes.
So if you could please move to Page 11.
We have provided a FAS/CAS pension adjustment matrix for 2015 as we've done in prior years.
It does include the estimated impact of the highway bill.
And just to be clear the discount rate and the actual asset returns won't be known until we close out 2014.
As you can see on Slide 12 we've provided an outlook for required funding and CAS recovery that include the impact of the highway bill compared to our prior outlook from last January.
Required pension contributions are decreasing from both the prior outlook as well as sequentially from 2014.
CAS recovery still increases although at a slower rate.
This has a favorable impact on our pretax net cash flow over the forecast horizon.
Again markets are volatile and asset returns will change before year-end which will affect these estimates.
We'll provide a more detailed pension outlook on our January year-end call.
Before concluding let me take just a moment to bring you up-to-date on e-Borders.
As we announced on August 15 we received a decision from the arbitration tribunal in connection with the proceeding between Raytheon Systems Limited and the U.K.
Home Office that the UK Border Agency unlawfully terminated RSL.
As a result we were awarded approximately $300 million.
The Home Office has since filed a challenge to the decision.
Payment of amounts awarded to Raytheon is now pending resolution of the challenge.
As such we have not included the impact in our third quarter results or in our full year guidance.
Due to the ongoing legal matters we cannot comment further at this time.
So in summary we saw solid performance in the third quarter.
We have strong bookings and strong margins.
We expect to close out the year with a number of new awards that establishes a solid foundation for the future.
Combined with our strong cash flow and balance sheet we believe we're well positioned to continue to drive value for our customers and our shareholders.
With that Tom and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I would love to ask you more about your $400 million acquisition but I know you said not to do that.
I know you would Joe but we just can't talk about it.
Research Division</strong> No I understand.
But you said it was in your core defense area.
I noted that one of your competitors made an acquisition in the last week or so a $200 plus million acquisition in the commercial cyber area which is something that you guys have expressed some interest in.
And talking about BAE just to be specific Tom I was wondering if you could update us on your thoughts on that area.
Yes.
As we mentioned on past calls our first priority is growing the company organically.
And I did talk on just prior to this relative to all the technology investments that we have made over the last 10 years and they're coming to fruition now in terms of the wins.
We just -- I talked about 3DELRR and I mentioned it's in protest.
But I think that was a big win for Raytheon and we'll work through the protest.
But also in the last year we also won Next Generation Jammer Air and Missile Defense Radar and also FAB-T.
So this focus on the organic growth is working.
The other areas -- we are looking in taking a disciplined approach for acquisitions in our core markets.
And one of our core markets is cyber.
And so we are looking at that area.
And we'll continue to look at acquisitions to fill gaps in our core markets as we proceed forward.
So Joe we have talked about our focus on growth.
Tom has made that a top priority for the company.
We are firstly focused on organic but growth through acquisitions where it makes strategic and economic sense will also be part of the equation.
So this really shouldn't come as any surprise.
We have a very healthy balance sheet strong cash balances continue to see strong cash flows.
So this is just one of our -- one of the elements of capital deployment that we've talked about certainly over the past year 1.5 years.
And Joe just back to your question on cyber.
We mentioned that on an earlier call that we had gotten a major award from an international customer.
So we have gone into the international marketplace relative to cyber government cyber work.
We also received an announcement here internally kept but for another international customer this quarter.
And so we are off and running relative to strong cyber work in the government arena on the international side as well as the domestic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more which is on the IDS side.
You took down your margin expectation a little bit for the year and you mentioned it was just based on what you've done year-to-date.
I was wondering if you could give a little more color.
Is that based on -- largely on timing of the Patriot awards that you expect here soon that are coming a little later in the year than maybe you originally thought? Or is there something else there? Yes.
So that's a fair question.
IDS's fourth quarter margins are expected to be in the high 16% to low 17% range.
So as I said a few minutes ago and Tom alluded to as well it's a very strong quarter for IDS.
For the full year we've lowered the IDS margin range to between 15.7% and 15.8%.
And as you just mentioned it's primarily based on year-to-date performance.
More specifically within the fourth quarter we see stronger margins than the year-to-date run rate driven by some customer and program milestones related to risk retirement.
Mix isn't a significant factor.
I'll tell you this again mix is not a significant factor in the fourth quarter as we have some mature production programs nearing completion that are offset by the impact of the new starts.
So again we're seeing a strong fourth quarter strong margins good productivity.
It's just slightly lower than what we had expected earlier.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just continuing on IDS.
You talked about the fact that you're ramping down on some international missile defense-related contracts and you're going to be ramping up on others.
And then in the meantime you certainly have U.S.
missile defense sales that often I think fill in gaps of there.
But how should we expect the profile of these revenues to look? I mean should we see a lull of new work starts? Or can this stay pretty constant through new programs? Yes.
I think IDS -- I mean it actually had a very good quarter.
And so we're definitely pleased with their performance and that they also had strong bookings sales and are looking forward into the fourth quarter and 2 large international bookings that will be coming in on the fourth quarter.
So we -- bottom line is IDS is very strong.
And we see the revenue maintaining through the fourth quarter and then into the next year.
So I think bottom line is we believe IDS is solid moving forward.
So let me just add a little bit to what Tom just mentioned.
So third quarter sales were down from the prior year and slightly down which is what Tom was alluding to from our expectations.
We had assumed that Qatar Patriot award at the end of the third quarter and it's moved into now the fourth quarter.
We do see a quick ramp on the Qatar program in Q4 as well as the other international Patriot award that Tom again mentioned just a few minutes ago which combined drive the fourth quarter sales growth.
We've been working with our supply chain to prepare for these awards.
And you'll note that we did build some inventory over the last couple of quarters.
We've built ahead and we've done this before and we'll recognize the revenue upon award during the fourth quarter before year-end.
So I hope that helps.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> No that does help.
And then related to this when you look at some of the positive trends out there -- but this is probably terrible to refer to as positive.
But you talked about the global threat environment and how this is something that Raytheon can -- is going to increase demand for Raytheon products potentially.
Could you give a little more clarity on that? In other words when you look at some of the situations in the world right now such as in the Middle East are these things that lead you to believe there may be more demand in the near term for -- within some of your business units? Let me start in Eastern Europe.
And I mentioned on my discussions upfront that we're in a major competition in Poland for an integrated air and missile defense system and that's had a heightened sense of urgency in Poland relative to the activities going on in Eastern Europe especially relative to Ukraine.
So we do see that kind of coming moving a little bit to the left into 2015.
As we move over to the Middle East I mean it's -- you see this in the paper every day ISIS is right now the big overarching threat and it's more of a tactical-type threat and more effects based.
And it was released in the newspaper about a quantity of Tomahawks that were used in the initial days of our efforts there.
So in the area of effects we would see a need in the future to replenish the effects that were used.
The -- as we also look at the Middle East we do see a strong sense in having -- and this is based on my visits to a majority of the countries in the region here in the last 3 months.
I think it kind of sums up in the following words and I heard it in all these different countries from senior leaders of the countries and that is a strong defense is a strong deterrence.
And they were using that in light of integrated air and missile defense.
And so you'll see that we completed a major effort in the UAE on Patriot upgrades.
We are now into working with Lockheed on the THAAD system and other TPY-2 radars in that country.
We move over to Saudi we're working several projects in Saudi Arabia relative to improving their defense posture.
You heard about the Qatar deal which the first part of it is the Patriot.
The second part of it is an early warning radar.
And then there's also an air defense operating center that's in there.
And then eventually they'll buy THAAD which has TPY-2 radars in it.
So again a strong position in Qatar moving forward.
And bottom line is the -- we are well positioned in that region for growth relative to our core products.
So I don't know if that helps but it's -- our business is driven by the threat.
There is a threat.
And that's increasing -- it's increasing demand for our proven technologies and also new technologies as we see in the awards that I mentioned earlier on the call.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave I thought we'd kick it off on the cash front.
It looks like you're having $1 billion of cash over the next couple of years.
What do you intend to spend it on? You picked right up on that Rob didn't you? Yes.
So look the company doesn't anticipate any wholesale changes to the way we've talked about capital deployment.
We've had I think a policy that has served the shareholders well with respect to a balance around capital deployment with respect to dividends and share repurchases.
We've funded the pension plan from our perspective appropriately.
We've invested in our sales.
Tom mentioned a couple of technology investments we've made.
We're going to continue to do that as we move forward.
There is a cost obviously associated with consolidating footprint or improving utilization.
So we'll continue to invest in ourselves from that perspective as well.
I mentioned to one of your colleagues earlier relative to acquisitions and smartly investing in acquisitions that make strategic sense and importantly financial sense both in the near and longer term.
So the short version is we understand our cash position quite well and we continue to look for ways to best drive both near-term and long-term shareholder value.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up.
Your book-to-bill has been over 1x over the last 12 months and year-to-date.
When do you expect this book-to-bill to actually translate into revenues? Yes.
So we've talked about this in the past.
We have even as far back as last year we had seen the back half of '16 and as we go into 2017 as the reversal of the trend that the sales line has been on over the last 3 or 4 years we still anticipate that being the case.
The bookings are coming in quite strong both domestically and internationally.
So over time we see growth returning to Raytheon.
And again this is almost exactly what we had said about a year ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First a question for you Tom and one for Dave.
Can you just talk a little bit about the structural outlook for the margin...
Yes could you repeat that? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry about that.
So first about outlook for margins and the fact that you are guiding to 35% to 40% of your bookings this year coming from the international marketplace.
What does that portend for margins structurally as we move out over the next 3 to 5 years let's say? Are we looking at a margin rate that should be -- the bias should be a little bit higher than where we are today? I would say right now you hit it right.
On international -- part of our international work in terms of percent of sales has been increasing.
And right now we're -- about 30% of our revenue comes from international.
We also have a backlog to date of 37% international which we believe will end the year greater than 40% of our backlog will be international.
Traditionally our international has been a higher margin business.
Right now we are looking conservatively to the future even taking that in consideration.
And we are looking at our margin performance continuing as it has been in the past.
Margins are very important to us.
We drive them in the business.
We really look at trying to take to take as much cost out of the business.
And we really work on the type of contracts that we go after and pursue to make sure that they will be profitable programs.
And that's I would say a #1 priority for the Raytheon Company and we will continue to support that position.
Research Division</strong> And then -- that's helpful.
Dave for you just going back to the prior question about cash flows and spending.
Can you also just loop in your updated thoughts here on the balance sheet as well? I mean obviously you have a very strong balance sheet.
How do you -- where do you sit relative to the optimal capital structure your view on your debt rating with the agencies? And how should investors think about the cash flows that you're generating and the potential use of cash -- excuse me the balance sheet to support all of these potential activities that you've got out there? Sure.
So a strong balance sheet is one of the issues that I don't see a problem dealing with okay? We're pretty pleased that it's not the other end of the spectrum.
So understanding that we -- the rating -- the target rating for us would not go any lower than a BBB+ as we sit here today and look out.
I know the rating is slightly above that given the strength of the balance sheet and net debt position the outlook for cash flows.
Going forward again I'm not going to repeat everything I just mentioned a moment ago on capital deployment.
From a leverage position we think we're in a relatively good position today.
Could we afford some more leverage on the balance sheet and maintain the rating? Yes we could.
So I think the way that investors should view Raytheon is we're in a strong position financially.
We're not going to sacrifice the strong position financially.
It gives us the ability to pull multiple levers to drive value from an investor's perspective without putting too much risk on the company risk from a financial perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dave to one of the prior questions you made the comment that deals need to have an impact in the near and the long term.
I was hoping that you could just sort of take the opportunity to remind us what you've either said in the past or maybe offer some new commentary on the broader framework for M&amp;A.
It doesn't seem like M&amp;A will be going away necessarily anytime soon.
When you typically think about a deal how quickly do you hope that they're accretive? How do you think about return hurdles versus maybe the internal hurdles in the company? How do you think about synergies risks deal size? Any -- the broader philosophy here I think would be helpful.
Sure.
So -- and I'll do this in a summary way.
Any deal that we end up executing will have a return profile well in excess of the company's weighted average cost of capital part one; part two as we look to fill gaps from a product technology or channel standpoint and that's what makes these acquisitions attractive; number three is with respect to accretion we would target for these deals to be accretive after about 2 years but certainly not much after 3 years.
The deals we've done to date have by and large turned out to be quite successful and have returned incremental value.
I'm not going to get into the specifics but we recently looked at this.
Incremental value that is meaningful from a shareholder's standpoint.
So I don't know Tom if you want to add anything from that perspective? No.
I would just like to address the gaps.
As part of our strategic process we go through is we do identify the gaps and in being able to achieve the growth that we expect from our strategy.
And as part of that gap we look at either internal investments or look at acquisitions to fill those gaps in the most cost-effective manner and also relative to speed and agility.
And so that's really how we look at it.
And that's obviously addressing the synergies that we get by buying these companies.
And just one last point.
With respect to size of acquisitions I know you're aware of this.
I think most people are.
We have not been very active in the M&amp;A market for the last couple of years by design for a number of reasons.
With respect to the size of the acquisitions it's probably not in investors' best interest or the company's best interest to handcuff ourselves to a certain amount.
Certainly I don't see a problem with doing deals larger than we've done in the past.
But again I think the most important thing is when we look at acquisitions we want to make sure that we can maintain the type of capital deployment plan execute the type of capital deployment that we have in the past and we don't want to sacrifice one for the other.
So that's probably the best way to think about how we're thinking about size of acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And if I could ask one quickly on Patriot.
Assuming the Cutter deal goes through you'll have quite a lot of Patriot business hitting at the same time.
And I'm curious if you can just speak to -- I know it's hard to put a number on it.
I'm not necessarily looking for that.
But what does that mean for margins? I mean I imagine a scenario where you're layering shift on top of shift.
I mean it seems like it could be pretty impactful.
Anything you can offer there would be helpful.
Well the more you load up the factory the better the financial performance of the programs are.
And so bottom line is we'll have the Qatar program going through and another major program going through at the same time.
So we do expect improved efficiencies on the production side which then translate into good margin performance in the out years.
Now we do traditionally at the beginning of the program we start off at lower margins on a per basis on each of the programs as we build confidence and reduce risk moving through for example risk on our supply chain or other elements whether we do increase the margins through the lifetime of the program.
That's just the traditional way that we do it from -- to control risk.
I don't know.
Hopefully that helps.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave you had talked about investments you're making to lower cost and -- as one of the things with Better Buying.
And I guess I'm trying to just think about is this something that in a way is driving down revenues because of cost-plus work? And is there any way you can quantify what the impact of that might be? Well let me start -- I'm sure Tom has something to add.
We started talking about this a few years ago and we spoke to it pretty directly early in the year on the January or first quarter call.
I don't remember which one.
We've been investing in technology through a number of different vehicles for a while.
Tom mentioned a few new programs that we have with DARPA.
It's important to understand that when we invest in technology programs -- I'll use Tom's words these are seed corn for the future.
So by definition these are not high-fee or high-margin programs.
They're well below the average company margins.
So that's one form of investment.
There's direct investments through our IRAD and that runs roughly speaking $300 million to $400 million a year.
There's investment from a program perspective.
Tom spoke on one of the calls about the Patriot System and how an earlier international program essentially was set so that we could invest in new Patriot capabilities and technologies.
And that's what's being basically sold across the globe today.
So there's varying ways to think about investments.
Tom I don't know if you wanted to add something to that? Yes.
And getting the cost out is obviously driven to improve our financial performance.
But also our customer has a need.
And I'm sure you've heard about the Better Buying Power that OSD's initiatives that they're running.
We are working with our customers to drive additional cost out of our products.
And part of that is as you said reducing our footprint.
We're driving and optimizing our global shared services part of our business to get cost out.
We also have fully implemented strategic sourcing across our entire business to essentially improve our cost perspective relative to our overall supply chain.
And so it's -- we -- and it's been very successful as we move forward.
Now working with our customer we understand that there's -- they need more for less.
And so it is important for us to make sure that we deliver products that meet their capability needs but at a cost that they can afford.
And we've been doing that and you can see some of the wins we had.
The FAB-T program is a prime example of their use of competition.
And we believe that we're significantly in line with what our customer wants to do in terms of cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave in terms of the pension slide on Page 11.
Is there -- where would we be if the year ended right now in terms of that grid? Okay.
If the year ended today the returns are roughly -- the actual returns are roughly about 3%.
It's important it has been -- the markets have been exceptionally volatile in the past I don't know 4 6 weeks.
There's been a selloff of about 8% -- 7% or 8% from a broader market perspective.
Historically the fourth quarter is the strongest quarter of the year.
So it's very hard to handicap how this plays out.
And -- but today we would be at about 3%.
If you're thinking about the discount rate last year was pegged at 5.1.
If you look at the past month there's been a lot of movement in interest rate markets as well.
I'm sure you're aware of that.
We would be down roughly speaking 50 to 75 basis points again if you look at it from a month ago to roughly where we are today.
The one thing I just -- I want to say this again I probably said it 3 or 4 times.
This is a point in time and I'm pretty confident when I tell you it's absolutely going to change by year-end okay? LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last quick one.
It's just the Other net of $234 million in the cash flow what was that? What does that mean [ph]? Yes.
There was a settlement that we had relative to a long-dated pension litigation with the U.S.
government.
It goes back to -- prior to 2000 that was settled.
That was a big piece of what's in there.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could start on a clarification first.
Was there any cume catch in the segments from the CAS adjustment.
Northrop called one out and Lockheed didn't.
I just didn't know if there's one for you guys.
Yes.
No I saw that and we looked at it obviously.
For us I'll use my term it was a bit of a rounding error.
What we call the flow-through was under $10 million spread across 4 different segments.
So it does impact all companies differently.
It depends on overall percent of completion your mix of fixed price versus cost-type business.
There's a lot of elements that go into that.
But for us it was not meaningful.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The real question was on sales target for the year.
And given the sales kind of what you're shooting for in the quarter didn't come through you did raise the low end of the guidance range.
Even at that low end I think it would be one of the more bountiful sequential growths you've had from a 3Q to 4Q.
You talked about IDS and that's dependent on securing contracts.
And then missiles is the other big moving target.
Is there something there you need to secure as well? And it just seems like you'd put a little bit more factoring behind a lot of this to maybe not have brought up that guidance range.
Yes.
So good question.
Let me just -- I talked about IDS earlier.
So I won't go over that segment again.
With respect to missiles the most important metric from that business's perspective is the book-to-bill which is 1.11 year-to-date.
So we do see a fairly healthy ramp in Q4 on their year-to-date bookings and that's why you're seeing very strong sales in Q4.
So the combination -- and you nailed it the combination of IDS and missile systems have a fairly meaningful impact from a company level perspective in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> I mean missiles was 1.6 in the second quarter.
And obviously it didn't lead to anything in the third quarter.
So it's just it will come you have it in hand and it's just delivering what you have.
Yes.
That's why I wanted to go to the book-to-bill.
That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> One of the things that you've been doing internationally has been partnering.
Could you expand upon that a little bit? For example in Poland it looks like you have a low-cost missile.
You want to integrate onto Patriot and then you've done some things with Kongsberg in Norway to expand the portfolio.
How does that help you maybe in the intermediate term? And also does that mean you have a Patriot 3 -- PAC-3 solution in hand or close to it? Let me start off with the partnering and I'll give you a kind of a phrase.
We partner for success.
And it does help on the international marketplace to be able to partner with strong companies for example Kongsberg.
You mentioned there is another activity in Poland another competition that's not Patriot.
It's for the -- more in line with our NASAM system.
That's a system that protects the nation's capital.
You're correct.
We are partnering with Kongsberg in that pursuit in Poland.
And we think we're in a very good position there.
We also have partnered with Kongsberg in Oman on the NASAMS award that we got last year.
So we do work with them.
We also have a joint venture with TALOS Raytheon systems.
Again we partner with different companies to -- essentially for success and where it makes sense.
Relative to a new low-cost interceptor for Patriot that's just in our overall Patriot road map to continually -- to evolve that system into its next generation.
Right now we have something called Configuration-3 plus.
That was a result of the major development activity funded by the United Arab Emirates that has taken Patriot to essentially state-of-the-art technology.
And -- but we are going beyond that.
We are working solutions for AESA radars for Patriot.
We also are looking at reduced-cost interceptors and other C2 and C4I capabilities for the Patriot System.
That continues -- we continue to do that so that we're relevant in the marketplace and that we continue to win business across the globe.
I hope that helps Howard but that's how we do business.
Research Division</strong> Well it expands the footprint and the partnering.
Exactly.
Expands the footprint and sometimes certain companies have a better footprint in certain countries.
And by partnering you can be more competitive in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> And then for Dave just a follow-up on Sam's pension question.
So if we kind of looked at where we are today versus where we were a year ago the difference is on the order of $300 million.
Is that a fair way to think about it? Today versus what we have -- what we would have talked about in January -- are you talking about -- what year Howard? Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
Well 2015 FAS/CAS outlook versus what you had in January for...
Yes.
If you put a stake in the ground I actually think it's a little bit north of that.
But again I would urge you not to reach any conclusions based on the spot market today especially with respect to the returns.
The other thing I would ask you to look at is the cash flow over the next 3 years which increases substantially as a result of the highway bill.
But you're right.
I mean point to point you're right.
That's the arithmetic.
That's the grid.
But as you well know between now and year-end things will definitely change.
Okay.
We're going to have to leave it there.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
We'll look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter call in January.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Taheesha and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Taheesha.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our fourth quarter conference call.
There is also -- we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and the printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dave Wajsgras our Chief Financial Officer; and Toby O'Brien who will formally take over as CFO on March 2 of this year.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Dave and then we'll move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly the comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Raytheon concluded 2014 with a strong fourth quarter driven by global demand for advanced technologies and solid executions across the company.
Bookings were better than expected at $7.1 billion yielding a book-to-bill ratio of 1.16 for Q4.
Sales were up nearly 5% in the quarter as both domestic and international sales increased and cash flow and margins were strong as well.
These results were made possible by the dedicated efforts of the entire Raytheon team and I want to thank everyone on the team for the strong quarter and solid year.
As I look back on 2014 I'm pleased with our overall performance.
We had a book-to-bill ratio of 1.05 for the year.
Bookings of $24.1 billion exceeded the high end of our expectations.
The company capitalized on key domestic and international opportunities in missile defense electronic warfare cybersecurity C4ISR and training.
This highlights our continued alignment with our customers' priorities and our strong competitive position.
Furthermore we're especially proud that we delivered better-than-expected bookings performance even as one of our anticipated large international Patriot awards moved into the first quarter of 2015.
Operationally we continue to focus on reducing costs improving affordability and delivering strong returns while at the same time we follow through on our commitment to invest in our future.
As we look forward to 2015 we expect to continue to perform well.
Dave will walk you through our 2015 guidance in a few minutes.
Demand from our broad base of customers continues to drive growth in our international business.
Over the past few months I continue to receive feedback from our international customers and investing in national security remains a top priority given the global threat environment and you can see this in both our fourth quarter and full year results.
Full year 2014 international bookings were up 27% over 2013 and were 35% of the total company bookings.
I would note that our international book-to-bill ratio for the year was 1.28 and at 4 -- at the fourth quarter it was 2.0.
So we finished the year with very solid international bookings.
We saw strong demand across our international portfolio during the year including bookings from Qatar for Patriot and an air defense operating center; Kuwait for Patriot fire units; Canada for the North Warning System; several countries for AMRAAM; South Korea for GEM-T missiles and the Australia for the Air Warfare Destroyer among a host of others.
At the end of Q4 international backlog increased to 40% of our total backlog.
Our domestic bookings in 2014 also improved over 2013.
We received key awards in training SM-3 AMRAAM Tomahawk and the FAA STARS program.
We also closed on a key competitive awards including the family of advanced beyond line of sight terminal.
And last summer we also had successful test of the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle that allows us to move forward on this important program that protects the homeland.
We saw strong bookings in our classified business which includes both domestic and international and our overall classified bookings increased by 29% in 2014.
We feel good about the outlook for 2015 and we expect another year with a book-to-bill ratio above 1.
International bookings are expected to continue to be strong representing approximately 1/3 of our total 2015 bookings driven by opportunities from a broad base of global customers and across a wide range of our products and solutions including missiles tactical radars and Command and Control systems.
In addition demand for the proven Patriot systems air and missile defense capability continues.
New opportunities in Asia and the Middle East as well as competitive awards in Europe continue to develop.
As I just mentioned we are close to finalizing a $2 billion Patriot order from an international customer in Q1.
We also expect to conclude negotiations on a Patriot upgrade program in South Korea within the next 6 to 9 months.
Keep in mind the GEM-T missile upgrade awarded to us in Q3 of 2014 is a precursor for Korea's expected follow-on hardware upgrade to Configuration-3 plus.
In Europe Poland is expected to make the final down select for their medium-range integrated air and missile defense competition by the end of this year.
Patriot is 1 of 2 systems in the final round of the competition.
From a domestic perspective the final agreement on the fiscal year 2015 DoD base budget was reached in December.
Modernization accounts came in several billion dollars higher than requested yielding funding increases for several Raytheon programs.
We expect the Administration to submit its fiscal year 2016 defense budget request next week.
While we won't speculate on what the final funding level for DoD will be in fiscal year 2016 we will point out that even if the Budget Control Act caps are not raised at all DoD base budget funding will be several billion dollars higher in fiscal year 2016 than fiscal year 2015.
While the domestic market is still constrained the trajectory of the DoD base budget is finally starting to trend upwards.
We see considerable opportunities in the domestic market.
The growing sophistication of the threat to our national security is creating demand for new innovative solutions.
As a result we are investing more to develop the discriminating technologies and differentiated capabilities that will enable us to provide our customers what they need in areas such as missile defense electronic warfare high-energy lasers advanced propulsion and undersea sensors.
These investments will position us to capture future franchise programs and lay the foundation for growth.
Another area where we see continually evolving a pervasive threat is in cyber.
In fact we've seen a nomenclature change for certain areas of the industry.
Whereas C3ISR expanded to C4ISR this is now evolving to C5ISR where the latest C stands for cyber.
Consistent with this many of our customers are turning to us to incorporate the latest cyber protection into their networks and systems so that they are more secure.
As always we stand ready to help our global customers with our advanced cyber capabilities.
At the end of the last decade we began adding to our organic cyber capabilities through acquisitions and we've made a number of cyber-related acquisitions since then positioning us as a technology leader in this growing market.
Our latest cyber-related acquisition was Blackbird technologies which we completed in the fourth quarter.
Blackbird not only adds unique cyber and other capabilities but also expands key market channels in the special operations and Intel markets for Raytheon.
It is a great fit and we welcome their employees to the Raytheon team.
One of the key strengths of Raytheon is our ongoing commitment to our core values and in 2014 we were recognized for our achievements in the area of ethics and integrity health and safety and sustainability.
We were awarded the 2014 corporate leadership award by Transparency International-USA for our commitment to shape initiatives that promote high business standards transparency and anticorruption in the U.S.
and internationally.
We achieved the best safety record in our history significantly reducing both lost workdays and recordable injuries.
We received the ENERGY STAR Partner award for an EPA and have been recognized as one of the top green companies in America for our strong greenhouse gas reduction program and sound energy practices.
We were also recognized as one of the 100 best corporate citizens by Corporate Responsibility magazine.
Our goal is to continue to build on these successes.
Before wrapping up I'd like to highlight another significant attribute that we pride ourselves on here at Raytheon: that is having a deep bench of management talent as a result of our strong leadership development and succession planning programs.
Over recent weeks we've made announcements that clearly demonstrate this.
I'd like to again congratulate Dave Wajsgras on his new role as President of IIS.
Dave has been CFO of Raytheon since 2006.
His tenure as CFO has been an integral component of an exceptional period of value creation for the company.
His deep industry background and broad experience working with both customers and industry partners will be key in driving the global growth strategy in IIS.
Dave will be succeeding Lynn Dugle who will be retiring after serving more than 10 years with the company including 6 years as a President of IIS where she delivered solid operating results and outstanding leadership.
I'd also like to welcome Toby O'Brien to his new role as CFO of Raytheon.
As many of you know Toby has been with the company for nearly 30 years and has held a number of business CFO roles in the company.
He was CFO at IDS when I led the business.
So I've had the pleasure of working with Toby before and look forward to doing so again.
I'm confident he'll do a great job.
In summary we had another great year at Raytheon and we have a solid outlook for 2015.
With that let me turn it over to Dave.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the fourth quarter and full year results then I'll discuss our outlook for 2015 and after that we'll open up the call for questions.
So during my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning which are posted on the Raytheon website.
Okay if everyone could please move to Page 3.
We delivered solid results in both the quarter and the full year.
Fourth quarter operating margin was 14.1% and on an adjusted basis was 13%.
For the full year operating margin was 13.9% and 12.7% on an adjusted basis.
Our fourth quarter EPS from continuing operations was $1.86 and on an adjusted basis was $1.71.
For the full year EPS from continuing operations was $6.97 and our adjusted EPS was $6.12.
Our sales for the quarter were $6.1 billion and $22.8 billion for the year.
We also generated strong operating cash flow of over $825 million for the quarter and $2.1 billion for the year after a $600 million pretax discretionary pension contribution which was not in our prior guidance.
Additionally the company repurchased 7.7 million shares of common stock for approximately $750 million in 2014.
The company ended the year with a strong balance sheet and net debt of $611 million.
Also as previously announced the company acquired Blackbird technologies in the fourth quarter for approximately $425 million.
If you turn to Page 4 let me go through some of the details of our fourth quarter and full year results.
We had strong bookings of $7.1 billion in the quarter and $24.1 billion for the full year resulting in a year-end backlog of $33.6 billion.
Our book-to-bill ratio in the quarter was 1.16 and 1.05 for the year and the company ended 2014 with a funded backlog of $23.1 billion.
For the quarter international orders represented 50% of our total company bookings and for the full year was 35% of total bookings.
At the end of 2014 approximately 40% of our total backlog was international.
Turning now to Page 5.
We had fourth quarter sales of $6.1 billion up 5% over the same period in 2013 and again was consistent with our expectations.
So looking at the businesses all had higher sales than the same period last year.
Net sales at IDS were $1.6 billion in the quarter.
Compared to last year's fourth quarter the increase was primarily due to higher sales on international Patriot programs.
IIS net sales of $1.5 billion in the quarter were up from the same period last year primarily due to higher volume on classified programs.
Missile Systems had fourth quarter 2014 net sales of $1.7 billion up 5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales on AMRAAM and evolved Sea Sparrow missile programs.
And SAS had net sales of $1.7 billion in Q4 higher than the comparable period last year primarily due to increased sales on an Electronic Warfare systems program.
For the year sales were $22.8 billion down 3.7% again consistent with our expectations.
International sales growth partially offset a decline in domestic sales.
So moving ahead to Page 6 we delivered solid operational performance in the quarter and for the full year.
Looking at business margins in the quarter at IDS IIS and missiles margins were essentially in-line with or better than last year.
In the fourth quarter 2014 IDS achieved some important program milestones and I did briefly discuss this on the call in October.
And at SAS fourth quarter 2013 benefited from the timing of profit adjustments.
Said another way SAS had a tough comparison.
Also you may recall that this business had strong third quarter margins in 2014 driven by the timing of performance that we had previously expected in the fourth quarter.
It's worth noting that at IDS IIS and SAS margins all exceed the guidance range that we provided back in October.
Missile Systems did come in slightly below our guidance driven by program mix.
So on Page 7 you'll see the both the fourth quarter and full year EPS.
In the fourth quarter 2014 our EPS was $1.86 and for the full year was $6.97.
And on an adjusted basis was $1.71 in the fourth quarter and $6.12 for the full year.
EPS for the quarter was strong and included the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit which was not in our prior guidance.
As I previously mentioned the company generated strong operating cash flow of $2.1 billion in 2014.
Again this includes the $600 million pretax or $400 million after tax discretionary pension contribution which was also not in our prior guidance.
Excluding the net discretionary cash contribution our operating cash flow in 2014 would have been $2.5 billion.
It's worth noting that on this basis we exceeded the guidance that we provided you in October due to the timing of collections.
Moving on to the 2015 guidance on Page 8.
We see sales in the range of $22.3 billion to $22.8 billion flat to slightly down from 2014.
As for pension we see the 2015 FAS/CAS adjustment at a positive $197 million which I'll further discuss in just a minute.
We expect net interest expense to be between $225 million to $235 million.
We see our average diluted shares outstanding to be between $305 million and $307 million on a full year basis.
As for our effective tax rate we expect it to be approximately 27.5%.
Our 2015 tax rate is higher than 2014 primarily due to the lapse of the R&amp;D tax credit which again is not included in our 2015 guidance.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is extended it would favorably impact the effective tax rate by about 110 basis points and our EPS by approximately $0.10.
As a reminder we had an $83 million foreign tax credit in the first quarter of 2014 which also impacted the effective tax rate.
And for 2015 we are anticipating a non-cash $88 million tax settlement in the second quarter.
In 2015 we show our EPS to be in the range of $6.20 to $6.35 and our adjusted EPS to be in the range of $5.49 to $5.64.
Our operating cash flow guidance for 2015 is expected to increase to between $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion.
Before moving to Page 9 I want to mention that we expect the 2015 book-to-bill ratio to be between 1.0x and 1.05x driven by continued demand from a broad base of domestic and international customers.
And we again expect stronger bookings in the second half of this year similar to both 2013 and 2014.
So if you move to Page 9.
Here we provided our initial 2015 guidance by business.
Consistent with our prior comments we expect 2015 adjusted margins to continue to be solid in the 12.1% to 12.3% range.
Our margins for 2015 will be impacted by a change in program mix as well as higher investments in technology with the objective of returning to top line growth.
The investments we've made in GaN and cyber are paying off in significant ways today.
We fully expect these new investments in radars directed energy EW and advanced propulsion to lay the foundation for growth over the next few years.
At IDS we see margins in the 15.1% to 15.3% range.
The change from 2014 is driven by mix most notably the planned completion of some of our international Patriot programs.
And in 2015 we are ramping up on several new programs including Qatar Patriot and the new international Patriot award expected in Q1.
As you know we typically see lower margins at the inception of longer duration programs which can improve over time as we retire risks and drive operational improvements.
Longer-term we see IDS margins improving after 2015 as the overall business mix improves and as these new large international programs progress through the production cycle.
Additionally you should note that we expect IIS margins of 7.4% to 7.6% to be impacted by approximately 60 basis points due to the Blackbird Technologies acquisition related costs.
Excluding these IIS margins would be in the range of 8% to 8.2%.
SAS margins are expected to be down driven by mix from lower volume as a result of completing some international programs as well as from higher business investments in 2015.
Looking ahead from a company level perspective as domestic development programs transition to production and our international programs mature we do see opportunity to improve margins in 2016 and beyond.
If you'd now turn to Page 10.
We've provided you with our 2015 outlook by quarter.
You'll notice the sales ramp throughout the year.
In addition the second quarter EPS is favorably impacted due to the previously mentioned non-cash $88 million tax settlement.
And finally on Page 11.
As we've done in the past we provided a summary of the financial impact from pensions in 2014 as well as the projected 2015 through 2017 impact holding all assumptions constant.
As I mentioned earlier we see the 2015 FAS/CAS adjustment at a positive $197 million which reflects our investment returns in 2014 of over 6% on our U.S.
pension assets and the December 31 discount rate of 4.1%.
The discount rate is down 100 basis points from last year.
Further we reduced our long-term return on asset assumptions from 8.75% to 8% due to a change in the allocation of our planned assets and related investment strategies.
Taken together these result in a lower favorable FAS/CAS pension impact in 2015 compared to '14.
Looking beyond 2015 it's important to keep in mind for each 25 basis point change in the discount rate a result of $65 million to $75 million change in FAS/CAS takes place.
Lastly required pension contributions are decreasing in the near term as CAS recovery is increasing.
This has a favorable impact on our pretax net cash flow over the forecast horizon.
Before concluding I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Toby on his promotion.
I've worked with Toby for 9 years and I can tell you that he understands Raytheon has a strong network and is well respected across the entire company.
He has a deep understanding of finance the industry and our customers and he also has a strong commercial background having been the CFO of Raytheon Aircraft for close to 5 years.
His extensive and broad background provides a strong foundation for his and Raytheon's future success.
Now on a personal note I would like to mention that it's been great to work with all of you since joining Raytheon and I'm looking very forward to my new role.
I'm sure I'll see you at future Raytheon events.
Let me conclude by saying that in 2014 Raytheon again delivered solid operating performance with bookings margins earnings and operating cash flow all on or ahead of expectations.
Book-to-bill was strong and our international business continues to grow.
We have a strong balance sheet which gives us substantial flexibility and options to continue to drive shareholder value.
With that we'll open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I want to make sure I understand the bookings and backlog trajectory better.
And you booked $24 billion in '14 that's up from the prior year and your book-to-bill is above 1 yet your backlog declined slightly.
Can you connect those 2 so I can understand why -- how that decline happened despite the good book-to-bill? Yes sure.
This is Dave.
Our book-to-bill in 2014 was 1.05 as you just mentioned.
With that said we did have a little over $1 billion in backlog adjustments which was in line with the adjustments we've had over a number of years historically.
And just to be clear backlog adjustments reflect several items including currency fluctuations under runs on completed cost type contracts and scope changes including scope reduction on contracts and finally contract terminations.
I hope that helps.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
And what I'm just trying to understand is you mentioned some of the areas that you're investing in and so -- to lead to top line growth but when you look at your guidance for next year you've got a lower revenue number.
And if we come in with a book-to-bill again like this and -- what I'm worried about is that you have a trajectory with backlog may continue to decline and I'm trying to understand when we should expect to see that growth in the top line.
Yes.
So Doug for next year we see sales essentially in line with 2014 flat to maybe down 2%.
As you look beyond the 2015 time frame we do expect to return to growth in '16 and beyond.
And importantly again we do see very strong bookings both domestically and internationally again in 2015 that we saw in '14.
And Doug just one last one there in 2016 we'll have ramped up on 2 major new Patriot programs Qatar and the other one that will be coming in this quarter and so that will generate significant revenue growth for 2016.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But what I'm trying to understand on that is that the international -- a lot of the international orders as you ramp down say on U.A.E you ramp up on Qatar and others how do you see that ebb and flow? Because you also have some coming down at the same time and it's quite difficult to track how each of these sort of adds and subtracts from your I guess top line.
So Doug let me try to add something here.
So you'll recall there was a fairly significant reduction in the DoD budget as we entered into the period of sequestration.
That impacted the entire industry and Raytheon was not immune from that reduction.
So what happened a few years back is now making its way through the backlog and through the sales line.
That's partially offset over the last few years by the strength of our international bookings and our international growth.
So as we look forward what happened from 2012 to '13 is now in the rearview mirror from an overall financial performance standpoint.
And again we do expect to return to growth beyond '15.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So does this mean that your expectations for your U.S.
defense revenues you're expecting that to stabilize which would make the international contributions more positive and allow you to grow? Is that fair? Yes Doug.
I think you hit the nail right on the head.
The bottom line is is that the defense budget even with the BCA restrictions in caps does start to increase in 2016 and beyond.
And so our domestic business will start to trend up at that point but at the same time we have a very very strong backlog on the international which we'll also be driving forward in terms of revenue.
So we think we see 2016 as a year that we start ticking up.
Your next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave can you talk a little bit about the cash flow? If I just look year-over-year you talked about a $900 million less contribution for pension but you don't see operating cash flow go up anywhere near that.
So can you just talk about some of the moving pieces as to -- cash taxes and others as to why you're not seeing as big of an increase without the pension contribution? So Sam I was literally 100% certain you were going to ask me that question.
So let me try to summarize it for you.
In 2014 we had 2 items that impacted cash flow at the end of the year.
We had the discretionary pension contribution of $400 million on a net basis and we also saw some year-end collections in Q4 that we had expected in the first quarter of 2015 that's between roughly $100 million and $150 million.
So when you normalize for these 2 items 2014 we did achieve the high end of our guidance at roughly $2 350 000 000.
And for 2015 adjusting for the earlier collections the range would be $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion.
So if you look at this year-over-year on a normalized basis 2015 is roughly $300 million to $400 million higher than '14 at the high end of the range.
So I hope that clarifies it for you.
I tried to give you some numbers as I was walking through this.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then can you give an update just on the GPS OCX program just because there was a lot of press about overruns there? I'm trying to just square that as to is that any impact in why IIS margins even without the Blackbird are still showing a decline next year or in '15? Let me attack that one.
On the GPS OCX program there were some issues we have worked with the Air Force on those.
It is a very complex program technology advanced.
Number one it is a cost-plus program development program and it is revolutionary relative to adding information insurance capability to a very large ground station for the GPS system.
And we have been working with the Air Force on that program we believe that we have turned the corner on that program moving forward and we don't see any impact in this year or in the out years relative to that program.
Your next question will come from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Nice to -- good luck Toby.
Thanks Howard.
Research Division</strong> But first is if we look across the board although you set us up Dave a little bit for lower margins and discussed mix it still seems as if there's a change in the trajectory of the business.
And is this as much a setup for what you said is well we beat our margins from our initial guidance? Or in fact is there a business change? No.
So Howard I appreciate you asking that question.
So let me start out by saying at the end of last year when Tom and I participated at the Crédit Suisse conference we did talk about adjusted margins in 2015 being in sort of the lower 12% range.
So again we're projecting 12.1% to 12.3%.
Now there's a number of areas that are important to mention here.
Firstly there is the program mix particularly at IDS.
And we talked about the cadence of the longer duration production programs coming down in '15 as we start out on the new programs that we were recently awarded and fully expect to be awarded in the first quarter and throughout the year.
Secondly and maybe more importantly we are increasing our spend in IRAD and program investments.
Last -- we closed out the year last year with IRAD at just a little over 2% of sales.
And as we look at 2015 we expect it to be closer to 3% of sales and that is -- those are important technology investments that Tom addressed earlier that position us well for both the top line and the bottom line growth.
And then lastly we mentioned this a little earlier as well IIS the acquisition of Blackbird Technologies from an IIS standpoint there's about 60 basis points of impact from the amortization of acquisition cost through intangibles.
And at the company level that's about 15 to 20 basis points.
Now what I just went through there is an offset there.
There continues to be higher productivity as a result of the focused efforts throughout the company.
But when you stand back and look at this 2015 is a very strong year and positions us well for 2016 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm going to switch for a moment.
And Tom I know you've been talking about a large $2 billion order for some time and it's always hard to pin down a date.
Could you elaborate a little bit on what gives you increased confidence that we'll see it in this first quarter? Yes.
So last year we had 2 big international awards that we were working to bring in.
One of them we did which was Qatar for about $2.4 billion that came in December.
This other one did slip into the first quarter and we are very close to closing on that deal.
Based on the customer schedule this one will close in this quarter I'm highly confident of that.
And that's about a $2 billion Patriot order.
What's significant here Howard is both the Qatar and this order will be going on at the same time.
So it's definitely going to give us an economic order quantity capability in terms of being able to get the best material buys for those programs.
And also we'll definitely be turning the factory 3 shifts on those 2 programs over here for the next 3 to 4 years.
So they are very important and are back-to-back which is good for us.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave we can't let you go without a question about pension.
Yes we had a feeling that was coming as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought really when you mentioned the discount rate had changed but also I was wondering if you could comment on how your rate of return ended up for 2014 relative to what you told us in Q3.
And also what's prompted you in this 3 months' period to change your assumed rate of return.
Sure yes.
We ended the year with a little over 6% actual return on our pension assets in '14.
And looking ahead every year we evaluate our long-term return on asset assumptions.
So in the fourth quarter of '14 we did reduce our long-term target allocation for equities and increased our target allocation for fixed income and that's principally in order to reduce our overall exposure to equity volatility going forward.
The change in asset allocation resulted in a reduction of our long-term ROA assumption of about 75 basis points and that's basically in a nutshell how we see things going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up on the guidance.
I notice you've increased your interest expense expectations.
Can you give us an idea of what's behind that ? I mean are you anticipating taking on more debt? Or is your cost of debt going higher? Well you'll recall that we issued $600 million of debt in Q4.
$300 million in 10s and $300 million in 30s.
Average cost was around 4% and that's what you're seeing impact interest expense in 2015.
It's all fixed rate that's an important thing to note.
It's all fixed rate.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you're not anticipating any additional debt movement beyond what's the announcement? Well look we're always looking at our capital structure to optimize the financial foundation of the company.
Standing back we still have a very strong A- rating.
We've talked about this in the past.
We don't see ourselves going lower than BBB+.
I think I mentioned that exactly on the third quarter call.
So we could in the future but I'm not signaling anything.
We have a very strong balance sheet and there is room to use the balance sheet from a shareholder perspective and from other perspectives.
It's just a very solid foundation.
Your next question will come from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
A question Dave.
The margins were down in '14 you're projecting them down in '15 again and then maybe a little bit better in '16.
I mean how do you look at what normalized margin should be? I mean obviously the investments you're making are somewhat discretionary.
So I just kind of see if you have a -- what your answer to that might be.
Yes.
Thanks George.
So let me start by saying our objective is to improve and grow earnings through both top line and margin improvement.
So the company's focused on program execution on cost reduction and importantly margin performance and we've talked about this before.
If you look at the company changes in mix the timing of program completions and program starts all impact margin.
In 2015 and I mentioned this earlier we're making important technology investments that drive future growth in margin expansion.
After 2015 we do see opportunity for margins to increase on an adjusted basis not from only a FAS/CAS basis.
And it's driven by a number of different initiatives in addition to the overall business mix improving over time.
Tom and I both talked about strategic sourcing facility optimization expanding what we call our Global Business Services which is our shared service initiative internally.
So when you look at all this together I think you framed it correctly.
We do see growing margins in 2016 and beyond.
But at this point we're not going to suggest a target margin profile for the company.
Okay.
And one different one Dave.
I don't want to disappoint you because you figured I'd probably ask this as well.
How much was international sales up versus domestic down? International sales in 2014 were up about 1.5% and domestic was down about 5.5%.
And how about Q4? In Q4 I'm glad you asked that George.
International was up by about 6% and domestic was up over 4%.
Your next question will come from the line of Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I appreciate all the commentary on margins.
I'm going to go there again particularly sort of at IDS.
You obviously gave great color on sort of the ramping work in Patriot and all that but is there something maybe going on? We've obviously always held the belief that international is much more profitable than domestic which of course it still is and will be going forward.
But is there anything that you're seeing structurally particularly maybe in the FMS arena that's causing some degree of pressure on the international margin side maybe it's the bidding environment getting a little more aggressive? Is it -- should we think of that sort of traditional gap between international and domestic holding as we look out over the next couple of years? Or might we see some compression on some of the international margin side? Yes.
So Hunter I think it's probably best to let Toby O'Brien handle that question since he just spent 5 or 6 years at the business.
So Toby go ahead.
Sure Dave.
And Hunter Dave hit some of this in his comments and I'll just try to add a little bit of color to that.
I do have a good handle on the business having been there for about 6 years as Dave said and know what drives it.
From a big picture point of view I can tell you it remains a very solid business.
There are many things that can impact margins but really the story with IDS margins in 2015 is driven by mix program mix and timing.
And I think the thing to understand is that we've seen this before a few years ago where IDS margins did fluctuate year-over-year and then they did come back okay? And at that point in time it was the same thing it was a combination of the mix and the timing related to the program completions and program startups the same things that are impacting us here in 2015.
So this is not a new phenomenon.
We don't see any other pressures on the business related to your other question.
And to reinforce what Dave said we would expect to see the margin profile at IDS to improve after 2015 as the mix improves.
And these awards that we've talked about Qatar and the other one that we expect here in the first quarter that Tom talked about as they move through their production cycle.
LLC</strong> And another one on -- maybe this is sort of a backdoor M&amp;A question but you talked obviously about even a sequestration comes back into play you're going to see a higher baseline budget going forward.
But obviously the investment accounts are going to be under a little bit more pressure.
Do you guys see yourselves trying to move into sort of getting a bigger chunk of say the O&amp;M budget to generally [ph] sort of try to offset a little bit of incremental revenue headwinds that you might see in some procurement in R&amp;D accounts? Well I think bottom line is in fiscal year '16 even with the BCA caps the domestic base budget does go up.
And we also if you look at the F '15 fi-ed [ph] up you'll see that the Administration has come in about $35 billion over what the BCA caps are for fiscal year '16.
So in either case there will be a larger base budget.
And as part of that base budget the modernization is also going up.
And so we believe that the domestic we will have some uptick business.
We're also seeing -- and that's why we're making some investments this year with the evolving threat out there there's some opportunities for some -- inserting some new technology in -- starting in '16 and '17.
And so that's another area why we're moving forward on that.
On the LISC the LISC is a great win for us.
It's a joint venture that we have with General Dynamics and that does give us insight into the ranges across an entire Air Force.
So it's a great program for us there just on the base program itself but giving us insight into what technologies we can bring to bear to the Air Force to help them as they move forward to get to a more affordable solution for all of the ranges.
And then the other major area we have is the Warfighter FOCUS Program in terms of training.
And we're working with our customers to ensure they have the appropriate training moving forward to be more efficient and from an affordability perspective.
Your next question will come from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you quantify either in dollar terms or as a percentage of revenue the investments that you said that you're making here again in cyber direct energy electronic warfare advanced propulsion? Kind of on a year-over-year basis how much is growth that we're seeing in the spend here in 2015 and what's the spend trajectory look like for the next couple of years? Yes.
So specifically on the internal R&amp;D I noted it before with an earlier question but I didn't give out the specific dollars.
Let me start out again by saying in 2014 that ran a little over 2% of sales and in 2015 will be close to 3% of sales.
That translates into roughly speaking about $500 million of direct R&amp;D spend in 2014 up to between $600 million and $650 million in R&amp;D spend in 2015.
Now importantly that's only one element of our overall R&amp;D focus.
Every year we book and bill essentially between $1 billion and $1.5 billion of customer funded R&amp;D.
And this is another important element of our overall focus on technologies.
And lastly there are occasions where we win large programs particularly international where part of the program win is development activity for technologies that we can leverage on the other programs in the future.
So I hope that helps and clarifies the way we're thinking about the company in '15 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> No that is helpful.
But as you look out to '16 and '17 and beyond are we moving our internal R&amp;D from 2% of sales to 3% in perpetuity? Or is 2015 a special year and we go back to 2% in the future? No I'm actually glad you asked that.
We're thinking about internal R&amp;D in the upper 2% range for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the yet to be named Patriot customer can you talk about what region in the world that might be coming from? Well the world is a pretty big place.
So let's put it this way.
There's 3 regions where we have significant demand for Patriot.
And one is Eastern Europe another one is the MENA region and the other one is Asia-Pacific.
And it's in one of those regions.
So I can't get into a direct -- but all I can tell you is I do have a team in country.
We are -- we essentially completed all of our activities and now the customer is now going through some of their final arrangements and we look pretty strong here for a Q1 award.
And again it is important because if you take that on top of the $2.4 billion Qatar that's within a very short period of time $4.4 billion of pure Patriot manufacturing where we have significant control over how you say efficiencies and in driving our material cost down to ensure we provide I’d say pretty good margins on those programs.
Research Division</strong> And can you remind us the installed base on Patriot is 11 or 12 countries at this point how many of them still need to have an upgrade? So we have about -- the new addition of Qatar we have 13 countries that have Patriot that's with the addition of Qatar.
And out of those we have probably another 7 -- actually it's 8 another 8 will have opportunities for the Configuration-3 upgrade.
We have the upgrade we've done in Taiwan we have done the upgrade in UAE.
We're doing -- we'll be doing the upgrade in Korea moving forward and also Qatar we'll have that upgrade in it.
And we've also been doing an upgrade in Saudi on Configuration-3 plus.
And then Kuwait if you remember at the beginning of this year to the beginning of 2014 the first quarter we got an order for Kuwait for a Configuration-3 plus.
So the bottom line is significant opportunity within the consortium of Patriot users and again we're up to 13 countries.
And with the Polish competition if that goes in the right direction that will give us another country and allow us to have 14 participants in the Patriot consortium worldwide.
Taheesha we have time for one more question.
Your last question will come from the line of Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about from a couple of perspectives.
One can you tell us how much Blackbird is going to contribute to revenue in 2015? And then part 2 just on the cash flow outlook it really looks like at a reasonable level of share repurchases it really looks like your dry powder is going to build pretty meaningfully over the next couple of years.
So should we expect especially now that you've got maybe some better DoD budget visibility should we expect M&amp;A to accelerate kind of sharply over the next couple of years? Let me talk about Blackbird real quick here.
It is a great acquisition for us number one for its technology and also for its channels into both SOCOM and the Intel communities.
But in terms of this year it will give us about a 1% in terms of revenue contribution to the business.
Just one other element we -- it is a very excellent management team for Blackbird and also have a great workforce of I would call some very highly skilled technical folks.
So we're looking forward to the synergies that we'll be able to achieve via that acquisition.
So Pete again Toby O'Brien the soon to be official CFO it's probably best for him to talk about his thoughts on capital deployment going forward.
So Toby why don't you handle that? Sure Dave.
So Pete as Todd mentioned I won't officially be in the CFO seat here until early March but capital deployment is something I've spent some time on and given some thought.
And Tom and Dave have described our priorities for capital deployment for a while and they've been pretty consistent.
And I do believe that our approach has and will continue to serve us and our shareholders well.
So bottom line at this point I don't foresee the need for any meaningful changes to our current approach or priorities.
That said we will continue with an active share repurchase program.
We will continue to recommend annual dividend increases to our Board.
And given the funded status of the pension plans and where we are now forecasting markets over the next 3 years we are not currently seeing any need for further discretionary pension contributions.
And lastly as you know our global growth objective it's very key to us and will continue to be a priority.
And acquisitions that create shareholder value meaning that they have to make sense economically they have to fill a gap from a product technology or market channel standpoint.
They will become a focus more than they have in prior years and Tom just described Black Border -- Blackbird -- excuse me and that's a good example of an acquisition that met that criteria.
All right great.
Well thank you.
We'll have to leave it there.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter conference call in April.
Taheesha? Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Chantilly.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning on our first quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we’ll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning’s call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Toby O’Brien our Chief Financial Officer.
We’ll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Toby and then we’ll move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I’d like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company’s future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get started I’d like to welcome Toby O’Brien to his first earnings conference call as CFO a role which he officially assumed on March 2<sup>nd</sup>.
Toby will walk you through additional details regarding our first quarter financial results in just a moment.
I’m pleased to report that the company delivered solid operating results in the quarter with sales EPS and cash flow that were all either in line or ahead of our expectations.
Our international business continues to grow in the quarter and represent a 28% of total revenue.
International also represented 34% of our total bookings in the quarter.
And our international backlog was 41% of total backlog at quarter’s end.
This backlog percentage will go higher with the $2 billion international Patriot award we announced last week which was from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
I will note that we continue to see strong demand signals beyond our recent bookings activity for our solutions from our global customers.
In the quarter and the weeks immediately following you will see important parts of our global growth strategy play out.
We’ve announced significant recent bookings across our portfolio particularly in the international Patriot that position the company for future growth.
And we announced the strategic investment and partnership to harness rapid growth in the global cybersecurity market.
Overall we’ve made a considerable progress on these weak [ph] fronts and continue to move forward with our growth strategy.
During the quarter we always raised our dividend by 10.7% the 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive annual increase and will remain on track to reduce our shares outstanding for the year.
This reflects our long term trend of returning cash to shareholders something we will continue to do in line with our balanced capital deployment strategy.
We’ve come out of the gate strong after the close of the first quarter with approximately $3 billion in bookings within the initial weeks of the second quarter including the $2 billion Patriot booking from Saudi Arabia and a $507 million booking to upgrade the evolved Sea Sparrow Missile a premier ship defense missile for the U.S.
Navy and international customers.
I’d like to take a moment to talk about our Patriot Integrated Air and Missile Defense franchise.
Over the past 15 months we have received nearly $7 billion in bookings for Patriot production and support services from a range of customers.
This includes the recent Saudi $2 billion award as well as the Kuwait Qatar South Korea and the U.S.
Army.
This provides the company with years of production work and backlog and predictability to the manufacturing outlook and the opportunity to achieve higher production efficiencies.
Looking forward we continue to see significant opportunities for Patriot.
Earlier this week we were notified that the Patriot was selected by Poland for their medium range Integrated Air and Missile Defense system.
We’ll be working with our Polish customer on the final offering and anticipate receiving a booking in 2016.
Additionally we’re in the final down select process in Germany.
If selected we anticipate that this will also translate into a booking opportunity in 2016.
Patriot continues to evolve ensuring that it will be capable of meeting next generation threats.
Over the next few years you’ll see us in collaboration with our current and future customers and new capabilities including a 360-degree AESA radar capability and other enhancements.
These capabilities will position Patriot to be the leading Integrated Air and Missile Defense solution for the next several decades.
But as you know Raytheon is much more than just Patriot.
And to that point we’ve seen considerable recent order activity domestically and internationally across a wide range of our systems and products particularly in our missiles business.
Demand for missiles is being driven by the evolving threats as well as our incorporation of technological advances into our products.
One example of this is AMRAAM where we received a $539 million award in the first quarter for the latest version of the missile.
We received a similar size award in December of last year.
So within the past six months alone we have received more than $1 billion in orders for AMRAAM.
We continue to make important progress on many other key programs that will drive future growth.
For example on Small Diameter Bomb II a premier precision weapon for both current and next generation platforms we completed systems verification review in early April.
This sets the stage for Milestone C which will be complete the development phase allowing the program to move into low rates initial production.
Our Next Generation Jammer program remains a significant part of our electronic warfare initiative.
The program continues to execute on or ahead of schedule and cost and also completed key testing milestones in the quarter.
Turning to a broader market perspective domestically I’m encouraged by recent developments on the fiscal year ‘16 defense budget process that both the administration and Congress have presented initial budget proposals that could exceed previously established budget caps.
Many of our leaders agree that the cap levels are not sufficient to contend with today’s dynamic threat environment and are therefore seeking ways to add more resources.
Well we won’t speculate on what the final funding level for DoD will be in 2016.
Even if the budget control caps are not raised at all the DoD base budget funding will be several billion dollars higher in 2016 than 2015.
Bottom line is the trajectory of the DoD base budget is finally starting to trend upward.
Late in the first quarter we announced the settlement with the U.K.
Home Office relating to Raytheon Systems Limited eBorders contract.
Under the settlement we received a cash payment equal to approximately $226 million in exchange for the resolution of all claims and counter claims of both parties.
Toby will walk you through the details in his remarks.
As we announced earlier this week consistent with our strategy to position Raytheon for global growth we are now entering into a partnership with Vista Equity Partners combining their premier commercial cybersecurity business Websense with Raytheon’s cyber products to form a new company.
This new company will provide a broad set of integrated defense grade cybersecurity products and services to the global marketplace.
We are very excited about this opportunity.
We see significant revenue synergies and look forward to closing sometime late in the second quarter.
In conclusion I’m pleased with our performance in the first quarter the progress in setting the foundation for future global growth.
And I’d like to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication for this great start to the year.
With that let me turn it over to Toby.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the first quarter highlights and then we’ll move on to questions.
During my remarks I’ll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
If everyone would turn to Page 3.
We are pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the first quarter.
All app [ph] are better than our expectations.
It’s a good start to the year and we’re positioned well for achieving our full-year outlook.
Our EPS from continuing operations was $1.78.
And on an adjusted basis EPS was $1.26.
I’ll discuss this in more detail in just a moment.
Operating margin was solid at 15.9% and included the previously announced eBorders settlement with the U.K.
Home Office.
And on an adjusted basis our operating margin was 11.5%.
Sales of $5.3 billion were slightly higher than our guidance.
During the quarter the company bought back 2.8 million shares of common stock under the share repurchase program for $300 million.
And we announced last month that we increased our dividend by 10.7%.
We have now raised our annual dividend every year for the past 11 years.
I also want to point out that we’re raising the guidance that we’ve provided in January to include the eBorders settlement.
I’ll discuss guidance further in just a few minutes.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me start by providing some detail on our first quarter results.
Company bookings for the first quarter were $4.5 billion.
International awards represented 34% of the total.
And on a trailing four-quarter basis the book-to-bill ratio is 1.07.
A couple of key bookings in the first quarter included a $769 million award for Patriot from the Republic of Korea and a $539 million award for AMRAAM for the U.S.
Air Force U.S.
Navy and international customers.
And as Todd mentioned a few minutes ago just after the end of the first quarter we received significant orders from both domestic and international customers.
We’re off to a strong start in the second quarter and the year-to-date bookings will help drive our second half performance.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter was $32.5 billion and on a funded basis was $23.7 billion an increase of almost $1 billion compared to the first quarter of 2014.
It’s worth noting that we ended the first quarter of 2015 with approximately 41% of our backlog now comprised of international programs.
If you’d now move to Page 5.
As I just mentioned for the first quarter of 2015 sales were slightly higher than the guidance we set in January.
As a reminder the first quarter of 2015 had one less work day than the first quarter of 2014 and this equates to about $100 million in sales overall.
As we said in January we expected the first quarter to be the most challenging.
We still expect sales to ramp up throughout the year.
Looking now at sales by business.
IDS at first quarter of 2015 net sales of $1.4 billion.
The change from Q1 2014 was primarily due to the plan completion of certain production phases on international Patriot programs.
We expect IDS sales to increase as we move through the year as the recently awarded Patriot international programs begin to ramp up.
In the first quarter of 2015 IIS had net sales of $1.4 billion.
Compared with the same quarter last year the change is primarily due to our training programs.
Missile systems at first quarter of 2015 net sales of $1.5 billion.
The change from the first quarter of 2014 was primarily due to both the Tomahawk and SM-3 programs.
And SAS had net sales of $1.4 billion.
Secure communication systems programs contributed to the change versus last year.
Moving ahead to Page 6 we were pleased by our overall company margins.
Our operating margin was 15.9% and on an adjusted basis was 11.5%.
As a reminder our first quarter of 2015 adjusted margin excludes both the favorable FAS/CAS adjustment which was worth 90 basis points or $0.10 per share and 340 basis points or $0.42 per share for the eBorders settlement.
And as we discussed on the last earnings call in January compared to 2014 we expect our margins for 2015 will be impacted by a change in program mix as well as higher R&amp;D [ph] and program investments.
We continue to invest in ourselves with the objective of positioning the company for future growth.
So looking at the business margins the change in margin at IDS was primarily driven by a change in program mix on international Patriot programs nearing completion.
IES margin in the first quarter 2015 benefited from the eBorders settlement that I previously discussed which contributed $181 million to operating income.
Without the settlement IES margins would be 7.5% or in line with our expectations.
Missiles margin was up in the quarter compared to the same period last year.
This year’s first quarter benefited from a $25 million or approximately 170 basis point favorable resolution of a contractual issue which was previously expected later in the year.
And SAS margin of 12.7% was down compared to the same period last year primarily driven by higher net program efficiencies in the first quarter of 2014.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
Turning now to Page 7.
First quarter 2015 EPS was $1.78 and on an adjusted basis was $1.26.
EPS for the first quarter of 2015 was better than expected primarily due to the eBorders settlement and from timing at Missiles.
On Page 8 we are updating the company’s financial outlook for 2015 which now includes the impact of the eBorders settlement.
As Tom mentioned earlier in the week we announced the Websense transaction.
We expect this transaction to close late in the second quarter and we will update our financial guidance subsequent to the closing.
We still expect our full-year 2015 net sales to be in the range of between $22.3 billion and $22.8 billion.
We have raised our full-year 2015 EPS which is now expected to be in a range of between $6.67 and $6.82.
We expect adjusted EPS to be within a range of between $5.49 and $5.64 which is unchanged from our prior guidance.
As a reminder we have not included the possible extension of the R&amp;D tax credit in our 2015 guidance.
If the legislation passes it would favorably impact the effective tax rate by about 110 basis points and our EPS by about $0.10.
As I mentioned earlier we re-purchased 2.8 million shares of common stock for $300 million in the quarter and continue to see our diluted share count in the range of between 305 million and 307 million shares for 2015 a 2% reduction at the midpoint of the range.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was in line with our prior guidance.
As a result of the eBorders settlement we now see our 2015 guidance for operating cash flow to be between $2.4 billion and $2.7 billion.
We received the settlement payment in the second quarter.
And as you can see on Page 9 we’ve included guidance by business which is unchanged from our prior outlook except for IIS and total company margin which now include the eBorders settlement.
On Page 10 we provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales EPS and operating cash flow for the balance of 2015.
As we discussed on the call in January sales are expected to ramp up throughout the year.
In the first half of 2015 we still expect sales to be down on a percentage basis.
Sales in the back half of the year are expected to be in line to slightly up versus 2014.
And if you compare second half sales to first half sales we expect to see mid single-digit growth.
As you may recall our 2014 bookings finished strong particularly with respect to international.
This taken together with the combined first quarter and early second quarter 2015 bookings are all key drivers of our second half sales expectations.
And as we discussed on the January call our effective tax rate in the second quarter is expected to be impacted by a favorable non-cash tax settlement of $88 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
Before concluding I’d like to spend a minute to talk about our capital deployment strategy.
We expect to continue to generate strong free cash flow and maintain a strong balance sheet going forward.
We will remain focused on deploying capital to create value for our shareholders including internal investments to support our growth plans as well as share buybacks and dividend increases that are subject to board approval.
And as we sit here today possibly smaller targeted acquisitions that fit our technology and global growth needs.
In summary we saw a good performance in the first quarter.
We continue to execute well.
Our bookings were ahead of last year’s first quarter and sales EPS and operating cash flow from operations were all in line or higher than the guidance we set in January.
We remain well positioned with our domestic customers’ priority areas and continue to be aligned with the evolving priorities of our international customers.
Our objective is to drive the business to maximize value for our customers and shareholders.
With that Tom and I will now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you.
Good morning Howard.
Toby just as an observation first I was thinking with this 20% margin now that Dave is not here to respond to it thinking about maybe - if you know where I’m going - setting that as his incentive target goals for the balance of the year.
That’s good input Howard.
We’ll definitely take that into consideration.
But in all seriousness I asked sort of as a collection of businesses that have some interesting opportunities.
And when we looked at the growth profile it seems to be challenged relative to the overall environment.
Can you explain and elaborate a little bit upon not only what Websense is going to do but where your initiatives are there to enhance that business? Yes hey Howard this is Tom.
Let me take that.
Number one one of the strategies that IAS is actually executing very well is to expand its cyber capabilities in core competencies into both the international and now the commercial market space.
And as we discussed on prior calls we have had some significant wins on the international marketplace.
And so we’re showing that we’re globally competitive in the cyber arena.
And so we’re seeing expansion in that area.
We’re also seeing them expand in their training worldwide.
And some of it is under the Warfighter FOCUS program.
But we’re also expanding into other areas of training into international markets.
We’re direct with international governments.
So that’s another big area that they’re moving out on.
The other play is essentially upgrading a lot of the systems that are out there in terms of adding in information assurance capability taking the knowledge that they’ve gained from the GPS OCX program and leveraging that into other programs.
And then the last one is - hopefully you’ve been watching and noticing that they’ve been winning quite a few programs out there.
And for example they won the LISC program.
They’ve also just recently won the NISSC program.
So they’ve been winning more than their fair shares of programs.
And we’re very I would say upbeat relative to IAS in their ability to continue to grow and exceed the industry in their area in terms of growth.
And then just one other follow-up question in a slightly different area.
You’ve also expanded missile systems beyond just Patriot.
And for a moment could you just address how the NASAMS offerings are? I think you still have some opportunities there in Poland and elsewhere.
Yes it’s a great question.
And a lot of people - the NASAM system or sometimes called SL-AMRAAM gets overshadowed by the Patriot.
But our last big win on the NASAMS was in Oman.
That was back in 2013.
And that was about $1.3 billion for the system itself and then there was another $300 million worth of AMRAAM activities [indiscernible] FMS contract for a total deal of $1.6 billion.
That system is deployed now or being deployed in six countries.
I’ll tell you it’s a very great system.
And the other area that we are pursuing right now and we should learn in 2017 is a pursuit in Poland.
This is a - we already got selected for the Patriot system for their I would call their medium integrated air and missile system.
This is the lower tier missile defense system below Patriot.
And we’re in a competition for that.
Again 2017 they’re going to make their selection.
Thank you very much for your time.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Please proceed.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Hey Rob.
Good morning.
Tom first one you mentioned OCD the Poland decision but also that Germany is moving towards the DAMs.
So like do you think this is a sign that European defense spending might finally be stabilizing? And do you see other opportunities in the region? Number one we do see other opportunities in the region.
It is being driven by the geopolitics that are going on right now especially in the Eastern Europe.
Poland is building up their defenses and making a major play in that area again under the auspices of a strong defense is a strong deterrence.
And we’re also seeing that in other Eastern European countries also.
Germany is in need to upgrade their systems.
So I think you’re right.
There is a little bit of maybe sense of urgency.
But this was in their plan to do this upgrade for several years.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up on Websense.
I don’t think you mentioned it on the call the other day.
When do you expect it to actually be accretive on a GAAP EPS basis? I’ll turn that over to Toby.
Yes.
So on a GAAP basis Rob we’re probably looking about three to four years down the road before it would be accretive.
And that’s due really to the amortization of two non-cash items.
One would be the intangibles associated with the transaction.
Then also we’d be amortizing some deferred revenue.
They have a subscription model where the revenues are recognized ratably over the life of the contract.
But the payments are all upfront.
And we’re going to fair value that.
And that amortization tells a lot a bit shorter that’s about a two to three years.
Whereas the intangibles will go out over seven years.
That said we do think the best way to look at this business is more akin to a cash basis.
And adjusting the results for the impacts of these two items the deferred revenue and the amortization of the intangibles.
And on that basis it would be immediately accretive to earnings.
Okay.
Thanks Toby.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So the competition claims that Germany wants to have 360-degree capability.
In open architecture neither of which Patriot provides.
And yet you guys are the incumbent.
Tell us about the factors you think are going to be important to Germany’s decision and when they might reach it.
Well I don’t know exactly how they’re going to make their decision.
I do know that they will be making the decision in the next year.
And what they are looking for is they need a strong system to provide deterrence.
And so we believe Patriot provides that number one.
And two is we believe the system that we can get in their hands the soonest.
In other words we’re in production.
We can deliver right out of the factory and [indiscernible] the quickest time possible.
The other element is the fact that they have a lot of their already trained on using the Patriot.
And so even though we’ve upgraded the Patriot put in modern man stations a lot of the maintenance and training is already behind them.
So they already have that in place.
So we think the Patriot provides the most economical but yet strongest deterrence capability for them moving forward.
Okay terrific.
And then your R&amp;D was up from 2% of sales to 2.7% of sales.
Could you tell us where did you spend it what did you spend it on and how much of that is covered by IR&amp;D? Okay.
So that is all IR&amp;D number one I’ll answer that.
But we’re continuing to invest in technologies.
That’s been crucial to our recent competitive success.
I’ll give you an example.
On the GaN technology we started investing in 10 years ago when folks thought you couldn’t make GaN work.
And we continued to invest in over the years and essentially we proved them wrong that it can work and it can provide a great capability.
And that put us in a great position on multiple wins AMDR Next Generation Jammer 3DELRR.
And there’s actually a few radar competitions coming out now.
So we do invest to essentially establish discriminators for us to go win in the future.
And that’s where we’re putting our efforts moving forward.
And areas - and this is actually part of our strategy is to invest in what we call new emerging areas.
So we are investing in next generation radars high energy lasers hypersonics.
In fact we just recently won a major hypersonics contract from DARPA.
It’s called the Tactical Boost Glide program.
That was for the development and demonstration of technologies to enable air-launched tactical range hypersonic boost glide systems.
And so we’ve been investing in that area.
And that gave us the technologies to go win this advanced DARPA program.
We also were investing in undersea capabilities.
We believe the undersea offers a lot of significant opportunities moving forward based on the arena of anti-access/area denial.
EW that’s part of our strategy to continue to invest in EW and grow our business in that area.
That’s kind of a few of the areas that we’re investing in.
We believe we have already or establishing discriminators in each of those areas and based on where the roadmap is for our customers.
We believe that these are right places for us to invest in.
Yes.
And Cai this is Toby.
I would just add to the level of spend of the 2.7%.
That’s pretty much in line with what we talked about in the January call of 2.7% 2.8% of revenue this year for the reasons Tom just described.
Great.
Thank you and congrats on the Patriot wins.
Well thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Yes.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Carter.
How are you doing today? Doing great.
Great thanks Tom.
So just a question.
I wondered if you might expand a little bit more specifically on GaN and some of the prior comments about upgrades.
And really when you look at the approval of the exportability of that technology can you talk to specifically what sort of upgrade opportunities that may enable and what sort of kind of size we should be thinking about those or timing? What does that mean for that franchise longer term? Well I’ll start with the AMDR.
We are working with the navy to ensure that the AMDR will be exportable to our coalition partners who use those types of radars for their ships.
We are also - the 3DELRR program was a model program for OSD for exportability.
And so we won that program.
It is in protest right now but that program uses GaN.
So that’s number two.
We are also and I mentioned in my script that we are working on a 360 AESA radar for the Patriot.
And that is a GaN based radar.
And we are working to ensure that that is exportable also.
So in terms of who would buy these systems with Poland coming onboard there are now 14 countries that have the Patriot system.
And you said if you had to go off and you wanted to have an opportunity to replace those radars the existing radars on those it would be 200-plus radars.
And that would be up for grabs to replace to more with these 360 AESA radars our AESAs for Patriot.
And this is I think a great opportunity for us taking forth these new advanced radar systems to both our domestic and international customers.
But we see significant opportunities in the future for taking this GaN technology into the radars and into the international marketplace.
How do you think about the timeline and the timing of those kinds of opportunities as you look across the base of Patriot customers? And when they get around to that kind of upgrade is this a three- to five-year kind of opportunity for the market the 200 radars? How do you think about that? I’ll only answer one.
On the Patriot we have customers knocking on our door today.
So it’s a matter of getting to a development and then transition to production and then putting it forward.
And we’re also working with our U.S.
customer on that timing to ensure that we have essentially all the licenses and everything else to be able to do that.
So I think bottom line there is pent up demand for those AESA radars.
And we’re looking to fill that demand.
And just another one to switch gears quickly I think at one point we were expecting a recompete of Warfighter FOCUS.
Where does that stand these days in terms of an RFP on that and maybe just remind us of what to expect on that front? Well right now for those who don’t know the Warfighter FOCUS is an IDIQ program that Raytheon runs for the United States Army.
That is a program that we are actively engaging today.
It’s running very well.
And I think it’s serving the army and also the international customers very well.
So I think they’re very pleased with it.
We believe that that program will continue.
The army is looking at some acquisition changes in terms of what’s the follow-on to Warfighter FOCUS.
That has gone through several changes recently.
And I don’t think right now has settled down in terms of what the final arrangements will be.
Okay so just stay tuned.
I think stay tuned and - but in - and from Raytheon’s perspective it’s met more stable work relative to Warfighter FOCUS since that change has not occurred.
Great.
Congrats on a big leap guys.
Yes thank you.
Thanks Carter.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Hi guys.
Couple of questions two different topics.
The first is on the - Toby on your sales guidance which is essentially down 2% to flat at the ends - the range there what are the relative growth rates you now see for domestic versus international within that? Yes so for the total year what we’d be looking at for domestic is to be down in the low single-digits.
And for international up in the low to mid single-digits.
Okay.
And it sounds like the international again may be a little backend weighted given the recent awards.
Yes definitely -- Or the growth accelerates? Yes you got that exactly right.
I mean I think if you want to think about the cadence throughout the year and obviously with international growing versus domestic declining we’d see second quarter sales flat to up from Q1 from a sequential point of view and then sequentially growth in the back half of the year.
And it’s exactly as you said Rob.
It’s driven by the new awards from the end of 2014 plus what we’re seeing here in the first three-plus months of this year and their natural ramp as they start up.
Okay.
And then just with respect to the comment on European demands stabilizing and growing here is there any currency impact on margins that we should start to contemplate? So that question came up on a prior call.
I’ll give you what we’re seeing.
Number one is most of our business is tied to the U.S.
dollar.
For example all the FMS contracts we had the Foreign Military Sales contracts are all in U.S.
dollars.
And then a lot of our customers especially in the Middle East their currency is pegged to the U.S.
dollar.
So even on direct commercial sales there we don’t have any impact.
And we do have two landed companies.
We have Raytheon Australia and Raytheon Systems Limited.
They tend to work with their own working capital and essentially our sales in British pound sterling and then the Raytheon Australia it’s the Australian dollar.
They tend to work -- I was going to say I understand that it’s conducted in U.S.
dollars but to the extent that these guys are based for example in euros the European guys they’ve got to translate.
So does that maybe adjust their demand their pricing appetite? Toby is going to give you the exact numbers right.
Toby why don’t you just give them the numbers? Yes so I think from a - the two type of potential exposures we have is around where we - if we have a mismatch between U.S.
dollar and a different denominated currency.
As Tom said that’s very minimal because most of our contracts are matched to the dollar.
In the cases when we have that we hedge it using foreign exchange contracts.
And that’s the little to no - minimal exposure there.
And in the cases where we have these foreign entities like in the U.K.
and Australia where they do operate in a non-U.S.
dollar functional currency again they’re generally getting paid in that same currency.
So in Australia they operate in the Aussie dollar.
They get paid from their customer in the Aussie dollar.
And we do have some translation risk right when we convert those foreign denominated financial results back to U.S.
dollars.
But again historically that has been pretty minimal.
Okay thank you.
I’ll jump back in.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay of Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Thanks everybody.
I appreciate it.
A little bit more on IRAD a follow-up maybe to Cai’s question a little bit of a different angle though.
You guys said the long term IRAD should still be in the high 2% range of sales.
If global defense budgets continue to improve does that go higher or does it go lower? I mean my gut would say it will go lower but threats are very dynamic.
The competitive environment is still very difficult.
So I would think there’d be some level of sort of elevated investment on an ongoing basis that may be needed.
But assuming the backdrop of better defense spending on a global basis where should that long term IRAD go? Only to kind of back you up into - and tying this to our strategy so we go - often we look at our strategy we look at what the demand needs are from the customers and then we go look at what gas we have in terms of technology that’s required to go fulfill them over a period of a three-year window a five-year window and then a 10-year window.
And then based on that we look at what technologies need to be developed and then what we will look at in terms of funding those technologies and to be ready at the time that they need to be ready at for us to be competitive in the marketplace.
And it’s all driven by the strategy and by what we - the capability needs of the customer.
It’s not driven by sales and some exact percentage of sales.
That’s just how we do it.
Essentially it’s a bottoms-up buildup based on the demand cycle from the customer and also what our technology gaps are.
And I’d just throw in there and it plays exactly into what Tom was saying.
When we make these decisions on how to invest where and what level it’s all with an eye towards returning value to shareholders increasing value to shareholders driving growth profitable growth.
So it’s a little difficult to generalize looking forward whether that relationship that percentage would go up or down for all the previous reasons.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot for that.
And let’s talk about Next Gen Jammer for a minute if you would.
Can you help us understand how it’s going to kind of slew [ph] up over the long term and give us an idea how to think of some of the follow-on increments? What are some of the pacing items for those? What’s sort of the competitive set and maybe help us think about in a best case scenario the potential opportunity for you guys longer term? Thanks a lot.
Yes.
So our Next Generation Jammer for those who don’t know that’s a electronic warfare - essentially it’s a self-contained pod generates its own power.
That gets converted into electrical energy to drive jammers within the pod.
There’s two of those pods per Growler.
That’s the F-18G which is the electronic warfare platform for the United States Navy.
And so we won a major contract for that a couple years back.
And it actually uses a GaN technology.
So there is a technology that we had invested in 10 years ago that helped us win that program.
And we see that program having quite long legs.
Number one we’re going into the development phase now and then they’ll eventually get into transition to production and then enter production.
As I mentioned it’s on schedule.
It’s on cost and it’s hitting all of its milestones.
And we think that’s going to be a very successful franchise program for Raytheon in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
How are you doing? Okay.
Couple little questions.
First is why is cash flow from operations up only about $100 million when I thought the eBorders settlement was GBP150 million? Yes so the eBorders settlement you got the number right it’s about $226 million.
But the payment came in on the first day of the second quarter.
Right.
But I’m just saying for the full-year outlook you’re only increasing $100 million.
Yes not - yes sure Sam.
So fist I’ll start and as you said we increased the year by $100 million.
We’re also going up $100 million in the second quarter as part of that.
It is attributable to the eBorders settlement.
But it has been partially offset - this is getting at the crux of your question - by some changes in program milestone collections as a result of some later timing on awards within the year.
So the cash isn’t gone.
It’s just - it’s a timing issue for that $100 million if you will between 2015 and in ‘16.
We do have a range of $300 million in our outlook or our guidance there.
So our expectations are to be within this range.
Overall we continue to see strong operating cash flow in 2015.
The range now expected to be between $2.4 billion and $2.7 billion.
We do see still the majority of the cash flow being weighted in the second half of the year really driven by the timing of significant program milestones.
Okay.
That’s great.
And then can you talk a little bit about the IDS segment just looking at the margins this quarter and how do you get them to 50% this year? Are there other certain milestone of contractual resolutions or some of it is the direct foreign sale of the recent award what is it that drives that margin up? Yes sure.
So in Q1 as you pointed out right the margins were down.
That was as expected.
And consistent with what we said in January that was driven by the mix due to - unfavorable mix due to the plan ramp-down on certain of our international Patriot programs.
So looking forward clearly we see the margins at IDS improving primarily in the second half of the year.
That overall business mix will improve just as you said as these new international programs from the end of 2014 and the awards here in the early part of 2015 start to ramp up and move through the production cycle so that the mix gets more favorable but not until the second half of the year.
Okay.
And if I can add one more.
I just want to summarize in terms of some of the commentary about the acquisitions.
Is it fair to say that we’ll see more balanced after the deployment in that $1 billion plus type of acquisitions from here on out now that Websense has been announced? As we sit today and we’ll continue to look for valuated target acquisitions that do position the company for future growth.
But we don’t see as I sit here today a large acquisition of the size of Websense.
But there could potentially be some smaller acquisitions to fit some technology areas that we need to be successful in that market space.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Arment of Sterne Agee CRT.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning Tom and Toby.
Good morning.
A question on - I guess a clarification back to Rob’s comment on kind of domestic versus international.
Clarification Toby on you said the domestic being down a little bit low single-digit international up.
Does that continue at that same pace in the ’16 or do we see domestic improve kind of given Tom’s comments about the ’16 budget? Yes.
So let me answer it this way.
Clearly with the awards that we’ve seen again coming out of the end of last year and into ’14 we’d expect to see strong performance into ’16 on the international front.
On the domestic side of it Todd back to the comments that Tom made earlier relative to where the domestic budgets are going we’d probably see our domestic profile start to flatten out towards the end of the year.
And we could start to see some improvement going forward.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just lastly - and congratulations on all these Patriot wins.
Tom you mentioned kind of 14 countries that now they’re deployed.
I mean how do we think about that long-term? I mean we ask this I think every quarter about what inning are we in in terms of missile defense orders out in the Middle East and Asia but how do we think about the opportunity longer term outside of kind of you just mentioned Poland Germany et cetera? So outside of the bringing on a whole brand new country like we’ve done with Poland we hope to do with Germany that we did do with Qatar there are also the upgrade capabilities with each of the partner countries that have the Patriot system.
And right now we’ve been doing something called Configuration-3 plus.
You may have heard us talk about them on some of the calls.
That’s a major upgrade to the Patriot system that we’re off and working with the Archon.
And as of today there is 72 fire units that are still there for upgrade potential.
And we are working with those customers to upgrade those systems.
And then I also mentioned previously the upgrade for the 360 AESA radar.
That will be a new upgrade for all the Patriot systems.
And there’s over 200 of those radars to be upgraded.
So I think the way of looking at it is that these 14 countries are a market of surrounded around Patriot.
And so we are working with those customers to continually to upgrade those systems to counter the evolving threat.
So there’s a base program that the software upgrades and other things as the threat changes.
And that we work across those countries.
And then also as new technology comes on board to improve the capability of the system we then insert that technology across those 14 countries’ Patriot systems.
So essentially it’s a market on its own that we look to continually to upgrade and provide a support activity.
So it’s a great franchise business.
And it also does for the customers it allows them to share in the cost for any software upgrades for the evolving threat and then also to share in the cost of the development of new technology.
So it’s a great win-win situation for both sides.
That’s great color.
Thanks Tom.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Good morning Pete.
How are you doing? Good good.
Hey on Poland Patriots I was wondering if you could give us some more color on maybe ballpark some of the characteristics of the contract.
There’s a lot of numbers falling out there.
Some of them are talking about more than $5 billion.
Can you give us a sense of how many batteries it’s going to be maybe ballpark the size and length and then when you talk about the 2016 booking are you talking early in the year or later in the year? So just real quick.
So right as of today actually Tuesday we were down - we were selected by Poland to provide the Patriot solution for their integrated air and missile defense system.
And then as part of that activity we have provided various I would call it options for the Polish government variants of Patriot and quantities of fire units and how to set them up in their country.
So we have been working with them.
But now some additional work is required to move forward to definitize what that exact configuration will be for the Polish government.
As part of that effort we also have been working with Polish industry.
We have 25 plus agreements with Polish industry in terms of doing coproduction and potential codevelopment activities all in support of the Patriot system.
So the bottom line is we’ll be in negotiations with the Polish government to act to define exactly what this configuration is.
And as we get that information and get more clarity on that we’ll be providing that to you guys to ensure you understand where that program is going.
And I think Pete given all that Tom said while we can’t exactly predict when the award would come think back out of 2016 because there is some work to be done to work through all those steps.
Okay.
I got it.
I got it.
And then just on the streak [ph] you guys on with Patriot is it fair to say that the IDS being your highest margin business that that maybe has the best kind of midrange growth outlook for the firm? I’ll take it out first and then I’ll let Toby come in and he can put some numbers on some things.
But the bottom line is in IDS with all these Patriots coming in in some cases bumper-to-bumper and some case coming in on top of each other.
What that’s doing and that’s allowing us to stack all this up in the factory to gain significant I would call production efficiencies and getting IDS margins back to what we’ve traditionally have had in that business.
So essentially it’s replenishing the backlog for that factory and allowing us to gain those efficiencies as you move forward.
That’s a good news on IDS.
But don’t forget IDS is also once a major program.
For example the air and missile defense radar program that they have that are off and running.
They also won the 3DELRR which is in protest.
So in addition to the Patriot franchise getting reinvented to a certain extent and all the upgrade potential for it they also have some brand new franchises that are on the horizon that they have in hand.
And that the AMDR is in development.
That’s going to be transitioning into production.
That’s going to go into both the U.S.
domestic and also international coalition partners.
And then we have the 3DELRR which is in protest right now.
But when that comes out of protest assuming Raytheon is on the right side of that that is another program that has a significant actually was set up by OST to be an international program on day one.
So a brand new franchise for them there.
So bottom line is IDS is much more than just Patriot moving forward.
And I have that same - I can give you that same play for each of the other businesses.
All the businesses are coming up with I would call it new franchises.
And they’re also reinventing their existing franchises.
We talked about AMRAAM.
AMRAAM has gone through a whole new upgrade program.
It’s called the AIM-120D.
It’s a brand new missile.
Great capabilities.
And so it’s essentially been reinvented.
And just in the last year over a $1 billion worth of AMRAAM orders.
So this is going on all throughout the company across all our product lines and across all our pursuits.
And I would - Pete I’d just add that specific to IDS when we talk about mix that’s probably the one business within the company that can have the biggest swing or the most impact because of mix in part given the nature of the beast with the large $1 billion plus contracts that drive that within IDS.
So that combined with loading up the factory here does give us confidence that we will be seeing improvement over time in the IDS margin as we had previously talked about.
That’s great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
All right.
Chantilly we have time for one more question please.
Okay.
Your final question comes from the line of Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning Doug.
How are you doing today? Good good.
I wanted to ask on IDS because if we go back historically the business could be doing 16% even 17% type margins.
So I know today on the positive side you’ve got more international work higher percentage of that there which should be good.
And the negative side in the near-term a lot of new programs which you probably are looking at lower margin.
When you talk about what the percentage of international is and then can we expect this to go back over time to those 16% 17% type margin levels that we used to see? So Doug you’re asking a very interesting question to two individuals who used to actually run that business.
I don’t know if you remember that or not.
But we have a deep domain understanding of what it takes to drive the margins in that business.
So Toby is going to walk you through this.
And you couldn’t have asked the two people that are more familiar with our business.
So IDS does have the largest international content of our four businesses.
It has been running close to about 50% 50-50 domestic-international.
And obviously that mix in and of itself putting time in the side does help to drive the margin profile.
As you pointed out we have run going back last year 16%; in 2013 a little over 17%.
And depending upon the timing of some of these other programs that you alluded to which they are development programs they are being booked at lower margins things like AMDR.
Tom mentioned 3DELRR.
As those move ultimately through production they’ll help lift the margin.
But it is possible to see margins start overtime.
But it will take a couple of years once this backlog really gets into kind of full steam on this international Patriot awards before we would potentially see them climbing back up to those past historical levels.
I think Doug one thing that really has - two guys that run that business very excited about what we’re seeing is the I would call it the bumper-to-bumper work and we mentioned just over the last 18 months close to $7 billion worth of new bookings.
And that doesn’t include Poland.
And if you lay in or layer in Poland on top of these others that you have essentially a full factory going up almost to 2022.
So that allows us to really work the efficiencies productivity really allows us to work with our suppliers across the board gives us levers that you don’t have when you just have one contract.
And so we’re very upbeat about IDS here over the next several year.
Both and I will be definitely probing to ensure that they meet our expectations.
Having run the business we know which levers they are.
And if they don’t have their hands on those levers we’ll make sure those hands get on those levers very quickly.
And then shifting gears a little bit.
Two technologies that have become an increasingly high priority in the Pentagon have been directed energy weapons and rail guns two things that you all have been working on for quite a few years.
Could you talk about the outlook for those technologies? Are these something that you see - and what timeframe contributing materially to your revenues? Well number one is we’re - you’re absolutely correct.
We have been investing in these technologies for many years especially the high energy laser.
We see that as core to our business.
We have great domain expertise in that area.
We believe we have a great new technology in that area that will allow us to gain market share.
We are working with the U.S.
government on several programs relative to high energy lasers.
I think the bottom line is going to be Doug is when is the U.S.
government ready to move forward into a major EMD program on one of these systems.
The power levels have to get up to be something that you’d actually want to I would call it put into service.
And the technology that we have allows us to get to those power levels.
But again you do need in this marketplace you need essentially a customer sponsor who’s willing to work with you and take you into EMD program and then transition the production also to go through all the testing required to get one of these systems into the hands of our war fighters.
But I think we’re in the cost of moving in that direction.
But it sounds like it’s a few years off.
Is that -- Yes a few years off I would say.
But we’re not talking decades.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
All right.
We’re going to have to leave it there.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speak with you again on our second quarter conference call on July.
Chantilly.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Todd Ernst Vice President of...
Investor relations.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we’ll reference are available on our Web site at raytheon.com.
Following this morning’s call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the investor relations section of our Web site.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Toby O’Brien our Chief Financial Officer.
We’ll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Toby and then we’ll move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I’d like to caution regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company’s future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
This morning Raytheon reported solid second quarter operating results.
Sales exceeded our guidance increasing by 3% over second quarter 2014.
This was driven by IDS and missiles and was primarily organic.
With this solid revenue performance we now see an opportunity for top line growth in 2015.
EPS and cash flow also exceeded our expectations in the quarter.
This performance demonstrates that our focus on global growth is succeeding.
As a result we have updated our financial outlook to reflect our solid year to date performance and the acquisition of Websense in late May.
Toby will walk you through those details in a few minutes.
Global demand for advanced technologies drove an 11.9% increase in bookings in the quarter compared to the second quarter 2014.
International bookings were particularly strong representing 46% of total bookings led by the $2 billion Saudi Patriot award as well as a number of missile awards.
Domestic bookings were also solid with awards from across our portfolio including Standard Missile 3 Evolved Seasparrow Missile next generation radars for P-8 maritime aircraft as well as $626 million in classified awards at both SAS and IIS.
Given the strength of our overall bookings year to date we now expect full-year 2015 bookings to be approximately $24.5 billion plus or minus $500 million.
The Raytheon team and I had the opportunity to meet with many of our global customers last month at the Paris Air Show.
The feedback reinforced what we have been seeing over the last year.
That is many of them are investing in strong defense to deter evolving threats.
I would note that compared to the Farnborough Air Show last year the demand to strengthen the deterrence has increased particularly from our customers in Eastern Europe the Middle East and North Africa and the Asia-Pacific region.
We see this increased demand reflected in our results.
For example at the end of the second quarter of 2015 approximately 44% of our total backlog was international.
A new high for the company.
This compares to 38% at the end of the second quarter 2014.
Total backlog increased $1.5 billion year-over-year to $34.5 billion.
This is important because it sets the stage for growth and provides future margin expansion opportunity.
I would like to take a moment to further highlight our missile business.
As many of you know Raytheon is a premier provider of missile and ship defense system.
Whether it's for new build or upgrading existing ships most of them will have one or more Raytheon missile systems solutions on them.
Our core product within this domain is our Standard missile family of interceptors.
Standard Missile-6 also known as SM-6 is designed to provide over the horizon defense against aircraft and anti-ship cruise missiles.
In the second quarter an SM-6 successfully intercepted a supersonic target in over the horizon test a key demonstration of the missile's capability.
Further SM-6 moved from low rate initial production to full rate production in the second quarter.
We also received $143 million booking in the quarter which drove year-to-date bookings for SM-6 to approximately $215 million.
Another version of our Standard Missile is SM-3 which is used by the U.S.
Navy to intercept short to intermediate range ballistic missile threats.
This is one of the company's largest programs.
In the second quarter we received a $512 million award for the 1B version of this missile supporting the ongoing ramp-up in production.
The SM-3 1B will be deployed on the U.S.
and allied navy ships.
It will also be deployed at the end of the year on land in Europe as an integral part on Phased Adaptive Approach missile defense system.
The next generation of SM-3 has also taken flight.
In the second quarter SM-3 IIA which we are developing in partnership with Japan had its first flight test which was successful and is expected to enter production later in the decade.
Taken all together Standard Missile programs have driven over $800 million of bookings year-to-date.
Beyond Standard Missile the missile business segment is also benefitting from significant demand for a wide range of other solutions including global demand for Paveway and the Evolved Seasparrow missile which saw strong bookings in the quarter.
Our missile portfolio was well-aligned with the evolving priorities of our global customers and that provides a strong foundation for our future growth.
Looking at our domestic market from a broader perspective.
Defense budget environment remains fluid.
While there have been positive signs coming from Washington there are still differences between Congress and the administration in their approaches to fund fiscal year '16 defense spending.
Additional time maybe needed to resolve these differences which increases the probability of another continuing resolution this fall.
We have had CRs for the past several years and we would not expect a significant impact on our results should we have another one this year.
Now turning to our capital deployment strategy.
As part of our balanced approach we are increasing our expectation for the share repurchase program.
We now expect the share repurchase for full year 2015 to be around $1 billion which represents a $250 million increase both over 2014 and our original expectation for 2015.
This follows a 10.7% increase in the dividend in the first quarter and the Websense transaction in May.
As I mentioned we closed on the Websense acquisition in the second quarter and the integration is on track.
The combination of Raytheon and Websense is a great fit allowing us to bring our advanced cyber-security capabilities to government and commercial customers around the world.
We welcome Websense employees to the Raytheon team.
Overall I am pleased with our performance in the quarter.
The members of our team are proud and passionate about what they do for our global customers our investors and our company.
And the focus and enthusiasm contributed to our success and helped drive our results.
I would like to thank the Raytheon team for its hard work and dedication.
With that let me turn it over to Toby.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the second quarter highlights and then we will move on to questions.
During my remarks I will be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
Okay.
If everyone would please turn to Page 3.
We are pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the second quarter with sales EPS and operating cash flow all better than our expectations.
We had strong bookings in the second quarter at $7.6 billion resulting in a book to bill ratio of 1.3.
Sales were $5.8 billion in the quarter up 3% led by our IDS business.
You should note that with the acquisition of Websense we have moved away from presenting adjusted numbers but have provided additional information that should help you with your understanding of the financial performance of the company.
Our EPS from continuing operations was $1.65 which I will give a little more color on in a few minutes.
And operating cash flow of $376 million was better than our prior guidance driven by the timing of collections.
Second quarter 2015 operating cash flow was higher than last year's second quarter primarily due to the timing of required pension contributions and the expected collection of the eBorders settlement with the U.K.
Home Office which we resolved in the first quarter 2015 partially offset by higher cash taxes.
During the quarter the company repurchased 1.9 million shares of common stock for $200 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 4.6 million shares for $500 million.
As Tom mentioned we closed on the Websense transaction on May 29 and formed Raytheon Websense a new joint venture company that was created through the combination of Websense and Raytheon Cyber Products.
The Raytheon Websense segment results have been presented to reflect Raytheon Cyber Product results for all periods and Websense results after the acquisition date.
Our full year 2015 guidance which I will discuss in a few minutes has been updated to include Websense as well as improved operating performance for the first half of the year which I will address further in a few minutes.
Turning now to Page 4.
Let me start by providing some detail on our second quarter results.
Company bookings for the quarter were $7.6 billion an increase over $800 million compared to the second quarter 2014.
And on a year-to-date basis were $12.1 billion an increase of approximately $1 billion over the same period last year.
It's worth noting that on a trailing four quarter basis our book to bill ratio was 1.1 times.
For the quarter international was 46% of total company bookings and on a year-to-date basis was 41%.
For the year we expect international to be in the range of 32% to 35% of total bookings.
As Tom just mentioned we booked several significant awards in the second quarter including a $2 billion contract for Patriot for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
$538 million on the Warfighter FOCUS program.
$529 million for Standard.
$511 million on Evolved Seasparrow Missile and $363 million Paveway.
Backlog at the end of the second quarter was $34.5 billion an increase of approximately $1.5 billion compared to the second quarter of last year.
And on a funded basis backlog was $25.3 billion an increase of almost $1.8 billion compared to the last year's comparable quarter.
If you now move to Page 5.
As I mentioned earlier for the second quarter 2015 sales exceeded the high end of the guidance range we set in April primarily due to better than expected performance at IDS and missiles.
For the second quarter our international sales were approximately 30% of total sales and all of our businesses were at or above our expectations.
Looking now at sales by business.
IDS had second quarter 2015 net sales of $1.7 billion an increase of approximately 10% compared to the second quarter of 2014.
The increase was primarily due to two recent international Patriot awards.
It is important to note that the second quarter 2015 included the recognition of additional sales for pre-contract work that had previously been deferred.
We now expect full year growth to be closer to 4%.
In the second quarter 2015 IIS and missiles had net sales of $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion respectively.
In line to slightly up when compared with the same quarter last year.
SAS had net sales of $1.4 billion.
The change versus last year was driven by volume on international tactical radar systems programs.
And for Raytheon Websense keep in mind that the results for the second quarter of 2015 include Raytheon Cyber Products for the full quarter and Websense results for the month of June.
Moving ahead to Page 6.
Overall the company continues to perform well.
Our operating margin was 11.1% both on a total company and the business segment basis.
On a year-to-date basis our operating margin was 13.4% and on a business segment basis was 13.2%.
As we discussed on the last few earnings calls compared to 2014 our margins for 2015 have been impacted by a change in program mix as well as higher IR&amp;D and program investments.
We continue to invest in ourselves with the objective of positioning the company for future growth.
So looking now at the business margins.
The change in margins at IDS was primarily driven by a change in program mix on international Patriot programs nearing completion.
Included in IDS operating income in the second quarter of 2015 was an adjusted of $33 million to eliminate all remaining estimated incentive fees related to the air warfare destroyer program due to the shipbuilder extending the planned schedule and related increase in cost to complete its portion of the program.
Although Raytheon's performance continues on plan for both a cost and schedule standpoint the shipbuilder is now estimating an increase in its cost to complete the program which drove the decrease in estimated incentive fees.
The change in margin at IIS was primarily driven by a change in program mix.
Missiles and SAS margins were down in the quarter compared with the same period last year primarily driven by higher net program efficiencies in the second quarter of 2014.
And at Raytheon Websense the second quarter 2015 operating margin reflects higher Raytheon Cyber expenses to develop and launch new commercial products compared to the second quarter 2014 as well as approximately $5 million of restructuring cost associated with the combination of Websense and Raytheon Cyber Products.
When you normalize for these two items Raytheon Websense margin would be in the high teens range.
Before turning to the next page I wanted to spend a minute discussing the purchase accounting adjustments and corporate items related to the Websense acquisition.
In the second quarter of 2015 we had a deferred revenue adjusted of approximately $10 million and about $8 million for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
In addition I want to point out that on the corporate line there is approximately $23 million of Websense acquisition related costs.
Turning now to Page 7.
Second quarter 2015 EPS was $1.65.
Better than expected driven by higher sales.
Of note second quarter 2015 included a favorable $0.29 non-cash tax settlement as reflected in our prior guidance and an unfavorable $0.09 associated with the Websense acquisition.
On Page 9 we are updating the company's financial outlook for 2015 to included Websense as well as our improved operating margin to date compared to our prior guidance.
We are increasing full year 2015 net sales by $400 million.
Of which approximately $300 million is driven by IDS and missiles and approximately $100 million is driven by the Websense acquisition.
We now expect our full year 2015 net sales to be between $22.7 billion and $23.2 billion which is flat to up 2% over 2014.
We now expect the EPS impact from the Websense acquisition to be $0.25 dilutive for 2015 compared with the original estimate of $0.48 we provided you back on April 20.
This change is driven by the completion of our fair value analysis and as a result we have updated our acquisition accounting adjustments.
We have now incorporated this EPS impact into our updated 2015 guidance.
Our full year 2015 EPS is now expected to be in the range of $6.47 to $6.62 which were normalized for the acquisition is an improvement of about $0.05 over our previous guidance.
And as a reminder we have not included in our 2015 guidance the potential extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
As I mentioned earlier we repurchased 1.9 million shares of common stock for $200 million in the quarter.
We are increasing our expected share repurchases for the year and now expect to repurchase approximately $1 billion an increase of about $250 million from our initial outlook.
We have tightened the range on share count and now see our diluted share count to be between 305 million and 306 million shares for 2015.
Also we have raised the low end of the range for our 2015 operating cash flow guidance and now see it between $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion.
And as you can see on Page 9 we have updated this sales guidance range for three of our businesses and for the addition of Raytheon Websense.
We have increased sales at both IDS and missiles to reflect stronger bookings and higher than expected volume to date.
At IIS we adjusted sales to reflect the realignment of Raytheon Cyber Products to the new Raytheon Websense segment.
Turning to margin.
We have updated the margin guidance range for the company to reflect the Websense acquisition and now see operating margin to be between 13.1% and 13.3% for the full year.
At the business segment level we see business segment operating margin in a range of 13.2% to 13.4% for the full year.
It's worth noting that we expect operating margins at Raytheon Websense to be between 9% and 10% for the full year.
And excluding acquisition related costs their margins would be about 17% to 18%.
On Page 10 we have provided some directional guidance on how we currently see the quarterly cadence for sales earnings per share and operating cash flow from continuing operations for the balance of 2015.
And on Page 12 we have provided a full year outlook of the Raytheon Websense acquisition accounting adjustments to help you with your long-term modeling.
Please note that you will see a significant decline in the deferred revenue adjustment over the period and the amortization of acquired intangible assets will begin to decline more significantly after 2018.
We now expect the joint venture to be accretive to GAAP earnings in two to three years compared to our original expectations of three to four years.
Before concluding with regard to our capital deployment strategy we expect to continue to generate strong free cash flow and maintain a strong balance sheet going forward.
We remain focused on deploying capital to create value for our shareholders and customers.
This includes internal investments to support our growth plans as well as returning capital to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.
And as we sit here today possibly smaller targeted acquisitions that fit our technology and global growth needs.
In summary if you stand back and look at the quarter we have solid performance.
Bookings were strong with a book to bill ratio of 1.3.
Our sales EPS and operating cash flow from operations were all higher than expected.
Based on this performance and our near-term expectations we increased our guidance for 2015 sales and if you exclude the impact of the Websense transaction we raised EPS guidance by $0.05.
We had strong cash flow generation and have increased our planned share repurchases from approximately $750 million to approximately $1 billion for the year.
With that Tom and I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Tom just a question on Websense and the overall commercial cyber strategy.
Could you may be put into context what you are seeing there with your expansion into that market just as some of your competitors apparently are exiting.
I am not going to comment on the strategies of other companies but I can tell you that we are very excited about our Websense acquisition and our expansion into the commercial cyber market.
The reasons we decided to do this are still solid and sound.
We have been doing a very heavy integration effort for the last two months.
And several of the reasons and number one as you can see from reading the paper every day the cyber threat continues relative to commercial companies as a new company that comes online everyday of having some type of a breach.
And so we are continuing to get input and demand signals from commercial companies across the board and their demand is they are looking for higher end I would call defense-grade cyber solutions that will continue to -- and we see that increasing in the foreseeable future.
So we see a strong demand strong growth opportunities.
But the combination of Raytheon and Websense is what's helping us deliver that high-end defense grade cyber capability.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to that.
Just really on what you just spoke of.
Is the thrust of this then really to sell Raytheon's product to Websense or through Websense's organization into the commercial market or also to sell the Websense product.
And then what scale do you need to achieve with this segment for this strategy to work for investors? So first of all this is a two way I would say winning side in terms of sales.
One is we are working to our sales channels which were initially in the government related world and international government related world.
We are opening up those channels to the TRITON product which is the Websense main platform.
It's also allowing us the commercial channels to go into the commercial world with our SureView product.
And we believe we now have scale you will see and as Toby showed you it's approximately $500 million a year in revenue and now we have access to the commercial channels that we are going after.
And a plus for the TRITON product is now they have access into the defense and also government channels that we had.
Which side of the two way would be the larger opportunity? I think it goes both ways.
We are seeing a pent up demand on the government side for the TRITON platform and we are also seeing a pent up demand on the commercial side for the elements of the SureView product four main products that dropped into the TRITON platform for up sell.
And we are seeing a benefit both ways and we anticipated those synergies and we are seeing those synergies come to fruition.
Your next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Just a couple of them.
Toby on the AWD program I wondered if you could just clarify if there is any risk of further financial impact there.
Basically you have got that scrubbed to zero.
And then the pre-contract revenue recognition I wondered if you might size that for us? Yes.
So first with AWD the answer is yes that's scrubbed to zero as you say.
The adjustment that we took in the quarter of the $33 million eliminated all of the remaining incentive fees where we were tied to the shipbuilder performance.
So we do not anticipate any additional write-offs there relative to AWD.
And then related to the pre-contract it was in the $100 million to $150 million range.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up.
Obviously I know you have been talking about IDS margin progression but the guidance implies a pretty big step up in the back half of the year.
How should we think about how much of that is trend line to look at going forward and how much might be temporary related to either performance adjustments you expect to see as you hit milestones? Any color you can give us on that would be helpful.
Sure.
Sure.
So I think when you step back from it and we go back to the end of January then again in April we talked about how at the company level we saw a couple of things driving margins down this year.
The unfavorable mix and the higher level of investment.
IDS of all the businesses followed by SAS was most impacted by the unfavorable mix.
So what we are seeing is consistent with what we had expected to see for the year.
That said the margin in Q2 was in line with our expectations.
So even though we had the unfavorable adjustment on AWD we did see some other performance improvements in the quarter that essentially offset that.
That again is consistent with lower margins in the first half of the year.
We still expect to ramp up on IDS margins particularly in Q4 as the overall business mix improved due to the ramp-up of the international awards that we saw at the end of last year and into the early part of this year.
Your next question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Tom could you give us an update on Germany's decision to go with MEADS.
Maybe just is that is more looked at as a one-off or changes anything on the competitive landscape? How you are thinking about future Patriot awards? First of all we continue to work with the German customer.
We already have the Patriot system in there and it is going through some upgrades relative to our Configuration-3 Plus.
They are upgrading some of the -- all their systems.
And they have decided to keep the patriot system operational till 2025.
We have obviously heard their decision on MEADS but at the same time we continue to work with that customer as we proceed forward.
We have not seen any changes relative to any of the competitions we are in or are perceived to be in in the near future that would impact any Patriot opportunities.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And Toby just quickly.
Just on the domestic growth versus international.
I think previously you kind of guided to low single-digit down for domestic and up for international.
Is that still intact for as we look for 2015? Yes.
So for our total year now for domestic the way to think of it Peter is to be flat to down in the low-single digits and for international for the year to be up in the mid-single digits.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Please proceed.
Tom you mentioned the TRITON product at Websense earlier on.
I was wondering if you could give us an idea of how the organic growth on that product has been tracking year to date? Well the organic growth has been tracking about in the double-digits on that product.
And as we mentioned before on the prior calls they have two major products.
One product is I would call web filtering that is declining and being replace by the TRITON platform.
So if you look at the TRITION platform itself it's in double-digit growth year-over-year.
Yes Robert.
As we talked about we only have the month of June in the quarter post-acquisition.
But if we look at the full quarter for Websense TRITON their bookings would have grown by about 10% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Okay.
And then Tom maybe a bigger picture question.
I was wondering if you could comment on what you think the impact to this Iran nuclear deal could be on your customers in the Middle East.
I am not going to get tied up in the politics of it but I can take you back to my statements earlier that we are seeing an increased demand signal across the board.
And it's not just in the Middle East which is what we are seeing in Eastern Europe and also in the Asia Pacific region and it's really for different regions.
But it is -- any uncertainty in the geopolitical aspects of those regions we are seeing an almost immediate reaction from these countries to want to beef up their defense.
And I think if you look at this quarter you will see the results of that in our bookings.
And if you also I did mention it I know it was one quick line in my opening remarks but we hit an all time high in the company this year and that all time high was in the amount of international backlog and that was 44%.
And we didn’t break open any champagne bottles and throw any glasses into the fireplace or anything like that but it is monumental for us to be able to have achieved that.
And I think the correlation goes right to this back that the threat is not going away it's increasing.
And we are seeing it across three major regions of the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Please proceed.
I just wanted to follow up on the line of questioning of the last couple of callers there and have you discuss a little bit more about the longer term outlook as you move out into 2020 the back half of the decade here.
I know you've talked about this before but it would be I think helpful to get some updated thoughts from you on how you view both the domestic and international market playing out over the next couple of years.
When do you see a return to growth in your domestic business? And then as you look out into that as far as 2020 the pipeline that you have on the international side and how you're going to be able to or if you're going to be able to sustain the types of growth that you are seeing today as we move out into the latter years of this decade? So Jess let me and then I will turn it over to Toby and he can put some numbers behind what I say.
Right off the bat I will just go back to the discussions we have had at I think in the last call.
And we have won some major domestic programs that were in development on right now.
One is air missile defense radar the other one is next-generation jammer FAB-T.
We've also won a couple that are still on protest.
But the ones we are finishing up we will be finishing up on development will be in about the '18 '19 timeframe which then will start going into LRIP and then by '20 going into full rate production.
So on the domestic side we are going to start to see an uptick relative to more production programs coming on line.
So I think that’s good on to the domestic front.
You are also seeing based on the budget drills this year that both the administration and also Congress are aligned with the fact that they believe that the budget needs to increase over the Budget Control Act of 2011 caps.
The issue that they are having is how to go off and achieve that increase.
But the bottom line is that they are both aligned the administration and Congress on the need for the increase.
So we feel very positive about some breakthrough here in the next hopefully next year relative to '16s budget increasing over the Budget Control Act caps.
However we do have planned to the Budget Control Act caps which are about 1% increase over the fiscal year 2015.
So we do see the domestic budget increasing over time.
On the international we talked about some major awards.
We were down selected by Poland.
That contract will be definitized over the next year and a half on the details starting ramping up in late 2016 and 2017.
So we see that program picking up and hitting the production numbers in about 2020.
So again an uplift in the timeframe and taking this into 2025.
So overall both on the domestic and on the international we see a significant pipeline that will take us well beyond 2020.
And Jason I will just kind of jump in there a little bit and add a little to what Tom said.
So in addition to the programs transitioning domestically a little bit nearer term SM-3 with the one being the IIA will be moving to production.
And to answer your question about when we would see a return to growth domestically right now as best we can tell maybe late next year and if not into '17 for our revenue to start growing domestically.
I think what Tom just commented on from the international combined with the 44% backlog that’s international today.
That pipeline Tom referred to the 30% of our sales that were in international that sets us up nicely for international to grow including into next year.
And obviously as we said we now see top line growth this year with our outlook for being flat to up 2%.
Previously we had looked at '16 as a return to growth.
So we are kind of moving that outlook in a year and we still see year-over-year growth in '16 as well.
It’s a very I think a very good picture moving forward.
Yes it sounds great.
Just a quick follow-up question.
On margins Toby can you talk a little bit about what's going to happen specifically in IDS in the back half that allows you to achieve the full-year guidance? And then Tom on the longer term outlook you just talked about with these ramping programs.
What did that do to margins for the overall company if you are ramping development and early stage production on those things that you just talked about? Does that put you [indiscernible]? What I think I will do is Toby he just went over on this actually on his discussion before.
He will hit the IDS details and then I will kind of give you the bigger picture relative to where we see margins going in the future.
Yes.
So Jason for IDS as we said before the results so far have been consistent with our expectation given the impact of mix that we have seen there.
In the second half primarily in the fourth quarter is where we expect the uptick and there is really two things that are driving that.
The mix the business mix is going to start to improve with the large international programs again that we booked late last year and through the first half of this year as they continue to move and ramp up through the production cycle.
Additionally we would also expect in the fourth quarter to see more program efficiencies flowing through to the bottom line.
And overall we still see the margin outlook for the total year at IDS in the range of 15.1% to 15.3%.
Then relative to margins on the domestic side we talked about some major development programs we had won and they are now obviously in development.
When they start switching into production we normally see a margin increase due to the fact that we are taking on more risk on the production side on firm type proposals.
I mean firm fixed price contracts.
We will see an uptick there in the margins but on the international side as Toby mentioned we have had some significant bookings here in the last year and a half.
The area we are working right now and I think it's a great sign here is we are bringing on more suppliers.
We are increasing the number of shifts we have in the factory adding on days.
So we are seeing essentially getting quite a bit of synergy across these different wins that we had internationally and we do see a margin expansion across those programs as we go into 2016 and beyond.
And I think Jason just if you are looking for a little more color or detail from an IDS perspective the reason we see that our program efficiency towards the end of the year is the effects of things like strategic sourcing automation in our factories that are driving efficiencies again tied to the ramp up of those major production programs that we have referred to before.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Just a quick follow-up on that one.
Maybe Toby the run rate in the second half of '15 obviously pretty great if you can get there on IDS.
Is that the appropriate way to think about the mix as it's going to look into '16 or is there just a healthy performance in the second half that we should not think about that as a run rate? So let met talk a little bit about IDS right.
So I mentioned in the second quarter they had strong sales growth and part of that was driven by the recognition of the pre-contract work that we talked about earlier.
As far as the second half goes for a Q3 perspective we do expect sales at IDS to be up high single digits in Q3.
However when we get to Q4 we will look to see sales on a quarter-over-quarter basis to be essentially flat compared to last year.
Because in the fourth quarter of last year we did have a buildup of inventory that did convert into sales that makes the comparison a little bit different.
I wouldn’t take that as a run rate going into '16 however but I would expect directionally '16 to be better than '15.
Okay.
No that's really helpful.
And then Tom at a high level lot of companies have been looking at their services blend with hardware.
Do the two cost structures support themselves from a competitive perspective? And I'm sure you've gone through this exercise and not looking to layer other peoples strategies upon you.
But how do you look at that equation where the services market becomes more and more competitive relative to the cost structure that's somewhat required for your hardware sensitive businesses? No actually that’s a great question.
So first thing to just kind of set the stage.
Raytheon never went down the path of getting into Fed IT business.
I don’t know if you realize that.
So we recognized a long time ago that that was not a business that we wanted to be in really because we saw that would eventually get commoditized.
So we don’t have any of that effort going on within the company.
The services that we do most of it is associated with our products.
So that helps us in maintaining our products the logistics associated with our products.
For example we do a lot of performance-based logistics relative to our products and that’s essentially comes under the umbrella of the services.
Then in IIS where most of the traditional services are located they are leaders in advanced solutions and capabilities and providing cyber services intelligence mission support and I would call high consequence training in key markets.
And it's not just for the U.S.
government it's also for governments worldwide.
So it's a pretty strong business for us.
Again we are not in the Fed IT never were.
So that’s an area that I think it's hard to compare us against some of these other companies that are shedding their services because a lot of that shedding is associated with the Fed IT.
Your next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Toby I want to know if in some of your other forecasts going forward you're always going to basically understate acquisitions by about 50% of the cost? Because originally as you indicated it was going to be $0.48 and here we are looking at about half that.
Can you elaborate on what has changed? And as we go forward and look at Websense the deferred revenue number seems relatively modest versus the balance.
What happened? Yes.
So just as a reminder Howard back in April when we gave the initial estimates they were preliminary and subject to our final purchase accounting valuation.
Part of our process we had looked at other transactions and there were a range of potentials relative to percentage of assets etcetera.
Percentage of purchase price that would be potentially characterized as intangible or the deferred revenue.
So we had a range.
We didn’t want to come back here and increase the dilution for lack of a better way to say it.
And in the quarter as we do after we close on all our acquisitions we embarked upon the formal fair value analysis.
We finalized that here at the end of June and what you see now is the update to reflect that.
So it was really nothing more than that.
All right.
I am going to talk about Patriot for one second.
Tom you sort of created a Patriot users group with all of your different customers around the world.
Could you talk a little bit more about the ideas that you are getting from them that are I will call it leading to an ongoing upgrade in the system? And how do you see that playing out? Well let me just -- on a baseline element we are proceeding on upgrades of what's called Configuration-3 Plus.
That was the upgrade to the Patriot system that was funded by the UAE several years back.
We still have 72 fire units out there as opportunities to upgrade to Configuration-3 Plus.
So we are off pursuing that element of it.
In addition to that and as the user group is looking for us to provide a 360 AESA radar and we have been off working that for several years now and done some significant testing and believe we are in a position to take on contracts for that development of the 360 AESA radar.
Right now there is an opportunity to replace 220 Patriot radars with the 360 AESA radar.
So significant upgrades there.
The other area that we are doing and it's on the international side is and it's in Qatar it's a contract to provide an air defense operating center which integrates all air defense systems.
I think that will be the next thing that we are seeing with some of these other customers who have other air defense assets.
They want them integrated with one common operating picture so that they can get the synergy of having everything together in one place and operated by one operator.
So those are the type of upgrades we are pursuing.
In many of the cases we already have contracts to start those systems so we already have the initial customers.
And then in some cases we are getting ready to get or first initial customer to move forward with them.
Your next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Two questions on content.
Can you remind us of your exposures to Sikorsky however you want to quantify that? I think it's small but just to verify.
And how should we think about Raytheon's potential role on long range strike? Haven't really heard a lot about that.
Any color on that? Maybe it's too early maybe not.
Anything you want to provide would be great.
Relative to Sikorsky you are right.
We don’t have much content on the Sikorsky products.
We have worked a lot with them.
I have personally worked with Sikorsky on programs in the past.
But right now it's not a significant of our revenue stream.
Relative to long range strike we really can't comment at this time.
Okay.
I got you.
All right thanks.
And then I think you guys made the comment last quarter you've made I think dozens of cyber acquisitions over the last couple of years.
I'm curious to hear what some of the lessons learned would be in terms of the pitfalls? Not necessarily what went right but what went wrong? And what can you take from that as we look at Websense in terms of things to avoid in the past that can be applied here at least? I will tell you what the lessons learnt led to the acquisition of Websense.
And so the lessons were if we did very well in buying these companies on the government side but we were not achieving any upside relative to the commercial side.
And so when we went back and reevaluated the reason why it turned out that we didn’t have the commercial channels.
And it takes quite a bit of effort to establish channels to be able to reach out to 30 000 customers versus 20 government customers.
That’s the different game.
Is wasn’t the technology an underlying technology it wasn’t the products it wasn’t the personnel.
It was essentially not having access to the market channels that’s required in the commercial business.
And so that was the lesson learnt.
And so we took that lesson learned and we went out and we started in 2013 looking at what was the best company out there that we could potentially acquire that would enable us to unlock the capabilities we had from the other acquisitions but into the commercial marketplace.
And someone that already had a strong position already had a new product a new platform allowing us to move forward.
And so essentially it was the structure of how we implemented those companies.
And we right now have -- everything we are seeing we think we have taken that lesson learned to heart and are making the right inroads into that commercial marketplace.
Your next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Please proceed.
Toby did I hear you right where you said Websense would be at high teens margins ex the cost to develop the commercial cyber product and then restructuring it? And if so how long does it take until you are kind of through that spend to actually report high teens margins at Websense? Yes.
So the answer to the first part is you hear it correct.
Without those two items we would be we said 17% to 18% part 1.
Part 2 relative to the timing of that so we are always going to be looking to make investments in technology and make sure we are keeping up with the threat there.
But if we were to look out over time without that probably in the '17 timeframe.
And how long are you running on the restructuring side? I mean how much restructuring is there to do here? The majority of it will be completed this year.
There could be a little bit of a tail into early part of next year.
Okay.
And then a follow-up.
So you've talked about $7 billion roughly in Patriot orders.
A little bit surprised.
I would have thought a fair amount of those orders would come with advanced payments yet we haven't really seen -- we've actually seen the advanced payment balance go down.
Can you just comment on that? So a couple of those orders were FMS right which do not have the advanced payments.
What you have really seen here is a timing issue right.
And if I take it back up to a higher level not specific to those orders we have seen the advance account on the balance sheet to your point David fluctuate over time driven by the timing of those advances and then when they are subsequently liquidated.
On average historically we have run at a rate of about 9% to 10% of sales okay.
At the end of the first quarter the balance was about $2 billion to your point as well.
Slightly below our five-year average which has been around $2.2 billion.
And really the main driver on that was timing.
Back last year in the first quarter we had received a significant advance from a customer and we had full liquidated that here to the first quarter of '15.
On some of the new awards we have milestone payments as well that are more weighted towards the back half of the year.
That all said from an overall point of view we would expect our advances to remain in the range of about 9% of sales this year which is pretty much in line with prior periods in that $2 billion range.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran from Buckingham Research.
Please proceed.
A lot has been asked.
I just wanted to ask you about some upcoming programs.
There's this JSTARS recapitalization program out there.
You announced some recent teaming with Bombardier and Lockheed.
Northrop recently announced with Boeing.
I just want to know from your perspective is this indicative that the program is more near term? If you could give us any sense of the timing of the opportunity and some sense of the size? Any color here on this would be helpful because I tend to think this is a rather substantial opportunity for you.
No we agree with you.
You are right.
We are teamed with Lockheed and Bombardier on one of the teams for work including sensors and some additional work.
We are also providing a radar as a kind of a merchant supplier for the other teams if they so desire.
So we are kind of have been spending quite a bit of time on this program in ensuring that we wind up with a piece of it moving forward.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up here also.
So on your 3-D printing technology just wanted to get a sense here.
Is this applicable to current and future missile programs? Is this technology applicable across the board? Because I know there has been things like trying to get an upgrade here of the Tomahawk etcetera.
Or is this more something that you are gearing towards like next generation missile programs like the next generation land attack weapon? Let met first tell you why it's important and what it's bringing to the industry.
The 3-D printing allows you to essentially build up these very complex assemblies.
Multi-part assemblies as one part one continuous part and therefore improving cost.
But it also does something else.
In areas where heat is a major issue it allows the heat transfer capabilities to be significantly enhanced.
When you have an assembly with multiple parts that are tied together you have heat issues at the intersection of those pieces.
So by being able to build one continuous very complex part and you can solve a lot of the heat transfer problems which is very important as we move into the hypersonics area of our missiles.
Okay.
We are going to have to leave it there this morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our third quarter call in October.
Mark? Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes your call.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and I'll be your operator for today.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
All right thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our website at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Toby O'Brien our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Toby and then we'll move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
A little over a year ago we laid out a strategy to return the company to growth by evolving our approach to international markets and increasing investments in key technologies to better position the company for the future.
Our strong growth during the third quarter reflects the traction that we are gaining from this strategy.
In the quarter our revenue increased by 6% driven primarily by missiles and IDS as well as from an increased contribution from Raytheon|Websense.
International revenue which grew by 13% over last year's third quarter rose to 32% of the company's total revenue.
This is a record level for the company and was driven by customers across various regions turning to Raytheon's advanced technology to address the rapidly-evolving threats.
I would also note that our growth was backed by strong cash flow generation reinforcing our strong financial foundation.
Domestic revenue also increased in the quarter and was up a solid 3% driven in part by classified.
Turning now to bookings.
In the third quarter international drove 26% of our total bookings.
Key international awards included the second phase of the Air Defense Operations Center for Qatar plus missiles training and radars for a number of other international customers.
Domestically bookings included training classified as well as various missile programs including AIM-9X the Joint Standoff Weapon and SM-3.
Given our year-to-date bookings strength and our expectation for a strong finish to the year we are now raising our full-year 2015 bookings outlook to $25.5 billion plus or minus $500 million which translates into a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.1 for the year.
This is $1 billion increase to the prior bookings range that we gave you last quarter driven by strong demand from our global customers.
Further it sets the stage for solid top line growth in 2016 which Toby will talk about in a moment.
In the quarter IIS received good news on two key awards one from the U.S.
Air Force and the other from the Department of Homeland Security.
For the U.S.
Air Force contract which is often referred to as NISSC Raytheon will be providing products and sustainment services that support NORAD and its mission to provide air missile and space threat warnings as well as critical command and control capabilities.
NISSC has a $700 million ceiling value over five years.
This competitive win was initially awarded to Raytheon in April of this year but was protested.
The protest was resolved in our favor late in the third quarter.
I would add that this award follows a series of recent programs wins at IIS for high value-added services.
These wins reflect our modernization through sustainment strategy.
As for the Department of Homeland Security award Raytheon was selected to be the prime contractor for the development and sustainment of the National Cyber Security Protection System a system providing the vital infrastructure that assists more than 100 federal civilian and government agencies with the protection of their networks against advanced cyber threats.
This award has a ceiling value in excess of $1 billion over a seven year period.
While this too has been protested the customer recognized our compelling cyber strength when making the award another strong validation of our cyber strategy and capabilities.
In addition we have been supporting our long term growth strategy by increasing investments in our business and advanced technologies.
Consistent with our discussions on prior calls IR&amp;D is being directed to areas that we believe will be future growth markets including directed energy and hypersonics and undersea to name just a few.
Investments in these technologies will position us well for the future as our customers look for capabilities to counter increasingly sophisticated threats that are developing on the horizon.
I'd like to shift gears and take a minute to touch on our capital deployment strategy.
We continue forward with a balanced approach and we are on track to achieve our $1 billion share buyback target for 2015 that we outlined back in July.
After the close of the quarter we did announce a small acquisition that fills a cyber security technology gap and enhances our position in high value managed security services one of the fastest growing areas in the cyber security market.
This is consistent with our go-forward strategy of pursuing smaller targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
Before concluding I would like to note that the Websense integration is on track.
As you will recall we are currently in the process of combining our legacy Raytheon Cyber Products business with the Websense acquisition that we completed in May.
The business segment had solid margin performance in the quarter and we continue to work to integrate Raytheon Cyber Products technology into the Websense architecture.
To close I want to say how proud I am of the Raytheon team and their hard work and dedication that has allowed us to deliver growth despite sequestration and I want to thank them for their focus on performance which benefits our customers our company and our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Toby.
Thanks Tom.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the third quarter highlights and then we'll move on to questions.
During my remarks I'll be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning.
If everyone would please turn to page three.
We are pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in the third quarter with sales EPS and operating cash flow all at or better than our expectations.
We had solid bookings in the third quarter of $5.3 billion.
Sales were $5.8 billion in the quarter up 6% led by our IDS missiles and Raytheon|Websense businesses.
EPS from continuing operations was $1.47 which I'll give a little more color on in a few minutes.
And operating cash flow of $1.1 billion was better than our prior guidance driven by the timing of collections.
Third quarter 2015 operating cash flow was significantly higher than last year's third quarter primarily due to the improvement in working capital and the timing of cash taxes paid in the quarter.
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock for $250 million bringing the year-to-date share repurchase to 7 million shares for $750 million.
Turning now to page four.
Let me start by providing some detail on our third quarter results.
Company bookings for the third quarter were $5.3 billion.
On a year-to-date basis bookings were $17.4 billion an increase of approximately $425 million over the same period last year.
It's worth noting that on a trailing four-quarter basis our book-to-bill ratio was 1.06 and as Tom just mentioned given the strength of our overall bookings year-to-date we now expect full year 2015 bookings to be approximately $25.5 billion plus or minus $500 million an increase of over $1 billion from the outlook on the last call in July.
This provide a solid foundation for sales growth in 2016.
For the quarter international was 26% of our total company bookings and on a year-to-date basis was 37%.
For the year we expect international to be approximately 35% of total bookings.
Backlog at the end of the third quarter was $33.6 billion compared to $33.2 billion at the end of the third quarter of last year.
And on a funded basis backlog was $24.4 billion an increase of almost $1.5 billion compared to last year's third quarter.
We expect 2015 year-end total backlog to be up between 4% and 8% from year-end 2014.
If you now move to page five.
Sales in the third quarter of 2015 were strong primarily due to the performance at IDS and missiles.
Looking now at sales by business IDS had third quarter 2015 net sales of $1.5 billion an increase of approximately 7% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
This increase was primarily due to two recent international Patriot awards.
Missiles had net sales of $1.6 billion in the third quarter 2015 an increase of approximately 11%.
This increase was driven by higher sales spread across various production programs including the TOW missile program and certain missile defense programs.
In the third quarter 2015 IIS had net sales of $1.4 billion down slightly when compared with the same quarter last year.
SAS had net sales of $1.4 billion.
The change versus last year was driven by volume on international tactical radar programs.
And for Raytheon|Websense the increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Websense which we completed in the second quarter of 2015.
As a reminder third quarter 2014 included the results for only Raytheon Cyber Products.
Moving ahead to page six overall the company continues perform well.
Our operating margin was 12.1% for the total company and 12.3% on a business segment basis.
Year-to-date operating margin was 12.9% at both the total company and business segment level.
As we discussed on the last few earnings calls.
Compared to 2014 our margins for 2015 have been impacted by a change in program mix as well as higher investments.
We continue to invest in ourselves with the objective of positioning the company for future growth.
So looking now at the business margins.
The change in margins at IDS was primarily driven by a change in program mix on international Patriot programs nearing completion which is similar to what we've experienced in the past when we've completed certain programs and ramped up on others.
We expect IDS margins to be strong in the fourth quarter driven by strong performance as well as from an expected contractual modification.
The change in margins at IIS was primarily driven by a change in program mix and acquisition related cost.
Missiles margins increased 40 basis points in the third quarter 2015 primarily due to a change in program mix.
SAS margins were down in the quarter as expected compared with the same period last year primarily driven by higher net program efficiencies in the third quarter of 2014.
And at Raytheon|Websense the third quarter 2015 operating margin was driven by strong operating performance as well as the timing of restructuring expenses in the quarter.
We expect restructuring cost to increase in the fourth quarter reducing margins sequentially but still on track to meet the full year 2015 margin outlook.
Turning now to page seven third quarter 2015 EPS was $1.47 better than expected driven by improved margin primarily at missiles and SAS.
As you look at the EPS walk operations is being impacted by the investments we are making in the business and program mix.
These are largely offset by our reduced share count.
The timing of tax related items and non-cash expenses related to the Raytheon|Websense acquisition make up the difference.
On page eight we've tightened the full range for full year 2015 net sales increasing the high end by $100 million.
We now expect net sales to be between $23 billion and $23.3 billion.
As we have done in prior years during the third quarter we updated our actuarial estimates related to our pension plans.
As a result of this update the FAS/CAS adjustment for the year decreased by $12 million from $197 million to $185 million or an unfavorable impact of $0.03 per share.
We're reaffirming our full year 2015 EPS outlook of $6.47 to $6.62.
While this outlook is unchanged from our prior guidance I would note that we were able to absorb the impact of the unfavorable $0.03 FAS/CAS adjustment.
And as a reminder we have not included in our 2015 guidance the potential extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
If the legislation passes it would favorably impact the effective tax rate by about 130 basis points and our EPS by about $0.11 per share.
As I mentioned earlier we repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock for $250 million in the quarter and now see our diluted share count to be approximately 305 million shares for 2015.
Operating cash flow in the third quarter was strong primarily due to the timing of collections.
We continue to see our full year 2015 operating cash flow outlook coming in between $2.5 billion to $2.7 billion.
And as you can see on page nine we've included guidance by business.
We've increased and tightened the full year sales outlook at both IDS and missiles.
At IDS this is driven by the program mix and performance to date that I discussed earlier.
Missiles has also experienced better than expected year to date growth.
In addition we tightened the full year sales range for IIS and SAS.
Now turning to margins.
We've increased the range and expect higher full year operating margin performance for missiles and SAS.
The strong year to date results exceeded our prior estimates.
We lowered the range of our full year operating margin guidance for IDS driven by the change in program mix and performance to date.
Now turning to next year.
As we have done in the past we intend to provide detailed 2016 guidance on our fourth quarter earnings call in January.
However as we sit here today we currently see strong sales growth for 2016 at 3% to 4% over the midpoint of our 2015 outlook driven in part by some new development awards we are expecting.
We expect segment margins to be flat to up for 2016 compared to 2015 excluding the eBorders settlement in 2015 and depending upon the mix from higher volume in 2016.
This positions us well going forward with further margin expansion over time as new development wins lead to production.
I would also add that we currently expect FAS/CAS to improve in 2016 over 2015 which I'll talk about in a moment.
In addition we expect operating cash flow from continuing operations to be higher in 2016 versus 2015 after adjusting for the eBorder settlement.
Of course I want to caveat all this by saying our assumptions are based on a defense budget being approved in Washington before year end thereby avoiding an extended CR or a government shutdown.
So if you could please move to page 10.
We have provided a FAS/CAS pension adjustment matrix for 2016 as we've done in prior years.
As I just mentioned we expect to see improvement to the FAS/CAS adjustment in 2016 compared to 2015 given the current interest rate environment and asset returns.
That said and just to be clear the discount rate and the actual asset returns won't be known until we close out 2015.
We'll provide a more detailed pension outlook on our January year-end call.
Before concluding as we have discussed on past earnings calls with regard to our capital deployment strategy we expect to continue to generate strong free cash flow and maintain a strong balance sheet at our current credit rating going forward.
We remain focused on deploying capital to create value for our shareholders and customers.
This includes internal investments to support our growth plans as well as returning capital to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends making smaller targeted acquisitions that fit our technology and global growth needs and from time to time making discretionary contributions to our pension plans.
And as a reminder as we said on the second quarter earnings call in July we increased our share buyback by $250 million from our original expectation bringing the full year 2015 buyback to approximately $1 billion.
In summary we saw solid performance in the third quarter.
Bookings were strong our sales EPS and operating cash flow from continuing operations were all at or above our expectations.
And our strong cash flow and balance sheet will allow us to continue to drive value for our customers and our shareholders.
We are well positioned for continued growth in 2016.
With that Tom and I will open up the call for questions.
Your first question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Tom Toby.
Good morning.
Good morning Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> I wondered if we might just kind of get a little bit more color on IDS.
Obviously it seems like the top line is quite strong.
That has implications for the mix I think relative to your commentary about 2016 that you've sort of been hinting at recently.
Should we think that you've got a little bit more top line with a little bit less favorable mix next year than what you were talking about before or is this sort of in line with where you were before? Well look Carter let me talk about this year for a little minute because I think it's kind of a precursor heading into 2016.
So for IDS as I mentioned we still expect margins in Q4 to be strong.
We did however adjust our guidance.
It does reflect as you just suggested an update in mix and our performance to date.
Specifically we are seeing more development work on programs like AMDR and we have had some increase in our content on AWD.
Combine that with the fact that we're still ramping up on some of our other large recent awards which we've talked about in the past.
They start out at lower margins.
They expand their margins over time as they progress to this cycle and retire risk.
So we're still seeing that mix issue impact us as we go through the balance of this year okay.
But that bodes well for the future as those development programs move into production.
And that thought is contemplated in the initial outlook that we gave you for 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah so there's no material change in the performance expectation of the EACs it's more just the mix of the work you're saying.
That is correct.
I would say it's development program driven growth that exceeded our expectations at IDS this year.
And what that does lead us into opportunities in 2016 2017 and 2018 as we transition those programs into production on top of all of the Patriot production work that we are starting up on now for example Qatar program.
So we have a very positive outlook for IDS.
Just a reminder both Toby and myself ran that business so we know all the levers in driving margin in the business.
And we see clear signs and opportunities based on the mix that they have today moving into 2016 and 2017 and 2018.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then a quick follow up.
I don't know if you can tell from a pro forma basis on the Raytheon|Websense top line what it would have been like had you owned it or maybe break out what Raytheon Cyber Products maybe did in growth terms year over year? Do you have any color in that? Well the growth that we show obviously because we only had Cyber Products in last year's third quarter is essentially all from the acquisition of Websense.
And the way to think about it it would have to answer your question it would have been flat year over year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Seth Seifman from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask – morning – to ask about missiles and this was sort of the second quarter in a row that you've increased the sales guidance there.
And you were up I guess about 5% or 6% from where you were at the start of the year.
And talk about really what's driving that.
How much of it is coming from the Middle East? Kind of how sustainable that is and put some ties around that.
Yeah I'll start and then obviously Tom can jump in here if he wants to add some color.
So to your point missile sales were up in the third quarter from prior year double digits around 11% and that's sequential growth as well.
We do expect the missiles sales cadence to continue to improve into Q4 really driven by volume from our production programs.
And it's really not one individual program as I mentioned in my opening comments.
It's across multiple production programs TOW and some of the standard missile family of programs as well.
For the total year we see sales growth in the mid single digits.
Obviously as you said we have updated our guidance to reflect the favorable performance year to date in our outlook for Q4.
But there's not one individual program and/or country if you will that's driving that.
It's just a very strong portfolio of programs that's pushing the growth up in the missiles business.
Can I just jump on that? I mean you did see there was a successful SM-3 launch this past week with our European coalition partners.
And so we see a significant demand signal pull for missile defense missiles relative to our European partners outside of the US itself.
And then if you go across the regions you do know that there's significant turmoil in the Eastern Europe area so we see demand signals there obviously in the Middle East.
But we're also starting to see demand signals in the Asia-Pacific region.
We saw it initially in South Korea with Patriot orders but we were also seeing it in the areas relative to replenishing the weapons that they have.
So it's not just in one region it's essentially across the globe that we're seeing these demand signal pulls.
Great.
And I just - And I think just Seth another thing that reinforces that the bookings for the quarter AIM-9X Paveway JSOW spares et cetera right SM-3.
It's again it's across that portfolio that we have in our missiles business.
Great okay thanks.
Just as a real quick follow-up on a totally different topic we heard a little earlier in the week about some delays from the government in executing undefinitized contract actions.
Just wondering if you've seen anything similar.
I mean these are – are you talking about UCAs? UCAs yeah.
Yeah yeah and if those are having any impact on your platform.
Yeah.
I'll tell you it is an area that we track in the business.
It is something that is necessary especially relative to FMS contracts to shorten the period of getting on contract and starting to work the programs.
We do track and try to drive the definitization of those UCAs as soon as possible.
I mean that's something we work with directly with the Department of Defense.
And I can tell you I have my I review those on a periodic basis to make sure that they're not getting out of control.
I can tell you the department wants to definitize them as soon as possible also but it is a lot of work.
And we just got to make sure that we work hand and glove together with the government to drive those to closure as soon as possible.
Great thanks.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Cai von Rumohr from Cowen.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thank you very much and good quarter guys.
Hey Cai.
So your guidance on international of 35% orders kind of works out looks like it's $2.6 billion in orders in the fourth quarter.
That looks like a pretty big number.
Could you give us some color on what's in there any particular single large awards? Yeah.
So I'll give you at a high level Cai.
Unlike prior years we don't have any binary $1 billion-plus type of awards whether it be international or domestic in the fourth quarter.
So there is not one particular program or award that's driving it.
We do have several programs in the $500 million range plus or minus.
And Tom I don t know if you want to comment any more detail on.
Well I mean there's several Patriot related awards.
We're also looking at the several C5I awards also.
And this is not international but the domestic air some air traffic work.
And then we already mentioned the missile company in terms of their portfolio of missiles being in demand on the international marketplace.
I do want to mention something go back to something that Toby said about the binaries.
And in the past we've always had one of these big $1 billion or multi-billion dollar binaries we were waiting on.
One of the elements of our international strategy was to not just have one but to have three or four binaries so that we were never relying on any given one.
And that's actually the position the great position we're in today.
We don't just have one order we're waiting for to be able to achieve several billion dollars worth of international bookings.
And it's kind of a different – it's a totally different feel here.
It's a great feel by the way that we don't have to hang our hat on one big binary in any quarter.
But the bottom line is the international strategy we put in place is paying off relative to that.
Terrific.
Your R&amp;D was up 100 basis points as a percent of sales.
Maybe give us some color what you're spending on where it should be for the year and how much of that is recoverable under IR&amp;D? Well it's all IR&amp;D so it's all recoverable depending on whether it's a cost plus contract in our rates or a firm fixed-price contract.
So that's the answer to your first one.
The areas that we've been concentrating on and we've been talking about this on the calls is high energy lasers.
It's been a big area for us.
We do see that as a new up and coming area.
There's a lot of demand signal from multiple services.
Also the other big area is hypersonics.
As the threat gets more and more sophisticated it requires more I would call it speed and agility to be able to get to the threat and hypersonics are becoming a big part of that.
So we are investing in that.
We've had some great successes in terms of wins on some advanced technology contracts with DARPA in the hypersonics area over the last four months.
And then also we're really engaging in the undersea area and really looking as that starts to expand and becoming an area of interest especially relative to anti-access/area denial.
We continue to invest in advanced EW again driven by the need for a systems to counter the evolving threat.
And we also see a demand especially across the Middle East region for our C5ISR solutions.
So we're continuing to invest in that product line.
And Cai I think your question about recoverability think of it this way.
About a quarter of that increase at least in dollars so about $15 million of that relates to Websense.
So that obviously on the commercial side not recoverable on US government contracts.
But the balance of the increase is recoverable on our contracts.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Doug Harned from Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
I wanted to go back to Carter's question on IDS because I just wanted to make sure we understand what happened sort of Q3 to Q4.
Is the change the fact that the margins are lower in Q3 and you expect them to then increase in Q4 does that have to do more with timing on specific programs particularly international ones or is it more increased spending in the quarter for things like AMDR? What changed from what you thought was going to happen a quarter ago? From Q3 to Q4 Doug? Well no.
In Q2 when you laid out your guidance clearly you had thought you would have higher margins earlier and that's been pushed out.
What changed there? Yeah so I think that a couple of things that – and I'll try not to be repetitive to Carter's question here.
So the mix is changing right so we're seeing higher volume.
But because of the higher levels of development work and some increases on AWD that are at lower margins we're seeing that which is new compared to what we had expected before.
The other thing too we as I mentioned in my comments we do expect which is not atypical to have a contract modification that will result in income that we recognize in the fourth quarter and the magnitude of that is a little less than what we had previously expected.
So from a Q4 point of view and therefore a total year perspective that those are the two major things that are driving the change.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then when you look at international it's a lot of focus on things that the binaries as you were referring to them and those often are Patriot systems things like that.
If you look beyond it I'm trying to get a sense of what other areas such as early warning radars potential Hawk replacements when you look at some of the other systems out there that may be in pretty good demand can you characterize how important those are relative to some of these big systems that make the big headlines? Well I would say for example the TPY-2 radar that's part of THAAD but it's also now being looked at as essentially an early warning radar.
It's kind of standing on its own and we're getting – there's been a lot of interest on that system within THAAD obviously but also outside of THAAD.
So that's I would call that that's been a development that's been occurring here over the last couple of years.
So we see that in the future as a major international system that we provide.
Obviously we have the Patriot System itself.
We have a big award in 2016.
It's the Qatar early warning radar.
So it's on the order of $1 billion potential for that system.
That's getting ready to go through congressional notification.
And earlier had a congressional notification but the customer wanted to increase the size of the radar so we have to go back.
And that looks like that'll complete this year with CN and with an award in 2016.
We also we talked quite a bit about a lot of our missile products which are big.
And you are correct we are getting traction in integrated air and missile defense especially relative to our NASAM system.
That's starting to get traction especially as a replacement to the Hawk System.
So outside of Patriot we see multiple other areas that are allowing us to essentially get out of this pure Patriot binary that we're waiting on.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Hey Toby a couple of quick clarification questions for you.
Can you give us a sense of how much that contract mod might we worth so that we can get a truer sense of what sustainable margins are in the fourth quarter? Yeah so as far as the amount we're still in negotiations and working through this with our customer.
So unfortunately Jason I won't give you specifics.
But what I can tell you to maybe try to help you size it if you remember we did have a similar type of item at IDS in last year's fourth quarter.
But I would tell you that was of higher value or higher magnitude than the one we're looking at here.
Our run rate for the quarter even if you exclude this item I would tell you our run rate for the quarter would still be better than our year to date performance.
So even without that item the Q4 margin would be better than year to date.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Another clarification question the flat to up margins that you suggested for next year ex the eBorder settlement is that at the segment level or total company-wide operating margins? That's a fair question.
That's at the segment level.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
And then lastly from me your bookings that you're expecting for this year does the resolution of the continuing resolution have any impact on that outcome? No Jason.
We feel good about the outlook for this year regardless of what happens with the shutdown.
So on our domestic none of them are new starts and there's also a significant amount of international which is obviously independent of the CR.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you gentlemen.
And hey Jason just a little bit of a follow up to your question about the margin rate for next year as I said it is at the segment level.
And as a reminder obviously we'll update it in January but we do expect our FAS/CAS to be improved next year from this year as well if you're thinking about it from a total company point of view.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Right and then at that segment level guidance then are you willing at this point to give us a first look at whether any of those segments will be up more than others? Are there any big movements in any of the segments? Are you saying that total segments are going to be flat to up? Is there any movement up or down that we should be aware of? Yeah no I mean our goal today was to give everyone a high look at where we are headed for next year.
We're in the middle of our process for locking down 2016.
So we're not going to go any deeper than we did but certainly in January we'll give you all the details and the color around each of the businesses.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Fair enough.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
How are you doing? Hi.
How are you? We're doing great.
Good.
When you're growing it feels good.
Can you ask you a question? I know you have thousands of programs but to just ask about a couple.
Any update in terms of 3DELRR in terms of the protest when that might get re-awarded? And then any comments in terms of the long range discrimination radar and what happened with that one.
Yeah let me hit the 3DELRR first.
For those who don't know we essentially were awarded the 3DELRR.
There was a protest.
And through the protest process the U.S.
Air Force has decided to essentially recompete the 3DELRR.
So that's right now in a competition.
At the same time we are in an appeal process to see if we can undo that and have the award sustained.
So that's where we're at on that.
I can't really say much more about that one.
You are correct on the long range discrimination radar.
There was an announcement last night that didn't go in our favor.
We are obviously disappointed in that.
We feel we had a good solution for the Missile Defense Agency.
And we are awaiting our debrief because we really don't have any more information than essentially you have based on the release out of the DoD.
Okay.
And so if I can follow up if I look at that grid on page 10 can you kind of talk about where you would be right now if we ended the year? And then secondly have you given any thought or would you consider voluntary contributions this year to help move that a little bit as well? Yeah so our return year to date is around 1% okay on our assets to the first part of your question.
I'll just add a little bit more color there.
And if we were even to remain flat for the remainder of the year as I mentioned earlier when to Jason's question we would still see our FAS/CAS income for 2016 to be better than 2015 as I mentioned earlier.
As far as the discretionary contribution that is an element of our balanced capital deployment.
We will look from time to time to make that.
Right now we don't have a plan to do that but it's certainly something depending upon how things shape up over the next couple of months that we'll be evaluating and certainly we'll obviously let everyone know if we choose to do something there.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning George.
At the Analyst Meeting in September you'd commented that the big increases in margins on these international contracts usually occur three or four years out.
Now there's a change in the guidance this quarter.
Any change changed that at all or are we still probably look for maybe some margin improvement next year but the bigger increase is in 2017 and 2018? Yeah George it's Toby.
I mean what we said for next year early look right was flat to slightly up on margins.
But related to those major production programs it would really be 2017 and 2018 when we'd be in the sweet spot from driving the productivity and the efficiencies on those programs.
And then Toby just one further clarification.
The segment margin it's probably pretty trivial.
But does that include Websense or does that just relating to the defense pieces? No it includes Websense but it does not include the amortization of the intangibles or the deferred revenue.
So it includes their operating results if you will.
Okay and those margins should get better next year I mean even though you commented the fourth quarter will be much weaker than the 17.5% you just reported.
Yeah we would see on an operating basis excluding the accounting in acquisition related adjustments we would see margins next year in the high teens okay.
And what's happening here this year Q2 had low margins for Websense because of the restructuring related activities.
And it's just a timing issue.
We didn't have much going on relative to how those costs we incurred in Q3.
We expect them to pick back up if you will as we work towards completing the integration activities which is going to drive the margins down in Q4.
But again all within the outlook we've given for the year for Websense.
And then last quick one.
You mentioned I thought in an earlier question that Websense on a pro forma basis was relatively flat with last year.
So what starts the growth next year that you've been looking for? Yeah so what's happening at Websense we're seeing growth in their TRITON platform and their TRITON product and related services in around the 10% range.
And as we've talked about before they have a legacy web filtering business that has been declining.
It continues to decline and the two of those are kind of a push that get us to that flat.
So what would drive the growth in the future is both the combination of the expansion of TRITON but also the integration of the Raytheon Cyber Products into the TRITON platform and the synergies of cross-selling across both customer sets that Websense bring to the table and RCP bring to the table.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks George.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Robert.
So Tom just going back to IDS and thinking about the 3% to 4% top line growth in the context of all the business you've won and moving past the fourth quarter dynamics which sounds at least on the margin side somewhat one time how do we think about the ramp at IDS with all this new business particularly in international Patriot over the next couple of years? And how significant a part of the 3% to 4% is that next year? Meaning is that primarily driven by IDS or you're getting some help from missile systems there as well? Well on IDS let's talk about IDS first.
So the new awards especially the big Patriot awards are normally about a five-year period to essentially get through those programs.
So on these new ones for example Qatar we're just in the first inning essentially the first year of that contract.
So we're in the I would call it the ramping up element.
And Toby addressed this on a prior question here.
So we see the sweet spots especially relative to the Patriot orders occurring in the 2017 and 2018 timeframe relative to the margin expansion as we ramp up.
So does that mean Tom that the segments are going to all be somewhat similar? Or the growth segments I'm looking at missiles systems and IDS and that essentially the other two primary segments are a partial offset there? Yeah Rob I think again we were just trying to give everybody a high level look at next year.
We're not prepared to go into the details by business because some things are probably going to move around between now and January when we do that for you guys.
As I mentioned we're still in the middle of our process of walking this all down.
Okay.
And then just on services itself there's a lot of activity in the market some people buying others selling.
You've gotten deeper into commercial cyber.
Is there any kind of portfolio shaping that's left at IIS just to streamline services going forward in a market that seems a little bit volatile if I may? Yeah so Robert we continually look at that in terms of our portfolio shaping essentially quarterly in terms of all of our programs.
And then we mentioned this on prior calls we never got into the fed IT business.
We had good vision and I guess we had the right crystal ball at the time not to get into that particular business area.
So most of our services are what we call the value-added type services in terms of servicing our products and our solutions.
We're getting us into areas where we can do maintenance and sustainment and also upgrades to systems that are out there which essentially fits better into our overall portfolio of other systems.
Okay.
And I think Rob in general we're always looking at that across the company.
Right.
Including if there are certain programs or products that are better suited even internally in one business or another.
So it's something we constantly look at.
All right.
It sounds like you're pretty happy with the portfolio.
And then just a quick one.
I don't know what you can say on this.
You were asked about it last quarter but I'm going to ask it differently.
I know you can't talk about what you'll do for bomber but can you tell us which team you're more significantly positioned on? I wish I could tell you anything on the bomber but I'm not going to be able to tell – go there on that answer.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
All right.
Okay thanks Tom.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Good morning Robert.
Hi Rob.
Just quickly on the cash front Tom both of you actually Tom and Toby.
You both mentioned that your appetite for acquisitions going forward would be pretty small.
I was wondering what sort of free cash flow return to shareholders we might anticipate looking forward.
We're looking at sort of 90% or something like that.
And then as a follow up what do you think the split would be of that return between buybacks and dividends? Thank you.
Well I'll give you kind of the top line here and we keep readdressing this at all our calls to make sure that you understand how consistent we are on it.
And we do drive a balanced capital deployment strategy.
And so we look at all avenues and try to make sure we do the right thing for the shareholder in terms of total shareholder return.
So from that perspective I'll give it over to Toby here to go through the I guess the exact numbers as we move forward.
Yeah so I think Rob as you know we've been in the range of 80% to 90% the last few years.
Be similar this year depending on how things shake out a little bit.
As far as going forward I think generally speaking I think of it at the same way in the context of the broad balanced capital deployment strategy that Tom just referred to.
Again we think it's served us well historically.
As far as the mix I won't comment specifically on a mix of how that return would split between dividend and/or buyback.
But what I would tell you that both elements would be part of our return to shareholders going forward.
Obviously we're subject to board approval on these things.
But from a dividend perspective obviously we want to make sure it's competitive and sustainable at the same time.
And we'll give you all an update early next year as to our thinking on that and I think it's usually our March timeframe when we get the board to vote on the dividend and we'll provide you that detailed information.
But you're absolutely right too about the aspect of acquisitions and just to be very clear we don't have sitting here today any $1 billion-plus deals that we're contemplating for any part of the portfolio including our commercial cyber venture.
It would be the more niche targeted type of acquisitions that fill technology gaps or product gaps or customer gaps as we've talked about.
Okay.
That's great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Robert.
Thanks Robert.
Your next question comes from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
On the strong cash flow this quarter I think you mentioned cash tax timing.
Can you tell us what were cash taxes in the quarter and then what's the full year expectation? And then is there any opportunity to outperform your cash flow guidance? So let me start with the last one first.
I mean we feel pretty comfortable.
Obviously we've got a range of a couple hundred million dollars on the cash flow outlook for the year of the $2.5 billion to the $2.7 billion.
As far as Q3 of 2015 versus 2014 the cash taxes were favorable by about $130 million on a quarter-over-quarter basis there.
Let me just check on the absolute amount of the cash taxes here for you.
So the cash taxes paid this year were about $300 million.
That's year to date or for the full year? No that was in the quarter okay.
For full year it's about $1.2 billion.
Okay got you got you.
And then just one follow-up guys.
It's some of the wins you had I think LISC and NORAD that came off I thought they were in the IIS segment.
And I think you made some comments at the beginning but are those in IIS? And if so I was surprised I mean we didn't get a guidance increase in that segment.
They were both in IIS that's correct.
Just remember one of them the DOMino is being protested.
So it was not – I mean it was awarded but then protested.
Okay.
Okay.
The NISSC was protested and then the protest went in our favor.
So that one's done.
But DOMino award was protested and it's still in protest.
Yeah and obviously where there wasn't a guidance increase Pete those were contemplated in the outlook we had previously given.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning Hunter.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up to Rob's question about the capital deployment.
I understand you guys want to give yourselves some flexibility.
But just if we just go through just some of the moving parts in terms of sort of higher operating cash flow next year net of eBorders.
Given the 80% to 90% return policy which has been how you guys have thought about it historically would you say at a baseline it's probably fair to assume that the repo continues at this $250 million s quarter $1 billion annual run rate at a baseline barring a major change in sort of the funding environment? Is it fair to think about it that way? Yeah I wouldn't think of it that way necessarily.
I mean we bumped it up this year right.
We were at $750 million.
We went up to $1 billion based upon how we felt about where the stock was valued and the growth opportunities that we had in front of us to improve the valuation in the stock which we've talked about today relative to the strong bookings to date the backlog the growth we see for next year.
We obviously still think that there's upside in the valuation from Websense.
We know we're in a kind of a wait and see period here.
But over time and again not to beat a dead horse right we just wanted to give you all a high level view of things and we'll certainly provide more color and specificity on the detailed components of our overall capital plan in the January call as well.
Okay.
Thanks.
All right I think the other message we wanted to send is that the growth in 2015 is not limited to 2015 based obviously on our backlog but also what we see in the demand signal pulls we will be growing in 2016.
That was really the message.
Okay.
All right thanks guys.
And then as we think about international a little bit more sort of parsing that out a little bit.
Maybe this is an incorrect conclusion but does the orientation towards some of the smaller size awards dovetail into maybe more of a direct commercial mix versus FMS or is that just a line that shouldn't be drawn? And if you could give me at a higher level sort of how foreign direct has trended as a percentage of the international bookings and backlog over the last couple years and how you sort of expect that to trend moving forward into next year? Let me give you kind of our strategy relative to FMS versus direct commercial sale.
So number one is we always work with the customer.
And if a customer prefers to go FMS we obviously support that customer and go on FMS.
If there is a choice to be made between FMS and direct commercial sale we do look at in terms of what is the overall risk in taking a direct commercial sale.
So we're pretty prudent in terms of how we make the decisions relative to pushing FMS versus DCS.
Now that being said we do have significant DCS opportunities.
We have the direct commercial sale work in-house today that we're doing quite well on.
And Toby can give you the exact breakout.
Yeah so at the end of Q3 about 40% of our international backlog was FMS with the balance being direct commercial so the 40-60 split.
That's changed a little bit.
It's come the FMS content percentage-wise has come down a little bit by maybe about 5 points.
So that had been a little bit higher around 45%.
Going forward I don't know that I'd necessarily expect any major change.
I'm thinking we'd probably continue to be in that 40% to 45% range at any given point depending upon the mix of programs.
And as Tom said some of them we have to have FMS.
Some of them we'll try to drive to DCS.
But I wouldn't expect any significant change in that mix.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
All right.
It looks like we're going to have to leave it there.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter call in January.
Mark? Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Raytheon Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Todd Ernst Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
All right.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today on our fourth quarter conference call.
The results that we announced this morning the audio feed of this call and the slides that we'll reference are available on our web site at raytheon.com.
Following this morning's call an archive of both the audio replay and a printable version of the slides will be available in the Investor Relations section of our web site.
With me today are Tom Kennedy our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Toby O'Brien our Chief Financial Officer.
We'll start with some brief remarks by Tom and Toby and then we'll move on to questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to caution you regarding our forward-looking statements.
Any matters discussed today that are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans objectives and expected performance constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on a wide range of assumptions that the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized at the end of our earnings release and are discussed in detail in our SEC filings.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Todd.
Good morning everyone.
I am very pleased with both our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results and I'd like to begin by touching on a few highlights.
Our total book-to-bill ratio for the year was 1.09.
This reflects strong global demand for our Advanced Solutions and positions us well going into 2016.
We finished the full year with top line growth of 2% driven by our growth in our international business which more than offset a slight decline in domestic.
Company segment margins in 2015 were as expected at 13.1% as the team delivered solid operating performance.
Cash flow was also solid providing us the opportunity to return the majority of our cash flow to shareholders while also funding our pension plans and investing in our future growth.
So all in all the company is performing very well and we are confident in our future.
As you can see from our 2015 results and the 2016 outlook the global threat environment continues to drive demand for Raytheon solutions.
I would also add that in my conversations with our global customers it is clear that short term shifts in economic growth factors have taken a back seat to ensuring the sovereignty and security of the nations that face these security threats.
In particular let me highlight what we are seeing in three regions.
In the Middle East demand signals increased last year despite the decline in oil prices.
Tensions within the region are driving demand for missile defense long range radars modernized command and control systems sensors cyber security and precision munitions; areas that align with our core strengths.
I have been asked many times if oil prices have impacted demand.
From our viewpoint we have not seen a negative impact and here is one of many examples why.
Over the past year alone Patriot has intercepted more than a dozen ballistic missiles fired in the region.
Missiles that otherwise could have caused significant casualties and damage to critical infrastructure and defense sites.
In the Asia-Pacific region customers are also updating their missile defense systems sensors and other capabilities in light of recent developments there.
Increased tensions related to territorial disputes and evolving economic interests are motivating allies in this region to invest more heavily in deterrent capabilities to protect their national interest.
As you may recall South Korea awarded us a significant upgrade to its Patriot systems in 2015.
Looking forward in 2016 we see opportunities across the region in tactical radars ship-based radars missiles force protection systems and precision munitions.
And in Europe we are seeing renewed and increased interest from a number of countries in acquiring integrated air and missile defense solutions providing additional opportunities for Patriot and NASAMs.
Domestically we were pleased to see the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act which adjusted the defense budget caps higher for fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2017 including a 15% increased in modernization funding in fiscal year 2016.
These changes provided much needed funding for our armed forces while also improving visibility and predictability for the defense industry.
This will yield a positive impact on our results beginning in 2016 and then continuing into 2017.
Even as we emerge from several years of declining U.S.
Defense budgets are now beginning to see growth the environment remains competitive.
To ensure Raytheon's long term competitive advantage we have increased our independent research and development capital expenditures and other investments to fund the development of the advanced game changing technologies of the future.
Ranging from hypersonics and cyber security to directed energy.
As expected IR&amp;D reached 3% of our sales in 2015 a similar level is expected in 2016.
Now let me give you some more details about our 2015 results; strong demand from global customers drove bookings of $25.2 billion for the full year; a 5% increase over 2014.
Domestic bookings were strong with a full year book-to-bill ratio of 1.04.
This sets up a better than originally expected domestic revenue growth outlook for 2016 which I will discuss more in a moment.
International comprised 34% of our total bookings in 2015 and our international book-to-bill ratio was a very robust 1.19 for the year.
Total backlog at the end of 2015 was $34.7 billion an increase of $1.1 billion over 2014.
Again providing a solid foundation as we move into 2016.
International ended the year at 43% of total backlog compared to 40% at year end 2014.
Successful execution of our growth strategy and increasing demand from our global customers resulted in return of growth in 2015 a year earlier than we had originally expected.
Our full year 2015 international sales increased 9% over 2014 reaching 21% of our total annual sales a new company record.
In addition for the second consecutive year we saw good growth in classified sales which increased about 6% in the year.
In this environment we are also continuously looking for more ways to lower our costs enhance our competitiveness and improve affordability for our customers.
A few examples include executing our strategic sourcing strategy to reduce costs in our supply chain; leveraging our centralized global business services organization to more efficiently provide back office support to their businesses and reducing our footprint taking out a gross total of 1.9 million square feet in 2015.
In addition we have kicked off a new complexity reduction initiative to reduce costs and simplify business processes across the company.
Looking forward to 2016 we expect to see continued strong demand that should ultimately drive our bookings to the $25 billion to $26 billion range for the year.
This would translate into a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.05.
Key bookings for the year include Qatar early warning radar the EMD phase as a next generation jammer and SM3.
More than ever before demand from our global customers is broad-based and diversified.
Along with the strong bookings we experienced in 2015 this continued strength should position us well to deliver revenue growth of between 3% to 5% in 2016 which is better than what we had mentioned when we provided our initial outlook during the Q3 earnings call.
I would add that this includes an expectation of 2% to 4% growth from domestic customers.
This would be the first time we have seen growth in our domestic business since 2009.
Further cash flow from operations is expected to increase significantly in 2016 from solid 2015 levels.
The strong fundamental performance provides a foundation for the continuation of our balanced capital deployment strategy with the objective of creating shareholder value.
Our number one priority remains executing our growth strategy and investing it ourselves.
Beyond this we remain committed to providing a competitive dividend.
We also continue to see value in our stock and expect to continue the share buyback at the 2015s robust levels.
Part of our growth strategy is bringing our advanced cyber security capabilities to government and commercial customers around the world.
In 2015 in support of this strategy we increased our presence in the commercial cyber security market in a meaningful way with the formation of Raytheon Websense.
And earlier this month we changed its name to Forcepoint to more effectively brand and position our broad cyber security capabilities in the market.
We further strengthened Forcepoint by completing the acquisition of Stonesoft at the close of the fourth quarter.
The small acquisition which is consistent with our M&amp;A strategy that we have articulated over the past several calls provides next generation firewall technology that fills an important technology gap and broadens our cyber security capabilities.
The Stonesoft acquisition will become part of the Forcepoint business segment.
We are excited about the breadth and depth of the product offerings at Forcepoint that places us in a strong competitive position.
I'd like to close by thanking the Raytheon team for a great year and for the dedication and all the efforts that went into returning the company to growth ahead of schedule while continuing to deliver for our global customers.
With that let me turn it over to Toby.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
I have a few opening remarks starting with the fourth quarter and full year results.
Then I will discuss our outlook for 2016.
After that we will open up the call for questions.
During my remarks I will be referring to the web slides that we issued earlier this morning which are posted on our web site.
Okay would everyone please move to page 3? We are pleased with the solid performance the team delivered in both the fourth quarter and the full year with bookings sales EPS and operating cash flow all consistent with or better than our expectations.
We had strong bookings in the fourth quarter at $7.9 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.24 and for the year we had bookings of $25.2 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.09.
This sets the stage for continued growth in 2016 which I will discuss in more detail in just a few minutes.
Sales were $6.3 billion in the quarter up 3% led by our missiles IDS and Forcepoint businesses.
International sales grew 16% in the fourth quarter and for the year sales were up 2% ending at $23.2 billion.
Our EPS from continuing operations was $1.85 for the quarter and $6.75 for the full year which I will give a little more color on in a few minutes.
We also generated strong operating cash flow of $813 million for the quarter and $2.3 billion for the year after a $200 million pre-tax discretionary pension contribution which was not in our prior guidance.
Additionally during the quarter the company repurchased 2 million shares of common stock for $250 million bringing the full year 2015 repurchases to 9 million shares for about $1 billion.
As we have previously disclosed in the fourth quarter of 2015 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2 billion of the company's outstanding common stock.
The company ended the year with a solid balance sheet and net debt of approximately $2.1 billion.
Turning now to page 4 let me go through some of the details of our fourth quarter and full year results.
As I mentioned earlier we had strong bookings of $7.9 billion in the quarter and $25.2 billion for the full year resulting in a year end backlog of $34.7 billion.
The company ended 2015 with a funded backlog of $25.1 billion an increase of $2 billion from year end 2014.
Its worth noting that both IDS and Missile Systems had outstanding bookings performance for the full year 2015.
For the quarter international orders represented 27% of our total company bookings and for the full year was 34% of total bookings.
And as Tom mentioned earlier at the end of 2015 approximately 43% of our total backlog was international.
Turning now to page 5; we had fourth quarter sales of $6.3 billion up 3% over the same period in 2014.
This was at the high end of the guidance range we had set in October.
So looking now at the businesses; IDS had net sales of $1.7 billion in the quarter and they were up 5% from the same period last year.
Primarily due to higher sales on certain international Patriot programs and on the Air Warfare Destroyer program.
Net sales at IIS were $1.4 billion in the quarter down from the same period last year primarily due to lower sales on an international classified program.
Missile Systems had fourth quarter 2015 net sales of $1.9 billion up 9% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales on Paveway.
SAS had net sales of $1.6 billion in Q4 the change was spread across numerous programs with no one significant driver.
And for Forcepoint the increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Websense which we completed in the second quarter of 2015.
As a reminder fourth quarter 2014 included the results for Raytheon cyber products only.
For the full year sales were $23.2 billion up approximately 2% over full year 2014 consistent with expectations.
International sales growth more than offset the slight decline in domestic sales.
Moving ahead to page 6; we delivered solid operational performance in the quarter and the full year.
Looking at business margins in the quarter as expected in the fourth quarter of 2015 IDS received a contract modification to restructure the AWD program essentially separating our incentive fees from the shipyard's performance.
This resulted in a favorable $53 million adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2015 for IDS.
Missile Systems and SAS margins both exceeded the guidance range that we provided back in October while both IIS and Forcepoint met our guidance.
Turning to page 7 we had solid operating margin performance for the year.
Segment margins were 13.1% which was consistent with our expectations and as a reminder this included $181 million for the eBorder settlement earlier in the year at IIS worth about 80 basis points.
On page 8 you will see both the fourth quarter and full year EPS.
In the fourth quarter 2015 our EPS was $1.85 and for the full year was $6.75.
EPS for the quarter was strong and above the guidance we provided you in October; even after accounting for the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
As a reminder the R&amp;D tax credit was worth about $0.11 and was not in our prior guidance.
Moving on to our 2016 guidance on page 9; we see sales in the range of between $24 billion and $24.5 billion up 3% to 5% from 2015.
The increase is driven by growth in both our domestic and international business.
Our 2016 outlook for the deferred revenue adjustment is $67 million and for the amortization of acquired intangibles is $121 million.
Its important to note that effective January 1 2016 we reclassify amortization of acquired intangibles and the deferred revenue adjustment.
This change affects all businesses other than Forcepoint which had already been reporting that way.
These non-cash items will no longer be reported within the business segments.
Instead these will be reported in separate deferred revenue adjustment and amortization of acquired intangibles lines that we have provided for you here.
A reconciliation that walks you from the prior method to the current one is in Attachment G to the press release.
As for pension we see the 2016 FAS/CAS adjustment at a positive $428 million which I will discuss in just a minute.
We expect net interest expense to be between $220 million and $230 million.
We see our average diluted shares outstanding to be between $296 million and $298 million on a full year basis a reduction of approximately 2% to 3% driven by the continuation of our share repurchase program which we expect at levels comparable to 2015.
We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
Our 2016 tax rate is higher than 2015 primarily due to the $0.29 per share favorable tax settlement we received in 2015.
Its important to note that our 2016 tax rate includes the R&amp;D tax credit which was permanently extended at the end of 2015.
In 2016 we see our EPS to be in the range of $6.80 to $7.
Our operating cash flow for continuing operations for 2016 is expected to be between $2.7 billion and $3 billion compared to $2.3 billion in 2015.
As we sit here today we do not anticipate making a discretionary contribution to our pension plans in 2016.
As we previously mentioned we did make a $200 million discretionary contribution in 2015.
Before moving on to page 10 I want to mention that we expect our 2016 bookings to be between $25 billion and $26 billion driven by demand from a broad base of domestic and international customers and we expect stronger bookings in the second half of the year similar to the last several years.
Continuing on to page 10 before I cover the 2016 guidance by business its important to note that effective January 1 2016 we reorganized the IDS and IIS business segments to move certain air traffic systems border and critical infrastructure protection and highway tolling programs from IDS to IIS.
We did this to more efficiently leverage our capabilities within the businesses.
To assist you with your modeling you will find the recast segment data in the attachments provided at the end of the earnings release.
Now moving to our initial 2016 guidance by business; at the midpoint of the sales range we expect to see growth in all of our businesses in 2016.
With respect to segment margins consistent with our prior comments we expect 2016 margins to continue to be solid in the 12.4% to 12.6% range which is in line to slightly up when you compare to 2015 excluding the eBorders settlement.
And similar to 2015 our 2016 segment margin outlook assumes that IR&amp;D is approximately 3% of sales.
I would also like to point out that when it makes sense we have and will continue to make opportunistic investments in specific next generation U.S.
programs to better position the company for longer term organic growth.
Investments which we believe will create value for our shareholders.
At IDS we see margins in the 15.9% to 16.1% range.
I want to point out that our full year 2016 guidance includes operating income at IDS related to an expected exit from certain business ventures later in 2016 which you can think of in the $100 million to $125 million range.
Excluding this the change from 2015 is driven by mix most notably we are continuing to ramp up on several new programs including on a couple of Patriot awards that we received in early 2015 from South Korea and Saudi Arabia.
As you know we typically see lower margins at the inception of longer duration programs which can increase over time as we retire risk and drive operational efficiencies.
We expect IIS margins of 7.4% to 7.6%.
This is in line year-over-year when you adjust for the 2015 eBorders settlement.
We see missiles margins in the 13% to 13.2% range consistent with 2015.
SAS margins are expected to be in the 12.9% to 13.1% range down from 2015 driven by mix as a result of completing some international programs as well as from higher business investments in 2016.
And at Forcepoint we expect margins to be in the 11.5% to 12.5% range this includes the impact from the Stonesoft acquisition that Tom discussed earlier.
Without this impact margins would be approximately 15%.
If you now turn to page 11 we have provided you with our 2016 outlook by quarter.
You notice that sales ramp up throughout the year and on page 12 as we have done in the past we have provided a summary of the financial impact from pensions in 2015 as well as the projected impact for 2016 through 2018 holding all assumptions constant.
As I mentioned earlier we see the FAS/CAS adjustment in 2016 at a positive $428 million which reflects our investment returns in 2015 on our U.S.
pension assets which were flat and the December 31 discount rate of 4.5%.
The discount rate is up 40 basis points from last year.
Looking beyond 2016 keep in mind each 25 basis point change in the discount rate drives a $70 million to $80 million change in FAS/CAS.
And finally on page 13 we have provided an updated three-year outlook of the acquisition accounting adjustments to help you with your long term modeling.
Please note that you will see a significant decline in the deferred revenue adjustment over the period and the amortization of acquired intangible assets will begin to decline more significantly after 2018.
Before concluding as we have discussed on past earning calls with regard to our capital deployment strategy we expect to continue to generate strong free cash flow and maintain a strong balance sheet at our current credit rating going forward.
We remain focused on deploying capital to create value for our shareholders and customers.
This includes internal investments to support our growth plans as well as returning capital to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends making smaller targeted acquisitions that fit our technology and global growth needs and from time-to-time making discretionary contributions to our pension plans.
Let me conclude by saying that in 2015 Raytheon again delivered solid operating performance with bookings sales earnings and operating cash flow on or ahead of expectations.
Book-to-bill was strong and our international business grew significantly.
We have a strong balance sheet which gives us flexibility and options to continue to drive shareholder value and we are well positioned to grow in 2016 and beyond both in our international and domestic business.
So with that we will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Please proceed sir.
Hey good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the call here.
I was wondering if you could just walk through the cadence for the year in a little bit more detail.
Perhaps talking a little bit about opportunities and risks through the cadence for the year what would cause things to come in a little earlier? What would cause things to get pushed out and just kind of how you generally view the risks and opportunities for the cadence for the year that would be great? Hey Jason it's Toby.
So I think if we step back from this and look at a high level on the cadence what you see from the revenue profile it's not too dramatically different than last year.
It's influenced by as you would expect the timing of awards especially in 2015 and we had a strong back half to the year.
So we see an influence to the ramp-up in the second half of the year in part driven by the growth and the timing of the awards we saw in late 2015.
That flows through obviously to the EPS cadence and the other thing I would add the exit of business ventures at IDS that I talked that's planned to be in the second half in Q3 which has an influence on the back half cadence from an EPS point of view as well.
And are you willing to offer a little bit more granularity on the businesses that you're exiting? I think I'd put it this way; we constantly look at our portfolio.
We talked on the call here about a couple of things one which is just moving up some of the businesses from IDS to IIS because we think its going to drive some more efficiencies given how those products have matured they are more of a service-support model.
Where in the past IIS had actually performed a lot of work on it.
So we think we will get more efficiencies out of that.
I can't get into too much detail right now beyond what I said for the exit of the business ventures at IDS just because of the confidentiality around it.
But we certainly can talk more about that once that is concluded -- as we said here we expect by the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from Doug Harned from Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
Good morning Doug.
I am interested in IDS because if we go back a year ago when you were looking forward you were expecting some margin expansion that you would see operating margins up in the 15% range.
And it seemed as the year went on you looked at new awards coming in that pushed out in time that margin expansion.
But now as you look at 2016 and if you make adjustment for the exit from those businesses it seems like you are still at a lower margin level than one might think and one might have expected.
Can you talk about how you look at that IDS trajectory now? I know you mentioned a couple of the new programs which may put some pressure on margins in the near term.
But I am trying to understand when we can expect to get kind of the full margin advantage one might expect from a mature set of international programs? Sure Doug.
Let me kind of walk through that and try to give you some more color on that.
So as I mentioned and you alluded to we do have $100 million to $125 million in the 2016 forecast for IDS related to the exit of a business venture.
I will note at IDS in any given year in part because of the nature of their programs and the size of them we have had favorable profit adjustments that were significant.
Maybe about the half of the size of this if you look back over time.
So this pickup is a bit larger but it does help to offset 2016 some of the mix that we have been talking about that you just referred to with the ramp up of these programs that are in the early stages.
Further as we have talked about at both IDS and across the company we are investing more particularly in strategic areas where we do see significant growth opportunities.
We also continue to execute on some lower margin programs at IDS such as AMDR the Qatar ADOC the classified radar program that we won last year and all this taken together is a key component of our growth story.
But in the near term it is impacting our IDS margins as well.
At the end of the day even with the IDS margin we have been able to maintain a solid company margin position and deliver top line growth due to the strength of the portfolio and we continue to be focused on driving down our costs over head and other costs for the last several years and as you know we have seen significant improvements from a number of different initiatives there around facilities reductions factory automation strategic sourcing expanding our shared services working on our organization structure when we have collapsed from six to four businesses and as we have talked about internationally we changed our model on how we approach international business and that is clearly paying off from a growth perspective overall and internationally.
As we now are resuming growth we will continue to drive costs down with an objective to improve and grow earnings through both top line and margin improvement.
As far as the cadence of IDS margins going forward I would think of it this way as you said if you were to adjust for the exit of the business venture I think as we said in the past we would expect year-over-year and continue to see IDS margins improve incrementally.
Again adjusting for the impact of the business venture as these larger production programs that run five years kind of get into the sweet spot into 2017 and 2018 which would drive that improved margin at IDS.
So if I have this right then you are saying that you still expect with these attractive international contracts that you can get up to the margins the sort of high 16s maybe margins we have seen in the past.
But if this has just taken longer than you probably would have expected six to 12 months ago.
So I am not going to give you beyond what we have put out there for 2016 margin expectation for IDS other than directional indication or cadence.
But yes we really haven't changed our thinking around this.
You got to keep in mind as we said; in the case of Patriot these awards generally run five years and a couple big ones that I mentioned in the prepared comments those are -- we are only a year into those and its usually into plus or minus the third year of those programs which will be starting in 2017 when we normally see the opportunity to retire risk drive efficiencies.
We also had if you recall at the end of 2014 a major award for Qatar.
Again that will kind of be hitting the sweet spot when we get into 2017.
So I won't put a specific margin bogey out there but we definitely would see improvement in 2017 and improvement over that in 2018 driven by these large programs.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Toby the cash flow even if you add it back to $200 million came kind of at the low end of your guidance and then you have a bigger increase in 2016.
Was some of that -- something was missing [indiscernible] or you just explained kind of the walk [ph] from the 2015 number of say 2.5 to get to the 2.7 to 3? Yeah so the way to think of it George you're right we came in towards the low end when you adjust for the discretionary pension contribution.
When I look at the change year-over-year its primarily driven by a combination of our net pension funding and lower cash taxes.
From an operational or program level we see things kind of in line with the cadence that we saw in 2015.
Okay.
Then one quick one what was the organic growth if we looked at Forcepoint and put it in the acquisition so what would it have been year-over-year? For the company? For Forcepoint? I mean if we put in the acquisition you made and we put in Websense for last year? So if you'd normalize -- on a normalized basis for the full year the topline would have been roughly flat which is what we have been expecting.
You are talking 2015 right? I am talking 2015 then I was going to ask the 2016 comparison? Sure.
For 2015 for Forcepoint normalized on a full year basis the revenue growth would have been flat.
That would have been higher sales of the new products the Trident platform offset by a decline in the legacy products on the web filtering which is consistent with what we have been expecting.
If you roll it forward to 2016 and exclude the acquisition that Tom talked about for the next-gen firewall we'd be looking at high single digit growth on a normalized basis.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Okay George.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Please proceed.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Tom you mentioned you're getting quite a few questions about the potential impact of the oil price on your defense export sales.
I was wondering if you could size the proportion of either your backlog or your sales of going into the Middle East? And whether you have seen any signs from those customers of any changing priorities or deferrals of orders or deliveries or anything in particular? And then secondly do you think this is the peak as a percentage of exports in your backlog? Thank you.
That's an excellent question.
Number one is I just did come back from the Middle East visiting our key customers in multiple countries.
So my statement in the script was really based on communications that I had directly with the leaders of these countries.
And what I am seeing -- at least what I am hearing from these leaders is their number one priority is to protect the sovereignty of their nation.
And then words they use I have mentioned this before and I heard it again just several weeks ago is that a strong defense is a strong deterrence.
And in fact during my trip we uncovered or told about several other opportunities in the region.
So if anything we are seeing a stronger demand than a slowdown and that's my words were that we are not seeing an impact relative to the price of oil at this time.
I hope that gives you a complete answer but that's what I am seeing directly from the leaders of these countries.
And just to follow-up on the backlog percentage do you think this is about as high as you are going to get at 43%? Not based on any opportunities we are seeing out there.
There is always opportunity to grow and its just a matter of bringing those opportunities across the goal line.
Hey Rob so I'd maybe just add a little bit on that just to put a little context.
We expect strong bookings internationally to continue into 2016 roughly 35% plus or minus of the bookings that we -- that the range that we gave you.
We expect it would be international.
Keep in mind we are projecting 2% to 4% growth domestically as a subset of the three to five at the company level.
And would expect international sales to be roughly at the same level in 2016 as 2015.
So we continue to see as Tom said momentum in that area.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
I was wondering if you could talk just philosophically about the decision you made to pull the amortization of intangibles or deferred revenue out of the segment? I am just wondering when it comes to acquisition opportunities doesn't that make the segments willing to pay a little higher price than they would have otherwise? How do you make sure that now you have got the pricing right and the hurdle rates? I will give you the answer my view here in two parts right.
First of all why we did it; if you recall back April-May of last year when we announced the Websense deal for that acquisition we started with that convention but only limited to that acquisition.
And at the time we contemplated doing it completely across the portfolio but we didn't want to mess with the pure nature of the numbers around Websense.
So we purposely deferred that to the end of the year to have kind of a clean break going into 2016 and it obviously puts both of those elements on the same basis consistently across the company.
So that's part one why we did it.
As far as the second part of your question are we concerned about the businesses running or willing to pay more even if that were to be the case we have got a pretty disciplined process here at the company.
We have got a core team and an acquisition review team that all acquisitions have to go through.
I am on that Tom's on that as you would imagine a few others and through that we spend a lot of time around valuation looking at it two three different ways.
And I won't get into any stats but I would tell you there are plenty of deals in the past that we lost because we wouldn't get higher.
We lost on price for a lack of a better way to say it.
So I think we got the right controls and process in place within the company to make sure that we continue to only bid and pay what is a fair value for any property.
And just to follow-up the decisions on acquisitions are done at the corporate level not at the business level.
Okay.
Thanks.
And if I could just follow-up Toby if I just look at the first quarter you have got the most working days but clearly the lowest earnings.
And I know you mentioned one of it was from the exit of those businesses later in the year.
But how is it that earnings are so low that early in the year? So you're right.
There are more days calendar days in Q1.
That said we still show growth in Q1 on a year-over-year basis.
I think as you know in any given quarter some of our revenue depends upon not just the number of days but the timing of material which is a significant portion of our cost base.
We are guiding to 3% to 4% growth over last year's first quarter and that puts our 2015 sales per day roughly in line for the quarter.
So we don't see anything abnormal about it and part of it again I think back to Jason's comment around the cadence with the strong bookings we saw in the second half of the year especially domestically we'd see more of a ramp on that towards the back half of the year on our programs.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much.
I want to talk maybe philosophically for a second also.
I think I heard you or Tom say that you are willing to make some strategic investments in programs.
And if I look at one of your competitors that has reported they acknowledge taking a charge in LR/DR and I also am aware that you have been challenged a little bit in a classified program at IIS.
So could you talk a little bit about what you are doing in terms of balancing growth opportunities versus making sure you build a -- call it a wall of strategic advantage in your businesses Tom? So I think number one is we do invest inside the company relative to ensuring that we have the right discriminators and differentiators to compete across all our businesses and not only just to compete but obviously to win.
So those investments come through the avenue of IRAD some capital investments also people bringing on the right talent so that we can go and win those major competitions because they are the future franchises for the company.
And that has been our overall strategy over the years.
We look at programs that are going to have runs for decades.
You know what's the next Patriot one of the examples is Air and Missile Defense Radar that's going to be our next major franchise coming to fruition here in the next several years next generation jammer win the [indiscernible] win these are all franchise programs and we made sure over the years that we have been investing in the right IRAD and the right capital to support those projects and then also in having the right talent onboard.
And that's just something that we do as part of the company moving forward.
And the good news is we are seeing the results of those investments.
And again the results for these franchises that we won over the last couple of years and that we intend to continue to win as we move forward and we see a lot of opportunity here in 2016 2017 to 2018 already in terms of new franchise opportunities.
And so Howard I think the bottom line is we are making the right investments and we are seeing the right results relative to these new franchises.
Maybe just to follow-up I want to make sure that you are not seeing the business becoming so competitive or changed the costs to -- I will call it to sustain your growth or to improve your position is becoming more costly or more risky? I am not seeing it any different in the past.
What I am seeing which is nice is I am seeing more opportunities in the last couple of years than I saw in the prior years.
So the bottom line is there is a lot of opportunities out there and we -- I would say had a pretty good crystal ball in making sure we made the right investments to be prepared to win those opportunities.
Thank you Tom.
Your next question comes from the line of Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
Good morning Hunter.
Good morning.
Maybe a little bit of a follow-up sort of contextually to Howard's question.
But we saw the German [indiscernible] obviously over Patriot last year and it sort of baked the question about your expectations for patriot over the next few years? And I was wondering if you could talk about that maybe in the context of how much you have invested into things like facilities and R&amp;D and headcount in anticipation of Patriot win? And would it require you to maybe get a little more aggressive on price in the event that you sort of need the volume to cover some of those investments that you have made in anticipation of the awards on Patriot specifically? Well I think on Patriot I think the investments have come through contracts and then the other capital investments that we have made the normal investments we make to essentially being able to operate our factory in a lean and efficient manner.
So that's -- I'll put that in context and let me put together the opportunities for Patriot in context.
There was just a recent announcement by the new Minister of Defense Macierewicz in Poland relative to his support of pursuing the Patriot program with the U.S.
government.
In fact he even kind of did a joint announcement with the U.S.
Ambassador to Poland on that subject with an objective to be able to get something going here this year.
So that's a really good news for us that's a very large potential program for Poland there.
And just as I mentioned earlier I just returned from the Middle East and there is strong demand for additional Patriot assets there.
I mentioned in my script a number of -- over 10 intercepts by Patriot against ballistic region just in that region of the Middle East.
So there is a strong demand across Eastern Europe and also the Middle East for additional Patriot assets but also for upgrade.
For example there is -- just in the upgrade area alone there is an opportunity to upgrade 72 fire units just to configuration of 3+.
So there is upgrade potentials and then there is also the new potentials for countries like Poland and adding additional fire units to other countries in the Middle East region.
And I am sure you are reading the newspapers the information that I am getting especially of all the Asia-Pacific activities that are going on.
In fact today there was an article relative to Fed in Korea where we also have just gotten an award on Patriot there too.
So the bottom line is there seems to be a significant demand out there across multiple areas Eastern Europe Asia-Pacific region and the Middle East for Missile Defense and Patriot is the System that's proven and is the system of choice for these nations.
That's where it stands.
And maybe Tom if you could since you mentioned can you maybe help us size the market opportunity for some of the retrofit work maybe for 360 degree radar.
Any context you can give us to sort of help think about it? Well you just [indiscernible] what I didn't mention so that's part of the upgrade activities also.
But there is definitely over $5 billion just on upgrades to configuration of 3 plus.
There is opportunities on the radars that are -- its in the billions of dollars there in terms of adding these 360 radars.
By the way that was one of the requests that I had in several of my meetings with key leaders in the Middle East.
It was a desire to have our new lease a 360 system added to their configurations.
So I think that's getting out there.
That capability is available and we are hearing -- getting demand signals from customers on that.
So the bottom line is is Patriot is a franchise.
We continue to evolve it we continue to upgrade it and increase it's capabilities add new technologies and its -- we are seeing increased demand across those three major areas of the world.
Again Eastern Europe Asia Pacific and also the Middle East.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So Tom I think you guys said you expect international to be 35% of bookings in 2016.
That suggests that really if you do 25.5 you do about $9 billion up from what looks like 8.7.
You have the Qatar award but other than that you don't seem to have as many identified large individual awards as you did in 2015.
Could you give us some more color of what would be driving that number that high? Well you mentioned one of them which was the Qatar EWR.
We also have international Patriot greater than $1 billion worth of bookings that are in play.
We have other activities in Qatar which we are pursuing and we believe are accessible this year.
There is a whole FMS in the area of AEGIS supporting Aegis Ashore and also upgrades on some ships in the international marketplace.
For those who don't know we do the Aegis radar and all the components and the subsystems for that radar.
That alone is for example over $300 million.
And then in the whole area of missiles both air-to-air and air-to-surface missiles a significant demand of greater than $3 billion across multiple missiles so there are multiple contracts.
There is no one contract and missiles that's going to do it but that's our portfolio.
We have a very diverse portfolio that allows us to add these systems.
International ISRO is over $700 million; and then we have our normal airborne radars and ISR EO/IR systems that's probably pretty close to $1 billion.
So I think what's different this year than others is we are seeing demand signals across our whole portfolio on the international side and you'd say why is that? While we mentioned before that we are changing our strategy.
About two years ago we went from a regional strategy to a country strategy and into that country strategy we focused not on the one or two customers we have had in the past 30 years but we expanded that and now we are seeing that.
But these other customers are buying that in the order of $500 million to $1 billion programs not just $2 billion program.
So bottom line is our portfolio which is diverse is now the first in international marketplace and that's -- these opportunities are coming across multiple of our products.
So Tom you have said that it takes three years to hit the margin sweet spot on five year Patriot contracts.
The turn time I would assume is going to be shorter missile programs and some of these other programs.
So should we start to see this later in 2016 in your margins or 2017? The non-Patriot programs? Cai it's Toby.
I will jump in on this one.
I think you'd really want to think about that out in 2017 and the other thing to keep in mind with our international missile programs they are essentially FMS and not direct commercial sales.
So while they -- relatively speaking have some incremental margin compared to our domestic business it is different than if it were a DCS type of sale.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning Tom and Toby.
Good morning Peter.
Tom I guess I have a question kind of an up tempo.
Its good to see your return to growth domestically in 2016 but we are also seeing a step-up in the op tempo in the Middle East and Raytheon's position is good as any in terms of a lot of the air-to-surface missiles and the ground support missiles that are being utilized.
I mean how does that impact Raytheon in terms of a bookings perspective? Do you see is it a big long lag effect or do you actually start to have those conversations? No.
We just went through that and the bottom line is we expect a range next year an increase in our international bookings.
Its going to be $8.5 billion to $9 billion range next year which is up from 2015.
So we are seeing that increased demand and its coming again across our whole portfolio not just Patriot.
I guess I was referring to the domestic activity in terms of the Army and Air Force spending a lot of what is the activity in ISIS etcetera? You will start to see.
That's part of the range growth we talked about on the domestic 2% to 4%.
Which is interesting we mentioned as we haven't grown domestically since 2009.
In 2016 we will see 2% to 4% growth and that's significant for us and its coming because of the op tempo internationally but also in the pent-up demand that the department has in refreshing a lot of their systems.
Including some new starts in the area of radars and other systems.
Okay.
Thank you for the clarity on that.
Thanks.
And Peter I think the way you can see that translate through if you look at the -- our missiles business right they had pretty good growth in 2015 as we started to see the effect of that and even better growth that we are guiding to for 2016.
So that's the start of the flowthrough from a revenue point of view of what Tom just talked about from a demand perspective.
Bottom line growing internationally we are growing domestically.
And that's pretty good.
Good to hear.
Okay.
I think we are going to have to leave it there.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter conference call in April.
Mark? Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.